tbmm-2016-05-05sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in two minutes' time. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The opening roll call didn't have enough meetings. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan, who wants to talk about Denizli industry. Here you are, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0002par0015	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have promised to make an assessment of the Denizli economy on the Denizli Industrial Chamber's Marine Industry General View Poll every year from this bench in 2016. I salute the grand jury. First of all, let's talk about the developments in 2015. The increase in energy costs marked 2015. The collections are still long. It's hard to meet targets in sales. The industrialists are still suffering from a one-third intensive financing problem. The most important reason is that customers fail to meet their obligations; the other is the height of their credit costs. 15 per cent of the industry has been warned to partially or entirely close the loan they've used over the past year or to raise collateral. The interest costs are still considerable, it is said. The bank is the financing source of 50 per cent industry; 20 per cent is EXIM; 17 per cent is easing. Of the 100 industrialists who renewed the loans, 40 have increased in interest. Of the 100 industrialists who said, "There are 60. There are those who say that the loss of value, the changes in the parite, had a negative effect on the industrialist. The low price of oil has not been cost-effective. The disturbances in the border neighborhood are hitting exports. The engine of the business has increased in textiles and composition. Of every 100 industrialists who say, "This is one of the lowest rates ever taken for the sector. Food sector expectations are bad in 2016 and the worst expectations in 2016 are in this sector. More than half the people who say production and new orders will be reduced. In 2015, about 43 per cent of the respondents had failed to reach 75 per cent capacity. In 2015, we will have access to it. The people who said "It's 50 percent," we'll have 75 percent capacity in 2016. The people who say "It's 54%." The cable has reduced production of 38 per cent of respondents in the copper wire sector in 2015, lower domestic sales in 2015, even though the orders have increased. 83 percent say energy costs have increased. ▪ Ham matter costs have increased. There is no limit to those who say so. 66% of the people who say they have a long time to think about it. Targets have been difficult to achieve in the last ten years. Customers can't fulfill their obligations. Loans in foreign currency are increasing. 41 per cent of the respondents did not invest, and 18 per cent of the new investors did not. Now, when we look at all this, we see that you're troubled. In the sea, we became tongs of the bankers. They don't use the loans they open, they get together and traffic gossip. It's very sensitive, we can't supply, we can't give away the goods. Turn off the credit. The banks say we can't reach the new one anyway, so what do they want to buy from us? - they want a guarantee. Bankruptcy delays have reached the limit. He's got 13 bankruptcy hearings since New Year's. Honestly, it's a problem. When we say these things, we say them with precision so that no one else gets hurt. In fact, in Denizli, indeed, there is a problem with bad checks; this is a real challenge. That's what the President of the Industrial Chamber has already told the national press. These bankruptcy delays, indeed, create chaos. In this case, people from every political party began to resort to this situation because they were really struggling with the economy. They wouldn't do that if the economy was good. He's doing it deliberately. It's a difficult thing to say, he's cheating. It's a very troubling thing to say. People are in trouble. Therefore, the economy is sensitive. Why? It's an incident that happened yesterday, and look how he's been playing in dollars, on the stock market for a few days. Thus, the economy is in a very delicate balance, troubled, and the sea exports are affected by it. What do we do, not just Denizli, but the immediate need for structural measures to be taken to ensure that the whole of Turkey is financially stable? We believe it's necessary. I also want to thank the industry room and the trading room that did this work. I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0003par0029	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. The second non-responsored statement belongs to Kopeli MP Ilyas Şeker, who wants to talk about investments among the world's people. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0004par0034	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to share with you a few investments in infrastructure among the world's people. As an EC PARTY, we have approved our 14th budget from 2002 to today. As in our 13 approved budget, we have divided our 14th budget into investments, not interest. In 2016, 50 per cent of the budget for the country's development, growth and the welfare of the citizen and 62 per cent of the taxes collected from the citizens were earmarked for investments. In 2002, $7.9 billion was earmarked for infrastructure investments, and in 2016 it was increased by 10 times to 80 billion euros. So in 2016, the lion's share of the budget moved back into investments. The AK PARTY government's trust and budget-separated infrastructure projects are among the world's most popular citizens, while everyone who is a citizen of the Republic of Turkey is also proud. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs were first quoted in 1860, in 1892, as saying, The AK PARTI, which Abdulhamit Khan called "Tünel-i Bahri" was built by the Marmaray Project, and connected the two continents with iron under the sea, also fulfilled the 100 and three years' dream of our practice. Another important project is the Eurasia Tunnel Project. As a brother to Marmaray, the Eurasia Tunnel was merged into a two-story tunnel under the sea, the continents of Asia and Europe for the first time. The Eurasia Tunnel is a total of 14.6 kilometers, 5.4 kilometers under the sea. It will help solve the intercontinental traffic problem, reducing a hundred minutes of transportation to 15 minutes. At the same time, the project is an internationally respected project. The Best Infrastructure Project Finance Agreement received awards for Best Innovative Transport Project. He also received the Best Environmental and Social Appliance Award for sustainability by the European Bank for Development and Development. Dear MPs, another important project I would like to share with you is the Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge. The Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, which will be completed later this year, is the world's largest bridge, the world's longest suspension bridge with the rail system, the world's tallest tower, and therefore the world's longest bridge with both the hangers and the slopes. Its feet, posture, and overall appearance are also architecturally among the most aesthetic bridges in the world. The Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge is also the first hanging bridge to be built by Turkish companies, all of which are among the first in the world. Dear MPs, another important project I would like to share with you is the necklace of the Bay of Izmit, Osman Gazi Bridge. Osman Gazi Bridge, the necklace of Izmit Bay of İstanbul-Izmir Highway, is a foot-long drawbridge of 1,550 metres. The Ottoman Vezi Bridge is among the first four in the world, which has this feature. The bridge, hopefully, will be launched within the month. We can count many more projects here: the third airport, the fast railroad, etcetera. All these projects show the power of the country. When we turn back, remembering that the Bolu Tunnel, which is 5.7km long, was built in a 14-year period of time, and 17 ministers, and even a large part during the AK PARTI rule, is a clear indication of where the Eurasia Tunnel, which is 4.6km long, ended in a short period of about three years, brought Turkey to its destination. Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our prime minister, Dr. Ahmet Davutoglu, thank you, our esteemed deputies, and all who have done so, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0005par0043	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Ardahan MP Ozturk Yilmaz (Ardahan) who wants to speak about Ardahan's problems. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0006par0048	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. Life is another challenge in our Ardahan province. Agriculture and livestock are the livelihoods of 80 percent of our people in the province. But imagine a county where it doesn't have a single factory; it's an animal and agriculture area; it doesn't have a pasteurized milk factory; it doesn't have a leather factory; it doesn't have a bait factory; it doesn't have a modern slaughterhouse. Unfortunately, our villages don't have proper roads, the villages are falling apart. Our villages don't have bowways, and there's no way out of what's happening. Except for the non-burning black coals that Social Aid distributes. The problems of our province are really heavy. We are a door to the Caucasus. Basically, there's a lot of potential if the possibilities are used very well, but we haven't seen that potential properly used since Ardahan was a province. We have a Baku-Tiflis-Kars railway, but this railroad passes by bypassing Ardahan. There is no plan for Ardahan. We've always called the government out of longing for an airport since we were a province, our people wanted an airport every election period, but an airport was never on the agenda, the government didn't put a grant on the budget. There is an airport in Kars, there is no need for Ardahan. It is also called Erzurum; there is an airport in Erzurum; if we go with this logic, there is no need for Kars. There is no need for Iğdır. There is no need for pain. We also see that there is no real plan for measures that will stimulate the city's economic potential and enable economic development. We have two border gates, Turkeye and Aktaş Border Gates. The roads to these border crossings are not suitable for proper truck traffic, I'm afraid there's no internal customs. When we look at traffic coming in, we need a thousand witnesses to call it a door. Our villager has loans. Unfortunately, our villager wants to take a step forward with the loans every time we go. Ardahan has been ill for a long time. I'm afraid the peasant is a victim, can't sell animals, is closed on animal markets. Thus, there was no regulation on the matter. There was no development in the tunnel linking Ardahan to Shavshat. It was said that the budget would always be put into the budget. It has been spoken of for about ten years, and still no dig has been shot. At this rate, Ardahan's population is waning every day. In 2004, the population of Ardahan (Ardahan) was 137, and today the population of Ardahan (Ardahan) has fallen to 94 thousand; there is an incredible migration. Unemployment is the main thing that triggers this migration. If this trend continues, in 2023, Ardahan (Ardahan)'s population drops to around 70,000. We will probably rejoice that Ardahan has remained a human being, and we will present it as a success. You know, in the long winter months, about six months, life in Ardahan is almost frozen, freezing, even wild animals escape. But our people are the caretakers and our people's livelihoods are getting narrower and narrower. Life is really hard in Ardahan. When we look at what can be done, no employment has been created. There is İSKÜR, İSKÜR is not doing it by choice, unfortunately a list is being created; it goes to ISKUR manager; it goes to the province of AK PARTI, not to the governor, but to the president of the EC PARTI; the head of the EC PARTI is doing a fair distribution in quotes. If, of a thousand people, we, by accident, have two CHPs on the list that have been overlooked, we see it as a success and we rejoice. We know it's like that in other cities. What are we supposed to do? We need to do an investment conference on Ardahan. We need to focus on the problems of the region. We need to run the incentives properly. Otherwise, as long as this migration continues, Ardahan will become a village, a village. Unfortunately, our serhat Ardahan, our city of Ardahan, will turn into a great village. I hereby salute you all.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0007par0063	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who have entered the electronic system and demanded a word. I'm starting the promise process. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0008par0069	Mr. President, thank you. The week we're in is Business Health and Occupational Safety Week. However, when we look at the reports, in business accidents, it shows that at least 168 workers lost their lives during April, and at least 586 workers lost their lives in the first four months of 2016. I'd like to stress in particular that in business accidents, there are no more accidents, no more business killings. In the early stages, Istanbul and Bursa, especially the large metropolises, are coming. Now, I'd like to ask the Minister of Labor what you do to prevent job killings, and if your measures in this matter are not enough, do you plan to take new measures, or do all the measures taken remain on paper? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0009par0073	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0010par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. One of the five young people in Turkey suffers from unemployment problems. Fourteen years of your power has failed to address the unemployment problem of our young people. In addition to all of this, we now have about 400,000 unemployed young people who have graduated from economics and administrative sciences, and that number increases with graduates every year. However, in the state, economics and administrative sciences are very few staff members for faculty. Therefore, it is urgent that the State Chief of Staff take short and medium-term measures to address the problems of these graduates, especially those who have been trained to serve in the public. In this context, universities must review their quotas, and public institutions must not place graduates from different departments in the staff that should be found by graduates of economics and administrative sciences. I think this matter needs to be resolved immediately. Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0011par0079	Mr. All...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0012par0081	Thank you, Mayor. On May 6, 1972, I honor Sea Gezdi and his friends, who were executed by the fascist junta. In recent days, apartment officials have made a press statement to address their problems. Doormen are laid off in many apartments recently due to increased insurance costs and individual warming. The apartments, which are an average of 10 to 12 apartments, are rent-a-visited to the janitorial service from the outside. For this reason, the district of Balıkesir is in a difficult situation, especially in the district of Bandırma. They want us to call and talk about their problems. Officials look at several apartments and serve them for rent. Most of them don't have insurance. I'd like to ask the government, are you going to make a new legal arrangement for the janitor's work? Do you think there's any government support at the insurance premiums? Do you plan to make it legal for the part-time insurance practice, which is to share insurance with a couple of apartment attendants? Do you have any work on this?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0013par0085	Mr. Tuncer...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0014par0087	Mr. President, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk stopped at the fountain at the Pinelibel Pass, the border of Tokat-Sivas on his way to Sivas at the beginning of the struggle for salvation. In 2004, the Ataturk Fountain was tasted by the Governorate of Tokat and the Governorate of Sivas and was served in its new form. I'd like to thank those who have served to rebuild the fountain in 2004. A week ago, when I stood in the fountain, I saw that the Ataturk Fountain had not flowed, and the granite had been torn out of the columns at the entrance, and the fountain area had been covered with garbage and turned into garbage. Officials who allowed the Ataturk Fountain, one of the symbols of the struggle for salvation, and did not perform necessary maintenance and repair, have misused the mandate. I'm reporting this to the judge. I also ask that the fountain be repaired as soon as possible in the name of Ataturk.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0013par0089	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0015par0091	Mr. President, the town of Niğde Yeşilgölçük had applied to the Ministry of Interior to become a district. So I gave the Home Office a written question motion. The Minister's response was a clear answer, "The issues expressed in the article will be assessed during the legislation and when the establishment of new districts comes to the agenda." However, Niğde is expected to become a town of some towns and the town of Sultanhani, Aksaray Province. Citizens are often expected to have a district on these issues, but it seems that the county's expectations are in vain because the legislation is not available. In this context, I don't think the answer is enough. Other responses from the Home Office in writing to our applications are not satisfactory either. I wish the answers given in this context were in context to meet the demands of lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0013par0092	Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0016par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, at the University of Bolu, where he went to summer, he had a trial in Bolu, where our brother Dillay Gül, who had been brutally murdered trying to get out of school and went to his home, we attended, and we found that women's murders were indiscriminate, and since the state did not carry out its responsibilities, our women are victims of these murders. On this occasion, I would like to ask once again for the immediate fulfillment of both physical conditions, street lighting, security measures, transportation problems, education problems, housing problems, and other deterrent punishments, and the necessary measures to be taken. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0017par0097	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0018par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. Last week, an attack was launched on the Yağmaklı Dam, located at the crossing point of the district of Giresun Doğankent and Güzelhane by terrorists. Our brother Adil Rose, the electrician, has been killed. We ask for God's mercy, and my condolences to his family and to my fellow citizens, and to the wounded, and to heal them quickly. And good luck to our security forces who are still involved in the ongoing operations. It's our expectation that the killers will be caught and punished as soon as possible. But with this attack, we realized how unguarded our dam was from the most strategic areas. Just like the other attacks, there seems to be a weakness of intelligence and security. I'm sure he said these attacks are coming. From here, the government and Home Secretary Efkan Ala ask, and I warn: with these actions, the terrorist organization has sent a message that it can infiltrate the Black Sea and its countryside and do an effective, sensational act. As a government, would you consider conducting a fail-safe and security study against this? You must relieve the anxiety of citizens in the Doğankent region of the dams.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0019par0102	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0020par0104	Mr. President, our farmers can't produce because of the wrong policies in an agricultural country, Turkey. Look, there is a deed to the Sindelhöyük neighbourhood of Develi district of Kayseri. However, this process has victimized my citizens. The land of the citizens has been moved out of the watering area. Our citizens have to invest between 40 and 50,000 liras to water it. How can our hard-earned farmers afford it and produce it without water? Our farmers complain that they are unable to deal with Forestry and Waterworks and the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. I'd like to thank you all for the immediate relief of our farmers.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0019par0105	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0021par0107	Thank you, Mayor. First of all, it's World Day of Midwives, and I'm celebrating the day of all the midwives. Mr. President, my question to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is: It's 2016, I'm afraid we have houses in many central villages and other district villages without electricity. These houses can't get electricity because they're unlicensed, because they're titled. Earlier, such houses were pardoned until 31/12/2012. Again, these houses that can't get electricity need to be organized with a new pardon, and in 2016, we need to make sure that these people, these citizens, can get electricity. I'd like to invite back the Department of Environment and Urbanism. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0022par0111	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0023par0113	The planned thermal plant between the Denizli Tavas Avdan neighbourhood, Kale Narlı neighbourhood is said to be being built. When will this plant be built? The area planned to build the thermal plant is located in the forest area of Denizli, and the coal mine that will feed this plant will work as an open business. Will you take the necessary measures for this operation to work without harming the forest and the environment? Two: it is too calcified and dirty to drink drinking water in Denizli Tavas district. At the centre of Tavas, the infrastructure reaches homes without insulation between the sewer and the drinking water line. In the event of any explosion, the drinking water and the sewers will be mixed. Are you going to take any precautions on that? Three: The sewage waste that reaches the settlements of Denizli Çal is mostly flowing to Menderes the Great. The district also plans to build a tunnel from the district of Lowerseyit to the site of the Masımımım of Çal.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0024par0118	Mr. Result...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0025par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. There is no longer a situation for our people in the province to put up with the circumstances they are in. 12 more rockets have been fired today, and the shop has closed its doors and is protesting the government's indifference. There is no solution to the situation in the Church by concealing the facts and showing less than the number of dead. We offer humanitarian aid to asylum seekers from Syria. Why do we want to crush the people of the Church? Soon there will be no Turkish people left in the church because as of now, the people are leaving the church. Mr. President, as Republic of Turkey, don't we have the power to protect our city, which has been under constant rocket attacks since New Year's? Let the concerned minister answer that question. How rational is it to hit mobile rocket launchers with obese cannons that can shoot at a fixed target? Why aren't our Turkish Air Force planes being used? The Turkish Armed Forces, NATO's 2nd largest armed forces, cannot protect the country...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0026par0124	Mr. Emir...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0027par0126	Mr. President, on May 6, 1972, I bow before the memories of Sea Gezmiş, Hüseyin İnan and Yusuf Aslan. One of the leaders of Turkey's revolutionary movement, which was slaughtered by the March 12th fascist junta. In those unlawful, extraordinary courts, the punishments for the executions on that day continue to bleed the hearts of everyone in Turkey today, including those who said yes. They have been tried for eliminating the Constitution, but today the Constitution has been massacred and violated repeatedly every day. Thus, their struggle on the path to Turkey, which is completely independent and exploitive, also sheds light on our struggle today, and we bow down to its memories and remember them.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0026par0127	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0028par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, Mr. Faruk Çelik. In recent weeks, I have submitted a motion to question the import of watermelons, but the issue is not in a position to wait for your reply urgently and in writing. In a few weeks, our dikurova farmers will harvest and release a large number of native watermelons, but still in the market, Iran and Africa are in great fear. What are you going to do to promote domestic production? Because, at this rate, year after year, local manufacturers will give up watermelon bread and the imported watermelon will dominate the market. Another question to Nabi Avcı (Nabi Avcı) is: According to official data, 96, 000 teachers may not be appointed in August in our country where they need them. Is it right to say that? To whom does the fate of over 400,000 young men who wait for the appointment depend? Are you trying to lead these young people to a very small-paying private sector? Opened in 2009...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0029par0134	Mr. Tin...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0030par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. The location is about the marine industry. There are bankruptcy delays in the marine industry, but I'd like to point out from here that, as in fact, they're postponing further bankruptcy. Therefore, for these reasons alone in the naval economy -- unfortunately -- I find it wrong for opposition lawmakers to consider the crisis to exist and use it. The latest survey of the outlook of our Industrial Chamber shows that our industrialists are looking forward to the future, and we see that the marine economy is among the top 10 provinces in Turkey's industry. By the way, according to the first three months' data, from the Exporters' Union, our exports have increased by 5 per cent. Again, when we look at the rate of employment, from 120,000 jobs in 14 years to 195 thousand workers...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0031par0140	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0032par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 5th of May, the Day of the Midwives, celebrating the Day of Midwives of all the midwives, and I want the work done faster to get rid of the problems of the midwives as soon as possible. Tomorrow we will experience the 44th year of the execution of our three seedlings, our revolutionaries fighting for the full independence of Turkey. And I bow before the sea, and before the LORD, and before the LORD, and before the son of Aslan. There are bailiffs, Mr. President, especially a large portion of the bailiffs serve in the class of auxiliary services. These are assistants in civil courts while the military courts are in administrative services. Their rights and many rights have not been granted. I demand that the Justice Department and the relevant government make an attempt to resolve this discrimination. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0033par0147	Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who are demanding a word. Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0034par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're going through a very important process. Parliament is bringing up the very important laws, as we consider the state of the government and the Prime Minister, as 25 million in private today as we consider the laws that will affect the lives of workers, workers, workers. So the fall of the government, the statements made to the Prime Minister... along with these, we're trying to pass a law in Parliament. In fact, we've said these things before, and as HDP, we've been predicting them. So the Prime Minister, who stated that he was elected by the will of the people, came up with 49.5% of the vote -- which he is -- faced today with the coup d'état. We've told that to the Prime Minister before. Today, if we had stated that there had been a coup in the country, in the war, in the November 1st elections, then -- the palace coup -- today is the same coup against the Prime Minister, and we are now facing the blow of the palace. Why was the June 7th election renewed? Because this process would not have been taken through the coalition. In a six-month period, power even struck its own power, and although the palace had no legal rights, there is a palace power that intervenes until the internal functioning of the party and the Prime Minister's authority and until Parliament. We've said this before. Mr. Davutoglu has made statements that he will be leaving today. But let's just say that it's not the will of the people, it's the will of the court today on the agenda of Turkey and the coup of the palace...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0033par0153	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0034par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey currently has a coup on the government of the palace and a coup on the Prime Minister. We've said it before, and we've said it over and over again, and we've warned it. We were right about what we said as the People's Democratic Party because we saw the coup of the palace during June 7th. The same coup that took place on November 1st has now struck the public, and has now struck the government and the Prime Minister. He said, war is growing, war is rising. The crisis is increasing, the rise of the dollar in one day has devastated economic stability. Again, the concept of war, the concept of war against the people in Kurdish provinces, is so. Bombs fall on the church every day. I mean, it's a crisis-run power. This is also reflected in Parliament. That's what I wanted to express. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0035par0157	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0036par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. In these critical times and processes that we've been through, there seems to be a breakdown in political climate conditions, a solution in socioeconomic structure, and a confusion in the state system that quickly stimulates the dynamics that will make Turkey even more difficult. Our country is being driven towards an unpronounced, unconfirmed, multidimensional crisis vortex, into a instability. The reality of this surge in politics, the contamination and bleeding that involved politics, is in fact an external-source project, and planning is also in effect. While terrorism is increasing its violent dosage, Turkey's national and historical resistance is also trying to stretch and break. In this framework, we think we should keep some of the basic structural problems our country is involved in out of focus. For example, when we look at unemployment, the unemployment rate that the TÜİK (TİK) explains is now 11.1 per cent. The number of unemployed is 3 million 290,000 as of January. At the end of 2015, the number of insured employees with 14 million dropped to 13 million, 575 thousand in February, and the number of tradesmen dropped from 2 million 833,000 to 2,780,000. The increase in unemployment allowance is 42 per cent in March. Our country has major issues such as terrorism and security, but social trauma, such as unemployment, should not be neglected.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0037par0165	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0036par0166	Although an inflation rate of 6.57 is attempted to be positive, it is not caused by any structural arrangement, and the alarm bells continue for the future. It's World Midwives Day. A midwife is one of the oldest and most respected professions in the world. I'm sorry to say that midwives don't get the attention and support they deserve in our country. The midwives work at a very busy work pace in our country. In 2015, 1 million 325,783 births took place. In love with self - sacrificing service, midwives face problems in their professional lives and expect to be organised in the expiration portion of the midwives and pensions. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Under the name of surrogacy, labour models such as non-public family health workers need to be resolved as well as the problems of those who work at a low and unsecured wage. I hereby celebrate the week of the midwives. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0038par0171	Thank you. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0039par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. And we, the Republican People's Party, as the Grand National Assembly Group of Turkey, present our respects to all of our midwives, as well as our debt of heart and loyalty to them as starting today, and wish them health, happiness, and success in their future lives, in their work and in their professional lives, in their personal lives; we express our gratitude to them. Mr. President, tomorrow is May 6th; May 6, 1972, just as it was September 17, 1961, the black days of Turkish democracy, its tainted days, its shameful days, like December 13, 1980. As a result of the execution's interference in the judiciary, on May 6th, we remember Deniz Gezmiş, Yusuf Aslan, and Hüseyin İnan, who asked only and only a fully independent Turkey, who was taken to the execution table without bleeding anyone's nose. They wanted only one free, the state democratic, the community organised, a beautiful Turkey; they paid for it with their lives. Both Menderes and his friends, who were executed on May 27th, were executed on May 6, and his friends, Erdal Eren, who had been executed on September 12th by a growing age, and I would like to underline on this occasion that all of these political executions would be the greatest, greatest shame in Turkey for years to come.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0040par0179	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0039par0180	While we wish for the end of political interference in the judiciary, we also wish that everyone, everyone, respect and respect the principle of separation of forces in Turkey as part of the parliamentary system. Once again, we confirm and underline that we are opposed to the soldier's hide and the civilian way, to any kind of coup and custody. On this occasion, our Hatay MP has just stated that we would like to ask the Foreign Minister to inform the Grand National Assembly immediately of what happened in the Church. The bomb doesn't fall on the church, the missile doesn't fall; it's being bombed, it's being bombed. I'm also ashamed that the Turkish Grand National Assembly will be watching this situation. I invite all political parties to be sensitive about this. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0041par0183	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0042par0186	Mr. President, thank you. In the November 1st election, we can understand the political thrill of the AK PARTY, which received 49.5 per cent of the vote, going to an early congress in May. The congress of a party that alone is in power will, of course, create a thrill in every region. But, for the first time in Turkey, parties don't go to the extraordinary convention. There are examples of the classics. There is no political instability or crisis; the usual processes operate in legal, legitimate processes. Our Prime Minister is a man who has served the country with honor for many years, and always will be. And, of course, there are environments that expect instability and crisis because of what happened, and we know that. And their desires will remain [in] them. The convention of the AK PARTY is happening -- it's the internal processes of the parties -- and we'll see what happens as a result of that. It's all happening in a transparent way in the political process, and the public is informed about these issues. Right now, there's no such thing as instability. It's just that, in the light of a single ruling party going to an extraordinary convention, there has been a lot of controversy, a measure of movement in the economy. We have no doubt that these will soon be seated. Because the material, concrete conditions that will cause a crisis do not exist in Turkey's politics.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0041par0189	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0042par0190	The AK PARTY is still in power on its own. There is no political development to cause instability. THE most fundamental issue where each member of the EC PARTY is sensitive is the unity of the country, the nation, stability, and the progress of this country. With this precision, our citizens can be sure that all processes will be experienced. I'd like to make sure that the concerned environments are also safe. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0041par0192	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The chairman of the delegation led by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Ismail Kahraman, heads of the Indonesian House of Representatives, Dr. H. Ade Komarudin, President of the New Zealand House of Representatives, David Carter and Singapore Parliament President Halimah Yacob received the invitations, along with a parliamentary delegation from 4 May to 14 May 2016, to make official visits to Indonesia, New Zealand and Singapore, in the 3/5/2016th and 84th edition of the Grand National Assembly. Under Article 2 of the Law, the names reported by political party groups to form our delegation are submitted to the information of the General Assembly. [[Aksaray]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Bolu]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] 5) Ahmet Hamdi Çamlı [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 7) Mihrimah Belma Line [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 9) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[Mughle]] It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 12/11/2012, special administrations, county general councils and villages have been removed from the districts of 13 provinces, which were adopted at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and were published on 06/12/12/2012 in the Official Gazette. About 1,600 town halls, more than 16,000 villages, 30 districts of the province's private administration and the corporate personality of the city's general parliaments have been removed. The closed municipalities and villages have been transformed into the neighborhoods of their districts. The law extends the service limit of the city's municipalities to the province's property management limits. As his law began to apply, problems and ambiguities began to emerge. There may be debates, particularly in areas of the capital city, whether some services will be provided by the district municipality or by the city municipality. The mayor may co-operate with his party's municipal municipalities, but he cannot co-operate with the mayor who does not belong to his party. For this reason, in many counties, the people may be deprived of certain municipal services. For example, Balıkesir Metropolitan Municipality, Balıkesir Water and Sewering Administration (BASKI), which is producing services, refrains from providing maintenance, repair and cleaning services in these areas, claiming that the sewage and rainwater systems in particular are not their responsibility. These and other situations cause our people to be victims. The village that has turned into many neighborhoods is surprised at which municipality it will apply to to repair and maintain its broken roads, water that does not flow. The municipality is directed to the city's municipality, and the city's municipality is directed to the municipality. Since the ministry is usually given priority to the municipality's residential centers, remote neighborhoods may be deprived of municipal services and may have trouble meeting public service needs, which have also been found to have been removed from the province's private administrations. Neighborhoods in the service area of the Metropolitan City municipality have increased expectations after the law. Every neighborhood has roads, water, sewers and so on. They've entered the expectation that the investments will be done immediately. However, services to remote neighborhoods, villages under its former name are determined, not according to the urgency of the need, but based on the relationship and intimacy set up with the mayor. With the Law, the country population was reduced by more than 50 per cent in one day. Of course, this reduction is a reduction from an administrative definition. The rural population hasn't really changed. The lives of our people who live there have not changed for the time being. However, in the coming years, it is known that there will be serious problems around here. Villages included in the Metropolitan borders will face new costs, with participation in drinking water, waste drains, infrastructure investments and so on, or other names. In addition to the 7th Article of Metropolitan Municipality Law No. 6360, the city and its municipalities have been tasked with all kinds of activities in support of agriculture and animalism. The works of the Ministry of Food Agriculture and Animalism, which serve on a central level for the development of agriculture and animalism, and the studies of municipalities on this subject are observed. In order to prevent waste of public resources and efficient use of resources, the conflict of duty on this issue also arises as a separate problem. In the implementation of municipal services in the implementation of the Law and Law Code, we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution shall be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to identify issues in the area of authority, duty and responsibility between the city municipalities and district municipalities, in order to develop proposals for solutions in this regard. [[Balıkesir]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] [[Ankara]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Manisa]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Adana]] 11) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] [[Tripoli]] [[Slap]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mersin]] 16) Ahmet Haluk Koç [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Isparta]] [[İzmir]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In terms of declarations on workers' union rights and freedoms, union confederations are of great importance to the general boards, and there are signals regarding the functioning of trade unions. The rights mentioned at the 22nd General Assembly of Turkey-İSK have been replaced by praising the President. In his speech, the Minister of Labour and Social Security described the 1961 Constitution as the spirit of marriage, which first established the rights of workers on constitutional grounds, and did not mention the importance of unionisation or the struggle for labour rights. This conversation ended with applause in the general assembly. What happened brought to mind trade union-industrial interests, making it necessary to examine the functions and structures of trade unions. In an effort to investigate trade unions' relations with power, identify the personal connections of the boards of directors, remove obstacles to the fight for labour rights of all trade unions, I propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, 98th, TEMMM Institution. [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] 2) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] 7) Ahmet Tuncay Özkan [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Isparta]] [[İzmir]] 12) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Kayseri]] 15) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sivas]] 19) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[Scholarship]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Sakarya]] It was founded on July 31, 1952. On the day of its establishment, the Fifth Amendment of the Law on Labour and Employers Unions and Union Union Unions, which was adopted in 1947, was valid, and, as the clause clearly states, no trade union could function with politics, political propaganda and political broadcasting at the time in which it was established, and could not be involved in the activities of any political organization. Moreover, Turkish-government adopted this clause so that at the same time, Turkish-government was banned from taking office in political parties by its authors. However, with the changing political climate and the organisational power of trade unions, Turkish-İsti also gained broad freedoms in political activities. There is no doubt that it is not a problem for trade unions to engage in political activities in terms of labour rights and the voice of demands on this issue. Turkey's first major confederation, the 22nd General Assembly of TÜRK-İSK-İS, occurred in an environment where it was forgotten that the essence of trade unionism came from a class struggle, that the workers' rights and interests were based on the defence of their rights and interests. The General Assembly has become a tribute to Recep Tayyip Ergun Ergun Erdoğan through Minister of Labour and Social Security Süleyman Soylu and Turkish-İK President Ergun Atalalay. In his noble speech, Solomon was not limited to praise of Erdogan, but the spirit of marriage of the 1961 Constitution was sadly above our country." He used the sentence himself. On 3 December 2015, a minister in Turkey described the 1961 Constitution, which held 33 unions under its roof, the country's largest labour unions' general council, the right to unionisation and collective bargaining rights for workers as a constitutional right to strike and unionize civil servants. We know that in the failed years of the economy in capitalist systems, in crises, in recession, when the cost should be reduced, the bosses always go into the employee's pocket, or the boss takes the worker's job. It is possible that for many years, Turkey-İs who have faced these problems and have made many gains, the government or the bosses today are trying to resolve the problems of workers in dialogue. However, instead of discussing these problems in a labour board, it is against the trade unionist tradition to praise the President, and it is impossible for the ruling union administration not to bring the interests of the Union to the mind. In an effort to investigate trade unions' relations with the current power, identify their personal connections to power, investigate whether they still embrace their labor rights and freedoms, the most important factor in the discovery of unions, and remove obstacles to the rights of workers of trade unions, I propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution shall be carried out. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The natural habitat of wild boars is forests, and maintaining natural balance and ecosystems keeps wild animals in natural habitats. Wolves, coyotes, and foxes, who are natural enemies of wild boars, are shrinking due to unconscious hunting and poor wildlife protection measures. This causes wild boars, whose population cannot be controlled, to begin to feed in crop fields. In addition to the hunting season set by the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs, the problem of our farmers has been tried to solve, but has not been offered a permanent solution so far. Across the country, there is no specific allowance for the losses caused by farmers in agricultural areas. This makes it difficult to solve the problem, showing that the farmer is unable to receive government support in this regard. In order to control unconscious hunting, to restore the damaged ecological balance with human hands, to be transformed into wildlife protection, long-term wildlife habitats, to protect farmers and their hard work, and to show that agricultural production has been taken care of and that agriculture has been supported, I propose that a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution be opened under the 98th, TBMM Administration, 104th and 105th Articles of the Constitution. [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] 2) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] 7) Ahmet Tuncay Özkan [[İzmir]] [[Isparta]] [[İzmir]] 10) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sivas]] 18) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[Scholarship]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Sakarya]] Today in Turkey, we face different species of animals that have become extinct because of the inability to transform farmland into wildlife-friendly habitats, the lack of natural balance, the lack of protection of wildlife and agriculture, and start to land in cities, leaving their natural habitats. In recent years, we can examine wild boars and foxes as an important example of this problem, as wolves, coyotes, and foxes, whose populations have become less and more domesticated. The wild boar's greatest enemies in nature are wolves, coyotes, foxes. However, the number of wolves, foxes, and coyote species in Turkey is dwindling day after day as a result of unsupervised, unconscious and unnecessary hunting. This decrease has accelerated the number of wild boars, disrupted the natural balance, causing wild boars to land in their own habitats and land on farmland. Furthermore, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs does not have a study of tracking populations of animals such as wolves, coyotes, and foxes. In addition to the scheduled hunting season, which has been presented as a solution, it is not possible to find a permanent solution, although it is a last-minute act of trying to resolve the problem our farmers face by providing a Protective Huntership Document for overgrowing the population of boars. Again, this gives the wrong impression that it is possible to achieve natural balance with more hunting. Our farmers, who have had to deal with the problem in an individual way, take various measures, such as converting their farmland with electrical wire. However, these measures pose a danger to other creatures and humans, as well as their extravagance. As a result of TÜİK's September 2015 survey, agriculture at the head of the major sectors of our economy has been observed to have a value of up to $30 billion, 369m in current prices. It is also important to remember that agriculture provides raw materials to many sectors, including food industry, textiles. Again, 19 per cent of Turkey's population is employed in the agricultural sector, according to TİK data in 2015. In addition to the information provided above, a parliamentary study must be launched in the long run, so that the producer and consumer's problems can be assessed, the ecological balance damaged by study and neglect of wildlife can be restored, unconscious and unnecessary hunting can be controlled, and long-term agricultural land can be transformed into wildlife-friendly habitats. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take their place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0043par0405	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0041par0406	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0043par0407	Mr. President, we just told you about us. The government's wing is pleasant, the government has no government -- we haven't received an answer in Parliament. We care about the Church, we find it serious, we perceive it as an external threat. Therefore, we insist that the Secretary of State -- this is Parliament -- not the State Secretary of Defense -- inform the Parliament today. For the record, it's yours.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0041par0409	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0044par0410	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0041par0411	There's a motion for a gene. The motion has been suppressed and distributed to the members today. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to TÜİK data, during the current civil war in Syria, the trade was cut off at the time when Cerablus and Tel Abyad (Gire Spi) were in possession of the terrorist organization ISIS, when our country had a large amount of trade from customs containers to these cities, when Tel Abyad was released from ISIS control and took control of the YPG. On the other hand, according to the balance of payments, the country received an unexplainable amount of funding in 2015, which was the size of $9.7 billion in luggage trade, registration error and so on. The international agency GFI also documented that an estimated $15.5 billion a year was illegally exported from Turkey in the 2004-2013 period, in the way that import bills were cut from high prices or that export prices were billed low. Due to this data, Turkey's alleged involvement in the import and export relationship with the terrorist organisation ISIS, which shows that the need for funding for investments has escaped, we propose that the Constitution be opened under Article 106 of the 98th and 99th Constitution on Mr Mustafa Elitaş. HDP Group Vice President HDP Group Vice President According to TÜİK data, the volume of the trade from Karkamis Border Gate to the region from July 2013 until December 2014, when Cerablus entered ISIS control was $4,77,000. Again, the volume of the trade from Akchakale Border Gate to the region is $6,481,000 from January 2014 to June 2015, when control reached the YPG, when Tel Abyad entered ISIS control. The trade in question stopped completely, as Tel Abyad took control of the PYD. Mr. Secretary said that the $334,000 was sent by the Kızılay, but the remaining amount was unaccounted for. Another data the Minister cannot explain is a net deficit of $9.7 billion in net error in the 2015 balance of payments. As it is known, the balance of payments is the data that illustrates the balance of currency spending and foreign currency revenues in the country. According to this, if your exports can't afford your imports, then you have a current deficit, and you have to be able to finance this deficit with external financial assets that enter the country or with currency reserves that you have, so the balance of payments has to be logically zero. But it doesn't really happen like that, and there's a little bit of an opening. Small-scale commercial transactions (ball trade, labour exchanges, etc.) that do not record this gap. Or it's supposed to be caused by a recording error, which is accounted for as "net error missing." The 2015 current deficit was $32.2 billion, and only $10.7 billion in financing of the deficit was available, and $11.8 billion was exhausted. This points to an unknown cash intake of $9.7 billion under the net error and missing pen. The way it's reflected in the media, Mr. Secretary, this opening could be "Bavul trade." It has tried to explain, however, that there has been an unexplainable flow of funds, four times greater than the sum of clear errors and missing numbers in the last three years. In addition, an international agency called Global Financial Integration (GFI) presents how large capital outputs in illegal forms from Turkey have been and has been increasing for the past decade in a report entitled "Illicit Financial Flowers From Development Countries." Turkey is ranked 12th among the 149 countries surveyed and the first 20 countries to raise the most funds. According to the report, an illegal amount of money from Turkey in 2004-2013 was estimated at $15.5 billion a year, or $15.5 billion a year, in the form of lower billing export costs or cutting import bills from far above the cost of goods. That's $26 billion for 2013, which is one third of the current deficit. These data reveal situations and claims that need explanations. The architect of this whole negative picture is the AKP's insistence on its bankrupting understanding of foreign policy and domestic policy. Due to relations with neighbouring countries, the collapse of exports, the decline of tourism revenues, the real impact of economic data on social life raises great concerns about economic progress, particularly the trade with Russia. Therefore, we believe it is necessary for Mr Mustafa Elitaş to be in charge, whose primary duty is to regulate and coordinate the implementation of foreign trade policies, to open a gene and be removed from his post according to the Constitution and Internal Charter provisions. It has been presented to your knowledge. The day of the meeting on whether or not your client will be on the agenda will then be submitted to your votes by the Council of Counsellor's recommendation. The National Party of Action has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Thursday/5/2016, I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. It has been suggested that our motion to open a parliamentary investigation into the agenda of Turkey's Grand National Assembly to determine the measures that should be taken under the scope of the increase in health expenditure of our citizens, which is the main number 10/169) of Antalya MP Ahmet Selim Yurdakul and his friends, in the section of General Assembly's General Assembly's Review and Assembly Review, will be read today (today) in the General Assembly (today). In favour of the proposal, the first speaker is Ahmet Selim Yurdakul, Antalya MP. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0045par0447	Mr. President, dear MPs, esteemed citizens, first of all, we sincerely celebrate May 5th Day. Health care for global investors and capital is a large market. The size of the healthcare sector in our country is now around 67 billion dollars and is increasing. It's estimated that in 2023, it would be around 160-170 billion dollars. As a result of the AKP government's Health Transformation Programme, Turkish citizens are no longer able to serve in health without spending money out of their pockets. I'm sorry to say we're entering a major social swamp phase. The number of citizens living on minimum wage in Turkey is approximately 4 million 978 thousand and their salary is around 1,300 lira. Yesterday's hunger limit, I'm afraid, is $1.492. 23.3 million of our citizens were forced to live their lives because of lack of money and 11.1 million because of constant poverty. However, our 11 million, 200,000 pensioners had to live on a salary of approximately 1,000 to 1,500 liras. Many of our pensioners, unfortunately, were forced to work on additional jobs to survive in a time when they needed to breathe. If you want to reach health care for these people, you must pay them in your pockets. A health system called the AKP has been brought into our country. Unfortunately, from now on, we have to live in a country where citizens lose their lives at home because they don't have enough money, end their lives late because they're diagnosed or have side effects and complications. The responsibility for all of this is the AKP government implementing the health system that global powers and capital requires. The AKP government sees the Turkish health system and our Turkish citizens as a cow to be nursed, and by milking our citizens at every opportunity, it has unfortunately bankrupted the social state system in our country. In order to say that a health policy is successful in a country, we must first protect our citizen from financial risk, so our citizen must not spend money on health care. Come on, did the AKP government actually do that? About six years after the Health Transformation Programme, which they applied in 2003, our citizen paid $8.1 billion out of his pocket. So, what happened in 2015? In 2015, our citizen paid about $20 billion out of his pocket. Do you know how much this old money costs, my citizens? That's 20 quadrillion dollars. So, how does this work? Before our citizen gets to the hospital, he starts paying for an appointment on the phone. However, money for an examination, money for an early examination, again, if you are to be examined by a teacher or a specialist, you deposit a separate amount of money or study money, firstly study money. You're going to have surgery, you're paying a separate fee for the surgical supplies. Wait, it's not over; money for prescriptions, money for medicine, money for equivalent, money for three boxes of drugs, money again. That's not enough. If you've been to a private hospital, you're paying an additional 200 percent. Here's the policy of the health-determination programme, which the AKP government has implemented. Well, is that enough? No. You know, when our health minister said that I was going to take away that knife money. Now, if a citizen goes to a public hospital or university hospital and gets checked out with a specialist or a teacher, he pays a hundred lira immediately. If there is to be an operation or a study, he is investing between $1,000 and $5,000 in additional contributions. Well, what about the money for the knife? The AKP government, I thought you were going to provide that. So, what's our non-moneyless citizen gonna do if he wants to operate on the teacher, the specialist, and he can't find the money? Please come out and answer this question from here. Don't fool people and operate on perception. Oh, my dear citizens, is that enough? No. You know what they do in addition to that? You know, they're insuranceing cars, like this one, and now -- you know, they've gone up -- get a complete insurance policy, all your money will be covered by us -- so, you know, the social government, we were a very rich country, you know? So why don't you supply these to citizens who can't afford them, who can't pay for them? So, I'm asking you now: Why are you taking bonuses from our citizens under the name of general health insurance? As usual, you're making citizens pay for your failure. In order to cover your social security deficits, you created a structure called general health insurance, and today, unfortunately, 2.8 million people are out of your social security system. Our 4.6 million citizens will not receive health care as of June 30th. Why don't you say that? You already know that the system doesn't work and it doesn't work. First you create an injustice, and then you act like the ruling party that solves this injustice. You've supposedly forgiven the bonuses of teenagers under 25 years of age. May God give you a conscience.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0046par0459	Why? Haven't we?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0045par0460	Despite being unemployed, be ashamed of the nightmare you've caused our citizens and their families, who you've been attacking to get the general health insurance premium. Right now, the general health insurance debt is $11 billion. Here he is, here's the President of our Commission. If I'm saying it wrong, get him out of here and make a statement.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0046par0461	He will, he will.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0045par0462	The debt of 2.9 million people is 6.5 billion dollars, and you're still bragging about it. I'm telling you from here, we're going to eliminate all the unlawfulities and sacrifices you've created. As the National Movement Party, I hereby state to the citizens our leader that we will eliminate all contributions and additional payments taken. AKP Government, you are at the beginning of the end. You won't be able to hump the Turkish nation any longer. What would happen if they took their share of the contribution, Mr. Deputy? You may ask a question. My dear citizens, 615 million examinations were conducted in 2015. Consider the contributions taken from these; I do not yet tell you about the studies, the surgeries. Although we are a young population due to the provoked health demand, a person unfortunately goes to a doctor 8.3 times a year. Do you know what the system does? Here's the provoked health demand, the money demanded from citizens and the performance system brought in by the AKP government, unfortunately, which disrupts domestic peace. You say to the doctor: "The more sick you are, the more money you study, the more money you are." Well, do you know what happens when you do these things? There are delays in diagnostics, complications arise, Mr. President. Well, you know what happens then? These complications are causing our patients to lose their lives, not enough treatment for our citizens. So, how much is the medical expense that you've made despite all of this? I'm giving you the number of the state, $103 billion in 2015, and unfortunately, what's the deficit of the Social Security Agency right now? $18 billion. How much did you guys pay in the government in 13 years to cover for Social Security? That's 601 billion dollars, that's 601 quadrillion dollars in old money. That's what you do with money. Well, here you are, the total number of countries is 187. What number are we on the health index here, Mr. President? Unfortunately, we're 69, and you're bragging! The more money, the more health care you brought in, I'm afraid. We, the National Movement Party, will bring together an ideal health care system that pleases health workers and citizens and gives priority to protective health care with our family physicians, prioritizes education and RD work, and takes care of all the relevant parties in each decision to make and obtain their opinion and approval. At that time, there would be a health system that would suit the Turkish nation. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0047par0469	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. Against the proposal, Siegel Yiğitalp, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0048par0473	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the MHP Group on the rise of health expenditures from citizens' pockets and the proposal for research on the social and economic consequences of this increase. It is the right of all people to access and take advantage of services such as health, social services and social security, and that right is no longer right when you receive these services personally, by paying the price, because rights are the values that you have achieved for free, without paying the price. Social security, on the other hand, is a social issue, and it's clear how social security can be achieved as a result of more and more people being excluded from this area. Health services in Turkey have been commercialized, health care has become a Rant area, and health care as well as money has been activated. When the AKP government comes to power, there will be no waiting in the SGK queues for health care. ▪ Everyone can go to any hospital they want. However, it has become increasingly evident that these promises are a huge lie. However, the health damage has been forced to survive by anyone who is on their way to the hospital. That's right, no one's being held hostage at the hospital anymore because they can only go to the hospital with the money, other than that, they can only get as much health care as they can with very limited and very low wages. When citizens apply to the hospital for treatment, their taxes and premiums are not enough, and they have to pay on their cell phones under different names. The health and social security area has been shaped over the needs and constraints of global capital for years, rather than Turkey's unique social needs. According to the health expenses paid by the citizen's pocket, a citizen must pay 16 pencils in his pocket to receive health care. First, the participation in the examination: those who are covered by general health insurance and those who are obliged to take care of health care must pay $5 in public and university hospitals and 12 lira in attendance in private hospitals in order to benefit from health care. While this is being cut from pensions, employees and general health insurance pay through pharmacies. Minister of Health Mehmet Müezzinoğlu, at a ceremony attended at Yıldırım Akıt University Medical School on December 16, 2015, do you intend to remove a parent's contribution from the muayene? There is no need to remove the added contribution to the question, but there is no need. Because he didn't pay out of his own pocket. Second, additional fee, special hospital difference fee: the additional fee from the colleges of the foundation and private hospitals who have signed with the SGK is from patients applying to them. In these payments, health care is paid extra on all processing costs. With this recent change, the additional fee to be paid by private hospitals is up to 200 per cent. Thirdly, general health insurance premium: starting on 1 January 2012, a general health insurance premium was required for anyone without social security. If it's not insured at a workplace, it needs to be tested for income. As income testing is conducted, individual revenues are not being moved through; households are found and divided into the number of people living within the household. The price set in the income test must be paid each month to benefit from health care. Those who have not paid the premium and those they are obliged to care for are unable to use general health services. With a minimum wage increase, general health insurance premiums have been raised, and those who paid 50 lira premiums last year will pay $65 this year, $152 this year, $197 and $305 will pay $395. The difference is the fee for the awareness of studies not paid by the SGK. There's also a primary examination fee, extra charge for a line-of-view study. A green field examination is a fee if they come to the emergency room because they are unable to pay for treatment in public hospitals and who have not paid the general health insurance premium. Exceptional health care fees, paid for special methods used. For these services, general health insurance providers must pay an additional fee, not to exceed three times the cost of transactions at the Health Applied Service (STUT). If patients in the situation have been treated in bed, all their expenses are collected from them at the point where they are discharged. In complementary health insurance, certain health care services are either excluded by the SGK or a lesser amount of the cost of the service is covered by general health insurance. All expenses not covered by the SGK can be obtained by complementary health insurance. Which means health insurance, which is private health insurance. It's a practice that's been -- it's been -- it's been -- it's been a lot -- it's caused by astronomical numbers, and it's been really pushing people's budgets. Besides, there's a phone dating situation. In order to make an appointment, you search for 182, and when you call from 182, you pay 46 cents a minute for the conversation, and if you have had a conversation with Turkish TELEKOM, you pay a difference between 7 and 15 cents a day. So, every transaction you take, every transaction you do, it's an extra cost, extra money, a budget that comes out of a citizen's pocket. Mr. President, it is estimated that in 2014 citizens' health expenditures from their own pockets increased by 18.8 per cent compared to last year to $16 billion,819m, and this year's pocket expenditures will reach 20 per cent. Cell health costs have increased almost twice in the last six years. The reason for this increase is that AKP is looking at health privatisation efforts and health as a market, and the patient as a customer, and it seems that health is entirely sought for privatisation. 25 per cent of the government's support for individual health insurance is also a symptom. Asking millions of citizens living below the poverty and even the hunger limit to pay their health expenses in a pocket means that you can clearly live if you have money. Of course, in addition, if you want to be examined again after you pay for your examination, you'll also pay $5 for an early examination. You pay for drug participation with him, you go to the pharmacy and pay the pharmacists. This is 10% for pensioners and 20% for employees. There's a prescription fee and an additional amount of medicine, which is $3 and $1, you have to pay almost as much per tablet per box as you get. If you don't take medicine over the procedure, if you want to take it off yourself, you're paying him an extra 15%. There's a base price app, too, you know. I mean, in chronic diseases such as asthma, diabetes, heart disease, with the arrangement brought in, there are about 200 different kinds of drugs that have been used to put a base price on them. For these drugs, the government pays the price of the cheapest drug on the market. You're paying extra if you're interested in taking part. There's medical equipment participation. This must be paid for medical supplies, oral prosthetics, other prosthetics and orthesis, which are not stated to be vital in the medical report. The rate is 10 per cent for employees and 20 per cent for employees because they are retired and obliged to take care of it. The amount of participation must not exceed 75 per cent of the gross minimum wage on the date of non-body prosthetics or orthotheses, so the person must pay from his own pocket as soon as 75 per cent passes. And there's a raise to those in general health insurance premium debt. People over 18 who have not paid their premiums in general health insurance have to pay medical fees in order to be examined in public hospitals, and if they don't pay, they can't get a physical. The fee increased by 100 per cent in August 2014 from $15 to $30. In addition, patients have to pay their contribution if the doctor asks for a study. In the marketing process, the AKP, when you look at it, is trying to attract the health and social security area for national and international capital by transferring more resources to the health field than before and provoking the demand. In 2016, a total of 25 billion, 574 million, 269 thousand liras were earmarked for the Ministry of Health and its subsidiaries. This number corresponds to 4 per cent of the total budget. The budget for war is 37 billion dollars higher than the health budget. Since it is adopted as a form of financing based on commercial logic in the field of public health, it is not possible to read as a positive improvement in health-related money. Dear President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all by saying that the presentation of health and social services should be qualified, accessible, equal and broke.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0049par0497	Thank you, Mr. Heroalp. In favor of the proposal, Mustafa Akadil, Antalya MP. Here you are, Mr. Akaydun.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0050par0501	Mr. President, most valuable MPs, as long as I haven't seen in a long time, I've seen the Grand National Assembly of Turkey quiet, calm, unexcited. I'm sorry to have to give a speech in such an environment, but I can't help but notice that the lobby is pretty active. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important concepts the 20th century brings to the world's health care system is the right to live in good health, as defined by almost all the constitutions around the world. Thus, all constitutions have taken the lead in allowing citizens to take advantage of this right equally and for free. As you all know -- once again, I will repeat -- when we call health life, we refer to physical, spiritual, and social -- with the concepts of health in the 20th century. It is impossible to accept that any of these concepts are properly located in Turkey today. My dear friends, some thirty-five or forty years ago, when the world began blowing the winds of neoliberal policies in the 20th century, these concepts have been changed, and its leadership has been changed, especially in Britain, Thatcher, and Turkey, as Turgut Ozal have done, the privatisation winds have begun in health, and in the health of the constitutions, rapidly retreated from the principles of social state, and health has been commercialized, privatized. Dear lawmakers have imposed AKP power on the Republic of Turkey and its people, under a serious transformation of health and health, which even the Motherland Party has not done since 2002. Now, as we've seen from our Minister of Health's presentations, there's been an increase in real health expenditures in the Republic of Turkey over the past 14 years from $5 billion to $340 billion, but in Turkey, all physicians and physicians who already knew this job had predicted that health would be commercialised by these winds and costs would rise in health 14 years ago. Dear lawmakers, we're still the last, as you can all imagine, when you spend $5.1 percent of health care per capita in the OECD countries -- 5.1 per cent of the gay national population -- and $568 per person. So I want to add right away that the United States of America is 16 percent and that health care per capita is up to 10,000 dollars. But one thing is, we're first in health technology, like MRI, like a CT scan. For example, the number of MRIs in Istanbul today is far above the number of MRIs in England. We have citizens who can't pay millions of premiums under general health insurance services. I'm not going to add to that, since my predecessors are referring to these issues. We all know that 5 to 12 lira per person is taken for a visit under the name of "inclusion fee" in public hospitals and private hospitals, 1 Turkish lira per drug per prescription, another 10% from pensioners, 20 per prescription, and if he wrote a prescription on top of the cheapest equivalent drug -- something very important -- then we all know that it's still being collected from citizens as money. Precious lawmakers, as we all know, in private hospitals, additional contributions to 200 per cent are being collected from citizens, and the knife money, as stated before me, has now become official in Turkey. I mean, it's already possible in private hospitals, in public institutions, especially in university hospitals, unfortunately, at 17 p.m. The alleged surgeries, after 00, have a huge share of exorbitant contributions. More tragicly, the official hospitals are these 17. They distorted the practices after 00 ▪ and began to do so in the morning hours. There are unhappy teachers and unhappy students in colleges. Especially in the basic sciences of medical schools, there's a great practice of morale. Performance practices have also become highly unethical practices, and all of which have led to increasing unnecessary health expenses. Dear lawmakers, I boasted eight years ago that the Mediterranean University Hospital as a public institution was the best-run and operated public hospital in Turkey. I would like to say that today the return capital of Mediterranean University Hospital has reached the private sector for up to 60 million liras, its debt to pharmaceutical companies or medical technology and equipment companies until about three years ago, the same situation is in the entire university's rotating capital, and now almost to the hospital, even the treatment material or surgical gloves are being prescribed. Now, to solve this, of course, we know that our power brings public hospitals to the agenda with the do-and-do model, and we also know that it promises them the guarantees of payment, just like on the highways and at the airport. As a result, it is possible to say that the existing public hospitals will soon collapse. Our friends who deal with family medicine face a problem: they have no civil service rights, they've built their own businesses, they've weaved them. Today there are 46 open family clinic staffs in Antalya. If a family doctor is applying to one of these, there are two ways: either he'll apply to one of the existing family clinics, where the doctor will agree with the friends because he's in the position of serving in an institution paid for by other friends -- an extremely unethical, ugly situation -- or a valued law enforcement office to guarantee 2,000 patients a year. Can you imagine what a humiliating situation the Turkish physician faced? He's going to make some unethical promises to patients to find 2,000 patients. Unfortunately, that's what the Turkish physician's situation is now for Antalya, and I don't think it's any different in other provinces. Friends, one of the most patient applications I've ever encountered as an MP is that please give us a place in intensive care because there's an ICU scandal in Turkey. Private hospitals have very expensive intensive care, and the patient is desperate, and two or three days after he's in there, he's forced to move to a public hospital. And private hospitals -- we all know -- in some cases, there are patients in bed situations where the intensive care is unnecessary because they don't need intensive care, and they're being inconvenienced by Social Security. And right now, we have a country that has 10 times the world average of emergency services applications in the world. You know why? All the patients who can't even give you a five to 12-dollar share of the medical exam are looking for access to hospitals through emergency rooms. And emergency services are no longer able to perform their functions in public hospitals today, they're working as if they're serving normal clinic services, and almost all of the doctors who work there are facing a state-of-the-art situation of reporting patients by public inspectors. Dear lawmakers, other than that -- it's a very stressful situation -- in the health world, in 2015, all physicians who work in the healthcare sector, but are constantly serving, full-time, have been subcontracted. These physicians are told by special hospital bosses: "You will then write us a receipt for your services, and you will have no annual leave; or you will have no guarantee in your time of illness; you will give us a receipt, and you will serve us." I'm afraid that the Republic of Turkey is now faced with such disgrace, and the physicians working in private hospitals are in a state of very low morale and have to take care of themselves. I'm proud to say that the Republic of Turkey has over 100,000 highly successful, well-trained medical staffs raised by the Republic of Turkey, but our government doesn't appreciate them, doesn't appreciate their nurses, doesn't appreciate their midwifes, and unfortunately, we're in great despair in health. I give you all my love.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0051par0519	Thank you, Mr. Akadun. Vural Kakuncu, Kütahya MP against the proposal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Cantaloupe.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0052par0523	My dear President, my esteemed deputies, I salute your grand delegation. I have made a pledge against Turkish citizens' proposals to open parliamentary research, which is aimed at establishing social, economic problems that have been created by the National Movement Party, the increase in their health-related spending and the resolution of this increase. Dear MPs, I'll give you a few numbers first, and then we'll have a little chat about the reality of Turkey's real life. First of all, we know that total health spending reached 95 billion dollars in TİK data in 2014. Gene, when a total amount of health spending is examined on public and private sectors, the majority of this is public health spending, 75 billion liras and 77.4 per cent; the private sector's share in total health spending is around 21 billion 368 million. In private health spending, most of it can be done there, in the private sector. The $17 billion of private health spending is pocketed, while the remaining $4 billion includes private insurance companies, non-profit companies and other businesses serving households. To sum it up, we're talking about 17.8% of the money we're talking about today. In 2014, the GDP rate of public health spending was 4.2 per cent, while it is currently set aside for around 5.4 per cent. In 2014, each person's health expenditure was $1.232. Most of this is public health expenses, which is $955, and private medical expenses are $276. 219 liras of private health care per person is made up of pocket health expenses. If we compare the same indicators in the United States based on dollars, the total health expenditure per person is $563, the public health spending per person is $436, the private medical spending is $126, and the pocket health expenditure is $110. I'll give you a few more digits, then we'll discuss the situation in Turkey together. When we look at the situation in Turkey in general, our health spending rate is 5.4 per cent in GDP; this average is 6.1 per cent in upper middle income countries. However, the difference is that in our country, the significant proportion of these expenditures is done in public, while in upper middle-income countries, they are made in more private sectors. When you look at the total health expenditure per person, $563 is in Turkey, right, but in upper middle-income countries, that rate is around $477. Okay, let's do a comparison. In 2002, what proportions did this individual's health expenses reach along with our country's growth and transformation? In 2002, $187 per person's health care has increased to $563 per person in 2014. I'll give you the last few numbers again. In reality, the amount of health spending per person has increased to $143 in 2002, 157 in 2012, and 17.8 per cent in 2014. It's true that there's been some increase in rates from the official pocket. In contrast, we have reached what quality of health care we need to consider. But, with that, look, I'll tell you about the services the government has provided, according to the health-enforcement notice, for no extra charge. One of them is ICU. Just a moment ago, Mr. Orator was speaking here, and he said that citizens can't find a place in intensive care, and that they go to private hospitals and sleep around with a lot of money.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0053par0531	That's so true.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0052par0532	Private hospitals can't make a difference from intensive care officially, sir. All their services here are provided by the government for free. That information isn't accurate. Another has been criticised in connection with the green area services provided in emergency services. Right now, we have a large number of citizens in emergency services who would like to receive daily clinic service in emergency services. It's almost 30 percent higher than normal clinics. This is not a very sustainable ER administration. For this reason, the patient groups here are distributed in green, yellow, and red, along with a tria (tria) system. That's right, a little bit of this contribution from patients in the green areas is taken as a part of the prescription, plus $5 plus $3. Look, burn treatments are free of charge. We have some very valuable lawmakers here who are doing cancer surgery again; we have the opposition, and when we ask them, it's clear today that cancer treatments are given by our government without charge. In our 81 provinces, a patient in need of this kind of treatment can today reach radiotherapy, chemotherapy and other procedures at the latest in technology, free of charge in many parts of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0054par0535	ICU, ICU...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0052par0536	I just got off the phone with a friend of ours who's doing cardiovascular surgery again, and I confirmed it. Today, all cardiovascular operations, including stent applications, cover applications, and all such transactions, are one of the environments in which citizens serve without putting their hands in their pockets. It's a subject that's always been maintained with additional fees in many developed countries without being able to continue like this. When we ask the patients today, and we ask them, it's said that you're paying a patient who's been served for cardiovascular surgery, a lot of money in connection with the services you receive at this point, and you're doing a lot of work. What do you think of this? Believe it when we say it, it's in the language of the people who say it that God will stone him. He says, "I'm telling you." Now...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0055par0538	I'm a stone!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0052par0539	No, sir, you're not a stone, but it's the truth. Organ, tissue, and stem cell transplants; these are also free services. Hemodialysis treatments are being given for free again. The process of installing a cokklear (koklear) implant, again limited, is among the free-of-charge procedures. Now, when we talked about the difference fees, there were a lot of services here, 16 pens of service. Look, yes, the phone charges have been paid, so let me not repeat them again. So these are a couple of pounds, when you look at them in total. When a patient goes to the first step, he pays a $2 difference, and when he goes to the second step, he pays an 8 lira difference in prescriptions, and when he writes more than 3 pens, he pays a dollar per prescription. Let's assume we've collected all these pens. I'd like to tell the opposition that our people are well aware of their account. When you go out on the street today, what is the success of the AK PARTY for so many years?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0056par0543	Not anymore, not anymore.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0052par0544	If, in this sense of health care, the citizen had received such high wages and a much worse service than before, which touched his pocket, he wouldn't have given us that kind of support. I just called our chief physician at the Habbit State Hospital and asked him, "How much money do you have coming out of your pocket from a patient who has been examined today?" Yes, if he buys it online, he gets a free appointment from ▪web. Suppose he buys it on the phone, he gets 2 liras, he's examined it, he's got a prescription for 5 liras, he's got a prescription for 3 lira; 10 liras plus 2 lira on top; that's under $20 total.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0057par0546	You give the Syrians free, the Syrians free.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0052par0547	So is the servant, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0057par0548	No, you give it to the Syrians for free.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0052par0549	Look, I'm a physician. When you were in your period in 2002 and you were a partner before that, and there was this informal service that didn't count, you know, without going to the practice, without paying for the knife, you know, you know, it was 80 lira medical bills in my county, and if the doctor came home -- we're giving health care at home, right now -- that's two times as much as that. In order to have an operation today, to become a cancer cure, the citizen would sell his field, his vineyard, his garden, everything. We've come neither day nor day. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Where we are today...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0057par0550	A citizen of the Republic of Turkey has been made a second-class citizen. It's free for the Syrians, but money for the citizen of the Republic of Turkey. He even gets the frame of his glasses for free.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0052par0551	I'm a doctor, I've heard a lot about asking a patient for gas money, asking for gas money. If you found his diesel, you couldn't find his driver, so if you found his driver, you'd send an ambulance in the shape of a transport vehicle. For that, we thank you for giving us this opportunity at these points. He says we can't consider it positive, and I pay my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0058par0554	Thank you, Mr. Cantaloupe.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0059par0555	Mr. President, during the speech of the speaker...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0058par0556	I can't hear you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0059par0557	Mr. Speaker, during his speech, he used to tease you about the time in your period in 2002 when he referred to the National Movement Party as a government partner. He's dedicated a different opinion. Ahmet Selim...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0058par0558	Just a moment, Mr. Akchay. Now, Mr. Yýmim said something to Mr. Kautuncu from where he was sitting. Mr. Kautuncu said that when you were in your home and before that, you were in the commonwealth.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0060par0560	I did.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0058par0561	In fact, I've had trouble describing the target, the target of your sentences. I understand...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0061par0562	It's for us, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0058par0563	One moment, Mr. Akçay, one second, don't be impatient; I'm making a statement.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0062par0564	I'm waiting, sir. I didn't say anything, Mr. President, so I didn't say anything.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0058par0565	Mr. Yurdakul, is there a problem?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0063par0566	No, he didn't say anything.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0062par0567	I didn't say anything, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0058par0568	No, I mean hand-to-hand signals...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0063par0569	We don't do hand-to-hand, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0058par0570	You're doing something.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0063par0571	Yeah, that's what we're doing.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0064par0572	Wait a minute... Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0065par0574	Mr. Akçay, one moment, sir, I haven't finished my sentence.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0064par0575	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0065par0576	I'm doing the opening of the sentence of Mr. Cantaloupe. I understand from your statement that he made a statement to the National Party for Action. Who will speak, Mr. Akchay? Mr. Ahmet Selim will speak.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0066par0579	The CHP and the MHP didn't share, Mr. President. CHP and MHP were never partners.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0065par0580	One moment, Mr. Lawmakers, one moment, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0067par0581	Mr. President, I'd like to point out that when I'm promised my position, it's generally a matter of gestures and gestures in my speech.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0065par0582	No, I didn't mean you as a gesture, Mr. Akchay. I know your kindness, I know how much you respect Parliamentary law; I would never think that. I meant the movements of Mr. Yurdakul. There was a prior to that. Mr. Yurdakul was the first speaker to speak out of the agenda here the other day, so naturally since he wasn't in the hall, I switched to the second speaker. When he came to his place, he gave me an angry attitude with gestures of hand. I've just seen the same attitude. I just reminded you of that. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0068par0584	You're doing hand gestures, Mr. President. That's not an attitude against you. And don't tell him about yesterday.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0065par0586	Did you say something, Mr. Yurdakul?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0068par0587	You should have told me about yesterday and I should have answered.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0065par0588	Look, it's not a place for dialogue. Go ahead, make your speech.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0068par0590	Yeah, I agree.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0065par0591	Mr. Yurdakul, please...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0068par0594	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, first of all, we thank Mr. Vural Bey because his figures are indeed correct. In 2014, Mr. President, yes, 17.8 per cent, but just in numbers, so our citizens understand. For example, a $16.8 billion citizen spent money on his pocket. In 2015, this goes up to 20 billion. If we explain it like that, our citizens will understand better. Second: It is not right to compare us with the United States of America because the national income in the United States of America is not the same as our national income. Our citizen can't afford it. I've just explained the numbers to you, and I've made it clear to you the number of people who live on minimum wage, pensioners, all those who live on poverty. So, that comparison is wrong. Another is that you're saying that our cancer patients are being treated freely for free. But for example, how many days has the diagnosis and treatment of our patients been delayed in lung cancer, Mr. Vural? Over a hundred days. Do you know when we diagnose our patients? Unfortunately, we diagnose 83 percent of our patients with lung cancer in phases 3 and 4, which is final stages. You know why? That's because you don't prioritize protective care because of this system. If you give them priority, success will be achieved. These are political points. Another thing is knife money. Mr. President, at the university hospital or at the state hospitals you brought in, if you're going to examine the teacher, you're going to have to pay 100 lira immediately, average, if you're going to have surgery, you're going to have to pay an additional amount between $1,000 and $5,000. You didn't get rid of that knife money, you made it official. We're against it. Put this away. Because someone's got money, someone's got no money. For a patient with cancer, everyone puts everything he has on the table for his parents, his kids, he sells everything to the teacher. Don't you? So come on, here's what I'm proposing... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] All of you, everyone who's going to have surgery, everyone who's going to have to operate, all of our patients, like cancer patients without paying for a contribution, all of our patients, teachers and specialists. What's wrong with that? Well, if our economy is good, isn't it, Mr. President? I offer love and respect.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0069par0602	If you come to power, you will.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0070par0603	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0071par0609	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit02spe0070par0610	There's a request for a roll call before you put the motion to your votes. That's why I'm going to perform the procedure on this. Mr. Altay, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Tülcuoğlu, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Ali Şeker, Mr. Öz, Mr. Bektaşoglu, Mr. Akyıldı, Mr. Bozkurt, Mr. Yım, Mr. Akadım, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Altaca Kayşoğlu, Mr. Nurlu, Mr. Yıldız Bicer, Mr. Sýncüçoğlu, Mr. Şekseloğlu, Mr. Şekyük, Mr. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0070par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before voting on the nationalist Action Party's group proposal, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the advisory council on Thursday/5/2016 (now) there is no consensus among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. It has been suggested that the review of the motions for a full parliamentary examination of existing regulations aimed at preventing domestic violence should be met together in the General Assembly's 5/5/2016 Thursday merger of 5/5/2016, which is part of the part of the Turkish Parliament's agenda for General Assembly. In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Diryet Taşdemir, Ağrı MP. Here you go, Mr. Stonedemir.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0072par0025	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our group's motion to investigate the violence against the woman. Violence against women, frankly, is one of the most fundamental problems in our country, but unfortunately, this is being tried to be invisible by being constantly personalized and normalized by the violence against women. We know that there are historical, ideological, and active reasons for this. In history, it always began before the dark ages when women were tried to be enslaved. Women's labor is first confiscated, women are unidentified, and in some sense surrounded, new systems are built. What we live in today is a very dark age in that sense. Again, through women, society is forced to be silenced, obeyed, to build a quiet, colorless, sex-sensitive society. Women's demands, women's demands are marginalized. A system without a woman's name, without a woman's word, that's how they want to be rebuilt. That's why violence against women is normalized in a sense, and somehow covered up. 50% of the population is women. You know, more than half of these women are exposed to violence at home, on the street, and in every aspect of life. At some point in her life, almost no woman who wasn't violent, unfortunately, has been found. This data tells us that violence against women is an organised and structural problem. Men who exercise violence are often portrayed as drug addicts and abnormals with psychological problems. Thus, men who exercise this violence, those who practice violence, are tried to justify it in a sense. Thus, it is expressed in categories such as violence, poverty, lack of education, by connecting with the psychological problems of those who practice this violence. But we know that most violent men are men with dignity and dignity in normal life. A lot of them are even respected and respected enough to be a member of parliament on this bench. But when these normal men are violent with women, then, in a way, violence is abnormalized, and the responsibility of manhood and the main cause of violence are being covered up. We also know that violence is not because of man's weakness, but also because of the need to emphasize his manhood - the expression of manpower, which is an individual value in society. The government, frankly, strengthens these values by supporting them with their policies, and they return to women as violence. The violence against her on the street, at home, at work, has become so normal that even in the highest office of politics, violence against women is being inflicted on women. You know, in the commission where immunity was asked to be removed, a AKP MP used the expression "I'll beat you up" to a female deputy. Now, how do we define this man? Is he a man who is addicted to alcohol, psychological problems, or is he a man who's really trained in manly values, fed on manly values, and we expect you to answer that because we haven't been able to define that, I'm afraid. AKP MPs can also interpret women's protection arrangements as opportunistic. A AKP MP has even claimed that my personal name is investigating the reasons for divorces, but not the reasons for divorces, but that some women in the Commission, working to prevent divorces, have made misleading statements to keep their husband away from violence in order to continue their illegal lives. Another deputy stated that he did not find it right to base women's statements on violent cases. In any case, women are usually the first to question, the first to question. Unfortunately, we see similar practices, similar mentality, in the research commissions established to prevent violence, to investigate women's problems. The Istanbul Convention is now being tried to bring up the talks. In society, for women who don't have the means to be equal to men, reconciliation is about giving a woman's life to the mercy of men. In fact, institutionalizing the intermediary institution without seeing the power inequality between a man and a woman at a disadvantage against him means returning women to the cycle of violence again. Therefore, strengthen individuals rather than institutionalize the intermediary institution. If the individuals are to be married, if they are to be divorced, let the individuals decide, not institutions, not peacemakers. So many women returned home from these mediation institutions were murdered, murdered by women. Children see violence and witness violence in this cycle. In combating violence, measures to prevent self-crimination and punishment should be taken, as men should target violence. However, the government makes it a problem for women to even want something for themselves by describing their only value through the family. It must not be forgotten that the process of violence is a process of devaluement from a woman's point of view. ▪ How can an approach that does not even make peace with the word woman give women the value they have as a woman? Think of what these extensions of the mindsets of violence against women in parliament have done to organized women who seek rights, go out into the fields, fight back. Women and institutions struggling in different areas for women's economic, political, personal freedom are becoming targets of the government. Women who have been subjected to attacks who have not stepped back in fear of exposing their consciousness, their politics, and their presence as a force against them. In an economy based on profit and capital, Jinen Azad, whose labor has been made invisible, held as a free worker, is the organised voice of women who are being dispossessed and tried to be unidentified, is being pressured directly and openly because of its power recently. Kurdish women, who have been organized since the 1990s and have been organized since 2013, face the violence of the state today as the Democratic, Free Women's Movement, and then as the Kongreya Jinen Azad. KJA activists who operate for economic strengthening, preventing violence, equal participation in women's decision-making mechanisms are taken into custody, arrested, and confiscated KJA. The indictments of the arrested activists are filled with tragicomic reasons: 8 Martas, joining the Sanctuary Council; conferences, workshops and workshops for women's participation in political life, political life, social life, economic life; hence, female activists are being arrested. KJA was raided last month's association, many KJA activists -- tens of them even -- are currently under arrest, many facing investigations. We clearly know the reasons for these attacks on his work in that sense. If it hadn't been for this organised female power, there would have been no co-chair in the municipalities, no equal representation in parliaments. If the KJA is liberated, the community will be liberated. The fact that KJA is running its work through the sari is actually due to the fear and anxiety of the society that is being liberated by women's leadership. Because, frankly, the society that will be liberated by women's freedom and women's leadership is the fearful dream of this dark mindset. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That is why it is not coincidental that women are targeted in blockaded cities. In the cities under the blockade, more than 99 women were killed, and the bodies of women were exposed. The display of women's bodies is parallel to ISIS's mentality, and you know that ISIS has exposed women in slave markets by selling them.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0073par0042	Mr. President, he's out of time, let him finish his speech.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0072par0043	You've also proved how ideological, philosophically similar you are to ISIS by exposing the female body in Cizre, Cizre, Cleopatra, and Yüksekova.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0074par0045	Thank you, Mr. Stonedemir. Against the proposal, Deniz Depboylu, Aydın MP. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0075par0049	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0074par0050	There's a process that's started. I've seen your request, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. I'll evaluate your request when the speeches are over.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0075par0051	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0074par0052	Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0076par0053	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to express our views on violence against the woman. I salute you. Before I begin my talk, the universally destructive, abusive, innocently imperfect species of violence strongly condemn the terror that has been taken from us by terror, by God, and by our martyrs. Today we have another martyr in Nusaybin, the great Turkish nation's head, let them rest in peace. Again, it is the day of our esteemed midwives, who, for the first time in the world, aided the most beautiful, most sacred, motherly sense of motherhood, by bringing women together, to make the families happy, holding their hands when a baby comes into the world. I celebrate their day with heartfelt love. How sad it is to have an innocent, pure, human being born to celebrate the birth of a man on the occasion of the Day of the Midwives, to learn about violence in the process of man, and, unfortunately, to be subjected to violence at certain times, and even worse, to practice violence on others. Unfortunately, it's more painful that this violence is directed at women, the kind of man who bring himself into the world, raises himself with sacrifices. Violence, I'm afraid, is everywhere: home, school, street, traffic, unfortunately in Congress, and most of all in houses, between four walls. And again, unfortunately, most of them remain confidential, unaccounted for. Physical violence may be revealed in some degree, but sexual violence is never especially involved, and the victims avoid receiving help. Violence is too much to explain to anyone who's witnessed more than the one who's been subjected to it. When we think of violence, we often think of physical and sexual violence, but it's not limited to the type of violence that our women suffer; the most is verbal violence, emotional violence, economic violence, persistent pursuit -- which is a form of violence -- which is a form of violence that has recently been studied and statistics are being done, unfortunately, that our women are much more vulnerable to it than that -- again, with the development of technology in recent years, cyber violence. At any point in their lives, women have been subjected to what kind of violence, and what is the ratio of them? 68 percent of women suffer violence from their wives, 25 percent from their mother, 24 percent from their father-in-law, 13 percent from their mother-in-law, and 5.3 percent from their sister-in-law, so violence is not limited only by the violence of men. 26 percent of the women were married before they reached the age of 18 - the result of polls conducted in society. Again, half the women who get married at an early age are subject to physical or sexual violence. One third of the women who get married after 18 years of age are subjected to violence. As we look at the situation, we can see how early marriages do damage. Early marriage, especially at a young age, unfortunately leads to a greater level of violence. At this point, we need to look back at our legislation. I would also like to criticize the decision not to seek a civil marriage after the religious wedding, as it opens the way for young marriages, even second, third marriages, and we need to resolve this problem as soon as possible. Women's murders have increased by 1,400 per cent in the last decade; 303 women were killed in 2015, 237 in 2013, 294 in 2014. Since January 1, 2016, 64 women have been killed, but not only is it limited to murder; when we look at it, we see the most verbal violence, 91 percent of which are done in statistics. Other than that, there are slaps, beatings, threats, many other forms of violence that we can sort out. When we looked at them, they asked women, specifically, why do we get violent or suffer from a lack of communication? Economic problems are following this again, and there are 37 percent and other problems that are being followed by spiritual problems. The impact of violence on the victim is devastating, causing psychological problems 43 percent. Again, don't feel worthless, don't start hating violence, and the fact that this hatred is directed towards certain sexes or certain masses, unfortunately, some of the problems we face. But, if we group them together like this, it's mental illness triggered by domestic violence: 64 percent post-traumatic stress disorder. This process, which is full of reliving, avoidance, overstimulation, negative thoughts and feelings, is a sign that violence and violence are going on at the same time, so it's not limited, it's going on, it's going on in her spiritual life. 48 per cent suffer from depression, while 12 per cent attempt suicide. One third of the women don't know anything about their legal rights, and 19 percent say they know their legal rights. Which means we're pretty weak on that one, too. Do you give support to women who have been asked, women who have been subjected to violence? 75% have said no. 24 percent have not answered. Yes, a small percentage has not answered. In this case, the government, which governs the state, shows that women who are being abused cannot prevent violence, and that women who have been subjected to violence can't get the necessary help. What do you do when you're exposed to violence? Sadly, 63 percent respond to violence in some way and curse if they can't do anything. But you know what's worse? Unfortunately, the violent person is beginning to commit violence, especially in this house, when it comes to the power of the fittest. I mean, it's not enough for children to see violence in this environment, it's just that they're exposed to violence in some way. How does domestic violence affect children? It's a secondary trauma once. A father who is violent to his wife is likely, and according to the statistics, he is also violent to his child. The violent child is also prone to violence. This is how violence affects men in some way, so when a young boy witness his mother's violence, it is likely that it will reflect violence on his wife and family in the future. Sadly, one third of the men in Turkey are violent and half of the violent ones have seen their father commit violence. In this case, we're looking at your father's influence in the event of a role model. There are the Centres for Violence Prevention and Watch, the CENTURY. When we look at these, we see that they are not enough. Their location is not suitable for access, not enough and not enough experts. There are pilot applications in only 14 counties, unfortunately not popularized. There's been no partnership in regulations, tests, and some inventory. Unfortunately, there's only so much room for violent women to be sheltered in. FOR victims of violence targeted by the establishment of the SUNIM, the Single Door System will have to be implemented. Violence against women must be organized as a qualified form of crime and must be subjected to the most severe punishment. The perpetrators are not getting the punishment they deserve, and I want to make a special point of that. Unfortunately, the violent ones, sir. He said, "I'm sorry." He put on a tie, he put on a suit, and they came back, and somehow they got away with it. These need to be blocked, too. It's a burden on the shoulders of our victims in need of protection in the fight against violence. We, the National Movement Party, have declared that we believe that all women who have suffered violence should be paid by the state for their costs, for their costs, for their legal expenses. We hope that the AKP will take that into consideration, which will help our women better. The measures made by the courts are far from meeting the needs of victims of violence. There's a lot of work that needs to be done for families; we need expert support, we need specialists watching families. Unfortunately, violence is rapidly climbing because the government lacks so much. I offer you all this information and salute you with respect.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0077par0073	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. In favour of the proposal, Gamze Akkuş Ilgezdi, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Whitebird Illustration.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0078par0077	Mr. President, I have been promised in favour of discussing the proposal for parliamentary research given by the People's Democratic Party to investigate violence against women. I'm going to start today with a newspaper report about violence on the woman, the drama of a 16-year-old married wife who was abused by her husband. Yeah, I'm telling you what she said in the news. In the meantime, let me tell you, a woman whose face is unrecognizable by being thrown in the face by her husband. I'm a mother of two. I'm staying here in a room. My kids come to me all the time asking me for things. When I ask for water in the middle of the night, I can't get up, and when she cries, she cries. I can't take it out of your hands. I went through this to take my kids with me. They stay away from me because I don't look like their old mother. Should we feel sorry for the mother here or the children? Yes, dear Regents, today we are going through the dark days in Turkey where the achievements of women have been threatened by the struggles for many years. In our country today, the state policy of women is free of violence against women, and even encouraging, sexist, and exclusing women from social life. So a reactionary darkness surrounds us step by step. There is nothing more natural than that of women's rights advocates in every area where life flows, in Parliamentary commissions, in areas and palaces of justice, to criticize the policies of your power, because they witness that you make a special effort to restore the social space and the status of the woman. And unfortunately, the government sees women as the subject of this effort, puts women at the center of his politics; he wants to, he makes targets; he wants to, he turns it into a symbol of freedom, so power uses her. In this regard, we should view any violence against the woman as a direct result of reactionary politics in the country, not a criminal case. Because when we use our freedom of expression, we are subjected to male violence, and when we demand our rights, we are subjected to the violence of law enforcement forces. It's clear that there's a power that wants her out of every aspect of life, not just in public space. That's why they want a woman who's locked up, who takes care of her children, who's framed with dignity, who has no opinions about anything, who, in short, has no judgment. So it's getting harder to be a woman in Turkey, as a result of this understanding that her subject is to ignore the burden. Yes, there's an understanding in this country that deserves to satisfy yourself with the sweater you're wearing, the blouse you're wearing, the shoes on your feet, even the makeup you're wearing. Men, politicians and representatives of the state who can't stand your demand for equality have pressure. There's a mentality that only tries to reduce violence against women to gender. And there's a structure that doesn't want to see the physical, sexual, economic and psychological dimensions of violence. For example, if you ask an address, you may be raped by a young man of your grandson's age; if you steal your paycheck, make a noise, you will lose your life; you will not be asked about the account. You're a woman. Your age doesn't matter in this country. You can be raped, killed, thrown into the woods by your relatives, such as Six-year-old Mystery; your killer wears a suit, takes advantage of good behavior; the dead stays with the dead. Three people can rape a 17 - month - old baby, and they can also testify that she was a smiling child. You look for justice, you don't find it. Yes, one by one, we're being killed, not enough to be turned into living dead, so we're only being killed by your hand, by your tongue, not by our own time. Let me give you a little example of justice that you can't find. Because you say, "What were you doing at that hour?" You say, "She doesn't laugh, she doesn't talk." Because you say, "We don't need education from women." Because you say, "You can't keep us alive like women." Because you say, "There's no need for deafening murders." I don't know if Mr. Minister of Family and Social Policy is aware of this, but 306 women were killed last year, almost a woman's murder every day. As you said the killings were isolated, the painting became heavy. In the first three months of this year, 94 women have left us. I mean, there's death in her body. Now, I invite you to think for a minute: is violence just, like, two slaps in the face, lock her up and not let her out? What about children's brides, children's brides, what map, what painting should they be shown in? Not to mention rape, violence, abuse, battery, and guilt, the high rollers. Moreover, these are not the challenges of becoming a woman in Turkey. First guilty women when the economy goes bad. 71 per cent of the women work off the books. Seventy percent of the population below the poverty line is women. You can have a minister who declares unemployment because women are looking for work; let it be prohibited in the matter of abortion. Let the state take care of it. You can also have a minister who legitimizes abuse; laughing is a revolutionary act, or you can also have a minister who declares a woman laughing in the country unchaste. Do you know what all these ministers have in common? It's the fact that they count her existence as a motive. Dear Regents, make as many laws as you want, it doesn't make sense if you don't run the law. We have to make a mental revolution. Your judge, your prosecutor, your next-door neighbor, your convenience store, your building clerk, your full-fledged chauffeur, all the men who surround your life, even women, are in the honor guard of our country. We need to get rid of this mindset that has sent honor guards to our neighborhoods. In peace, I fear this understanding that makes this country fast into darkness, when no one crushes, nor snores, nor alters, nor does the children need the women of this world for an equal order that is not condemned to war, to hunger. In the houses where they're trying to lock us up, the streets where they're trying to fire us, the violence is growing. You're upset, we're angry, and above all, we're concerned. The end of this road you've been on is once we women, then a great darkness for the whole community. Well, we've talked about all this violence, and then there's the pain in the mothers, the heartaches. What violence will we include in the heartache of dozens of mothers who tell their children to the ground with daily news of martyrs? City-to-town, court-martialed mothers who seek their children's rights in cold justice palaces? If I find my son's bones, I will carry them in my bosom. What will be the cry of the thousands of mothers, the mothers, who have not even reached her son's funeral? On September 12th, what book will we write down the pain of the mother of Erdal, who was raised in age, who was the 44th anniversary of the execution on May 6th? These three plants, raised by strawberry mothers, were the voice of all Turkey, saying that they were completely independent of imperialism. The proud heritage of the seas has been burning for forty-four years as a torch for the struggle for democracy. Nazim Hikmet says: My friend! Look at the stars, You may never see them again. You can't stretch your arms like the horizons. Young man! Beautiful, horrible, powerful and good. It's the greatest thing in the universe. Young man! You, on a corner You're gonna die, Or die on a gallows. You may never see them again. Young man! Maybe you understand me, Maybe you don't understand. I'm interrupting. Yes, Sea Gezdi, Hüseyin İnan, Yusuf Aslan was a young sapling driven into a fire forest, and he was wriggled with his laughter, his light, and one night they walked fearlessly to the oily Urga of imperialism. Now it's our flag, now it's ours. Hail to all the mothers and women who raise the flag in the field in the struggle for women. Hail to all the martyrs of the revolution who are on the path to full independence of Mustafa Kemal. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0079par0113	Thank you, Mr. Whitebird Illustration. Tülay Kaynarca, İstanbul MP against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0080par0117	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs regarding the HDP group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. First of all, I have to express my regret. Clearly, our last esteemed representative drew a picture of a woman whose name had been removed from there and had created a painting that would say, "Woe, woe, woe, woe!" Frankly, I'm sad because the Republican People's Party is such a photo of a woman who's been ignored, locked away, locked away, sir, such a nightmare photograph... frankly, we've done this, we've done this, we've done this, we're going to talk about violence, we need to get rid of that mentality before we can talk about something like this. My very dear representatives, when you present a political ideal, a photograph, you don't talk about the party A, the party B, when you set an ideal, you're talking about Turkey, when you're going to take steps together in the name of women. The ratio of women to the first legal rights in Parliament in 1934 was 4.6, but today, since 2002 -- look at the percentages -- 14.7 per cent, 17 per cent, was brought to representation in a parliament that was all taken together. Education, employment, social policies, every single one of them step by step, much better today than yesterday, but tomorrow, it's still going to decide if it's going to be much better, and we're going to go hand in hand, together. We called it violence against women... about education. You're looking at reports of this, and she must be strong, strong as an individual, of course. Now, the HDP has presented this in the group proposal, okay, so when that woman, the lady, condemns the violence against the terrorists from here, and the violence against the women there, when she condemns the terrorists from this platform, I'll say yes, yes. I'll say yes. When he fights terrorism as a woman from that stand, we'll say it's a blessing.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0081par0122	Condemn the violence against the woman in the General Assembly. Shame! Shame!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0080par0123	So, please, let's not resort to puns. One day, number 6284...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0082par0125	There's no need for games, there's no need for murders.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0080par0126	Look, I listened to you with respect, why can't you stand it? Why can't you stand it?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0083par0127	Go ahead, Mr. Boiler. Congressmans, please, let's hear the speaker, sir, please.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0084par0129	Tell the truth, the truth.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0085par0130	You don't speak the truth.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0086par0131	Please... violence everywhere. We're talking immunity, violence; we're coming here... And then you hold it, and then you file a motion for violence against her. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but trust me first. AK PARTY has been in power for 12 years because it gives confidence.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0087par0133	How long has it been, excuse me?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0086par0134	Look, if you're saying one word, the secret to success is that it gives you confidence, and that's it. Oh, I see -- I've read the papers -- God, there's a photo of women killings in Turkey, these in Turkey, they're all gone. Sadly, one out of three people in the world are dying from women's murders. The European Union... and I looked at those numbers right away, and I'm telling you right now, I'm giving you the name of the institution: the EU Foundation for Basic Rights has done research. How many countries? He did it in 28 countries. Did you look? You must have looked. Whatever we find against Turkey, we're trying to tweeze it and get it to Europe, please look at this. What does it say about the European Union? The European Union says ▪62 million women. Where? In Europe. Who's taking the lead? Denmark, Sweden behind him. There is also one in Germany, and there is one in France. The odds are, unfortunately, 52 percent, 47 percent, very serious, very sad rates. Yes, there is also in Turkey; yes, Turkey has reached that point with 39 per cent, perhaps in the lines expressed, but never, ever... In every speech we speak, as the Republic of Turkey's Parliament, we as parliamentarians have the responsibility to present the honor of our own country, the right data about our own country, that's our duty. So, in expressing all of this, I wanted to underline the research numbers, as well as these, first. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers today, the world was a comparison, what we did, and I would like to make it very clear that if you'll excuse me, he'll enter into the transcripts. It's this: Look, what we do in the fight against violence against women about legislation, education and awareness, raising interagency co-operation and co-ordination, protecting and supporting women who are victims of violence, increasing the numbers of women, many such studies, I wanted to underline them first. Legal regulations, this is the first title I'm calling "emevzuat." We have been the first to sign the European Council's Convention on the Council of Europe, the Convention on the Council of Europe, or the Convention on the Council of Europe, which is related to fighting and preventing violence and domestic violence that opened in İstanbul during our term presidency. After that, Turkey was the country that created the infrastructure by passing this Istanbul Convention through Parliament. So we've also fed our sensitivity to the actual legal laws underlying our struggle on this subject. I'm looking at corporate units right behind him. In corporate units, especially UNIVERSEs draw attention to themselves. Look, when we think about what we can do with this struggle, the CSNIMs began as pilot zones in 14 cities, found 40 provinces behind it, and the work of the 2016 Action Plan continues to exist in all the provinces. In protective, preventive measures, there are also studies on increasing the number of guesthouses in particular. Look, it's part of the sensitivity of the number 43 when it first started going up to 135 guesthouses as of today. That's why I keep the woman locked up in the references to the talks. I'd like to point out from behind negative sentences such as this: that during the AK PARTI administrations, our women can also be strong, especially as individuals, because, during their speech, you care about the speaker, you care about the family, you skip the woman... of course, they're not an alternative to each other. And she will be strong as an individual, and if she is strong, the family will be strong, and when the family is strong, society will find that power, it's all the truth that triggers each other, and the work that's done about it is especially about employment. See, in 2008, the prime minister's generalisation of women's work ratios reached very valuable rates, both participation in the labour force and employment increases. It's much better than it started, but you can't ignore the work that's been done to get better, to achieve European standards, and you shouldn't. So, in all the talks that have been made so far, I'm saying that we're describing the woman of the Republic of Turkey, and that it's more than political rhetoric in the paintings drawn here, it's valuable to transfer the point with accurate data. I would point out carefully that the last women to speak violence to her are still silent to violence, to terrorism, to terrorist violence, to silence. We began to discuss the Work Law of 170 rows. You know we've finished the first part of the talks of the Turkish Employment Institution Act. So, in order to discuss the matter and to discuss the law, I respectfully salute the esteemed committee, as it is predicted today's agenda.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0088par0145	Thank you, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0089par0146	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0088par0147	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0089par0148	Mr. President, this is the speaker who spoke before him. He's been picking on us for the speech of our speaker. He was taunting our speaker's speech by making a play of words, by not giving confidence, and by not offering accurate data.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0088par0149	Who will speak, Mr. Altay?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0089par0150	It was Gamze Illegory.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0088par0151	Here you are, Mr. Whitebird Illustration. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0090par0155	Dear Regents, I've been promised a taunt. First of all, the fact that my female paralegal friends are here is not your doing, but the achievement of the republic for women, I want to make it clear. Second of all, I look at women's problems as a problem over parties.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0091par0158	That's what we're looking at.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0090par0159	And since I'm looking at it as an interparty problem, I believe that everyone should support this motion because being a woman is a more important problem in our country than what party it is. He's just stated that I'm making a pun, my co-counsel friend, but the data I'm giving here, the words I'm saying, for example, nothing happens at once. What was he doing at that hour?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0091par0161	Let's not deviate, please.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0090par0162	...all these words of yours...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0091par0163	Mr. Secretary didn't say once. He didn't say anything. You're wrong.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0090par0164	...the words of friends in you or the words of your ministers.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0091par0165	It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0090par0166	At this point, when we look at the last twelve years, thirteen years of painting, we see that in the last 12 years, violence has increased by 1400 percent; how do we explain this? Who's gonna pay for this? I, then, ask everyone from here.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0092par0167	What your president said to the Minister of Family and Social Policy...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0093par0168	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0090par0169	So, I think that the freedom of a woman in this country should not only mean the rights of a woman of one side, but the rights of women of all Turkey. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0093par0172	Thank you, Mr. Whitebird Illustration.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0094par0173	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0093par0174	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0094par0175	Mr. President, in the orator talk, the motion that we made...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0093par0176	What orator, when you say 'Hapip'?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0094par0177	The speaker spoke on behalf of the AKP in the motion that we gave him, that the information was not accurate, that we were misinformed, and that we were violent in the Commission, and that we did not express this violence.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0093par0178	Yes, Mr. Demirel, who will speak?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0094par0179	Suryet Taşdemir will speak.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0093par0180	Mr. Stonedemir, come in.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0095par0183	Frankly, I think the AKP's greatest success in politics is manipulation. I mean, you tell them the current table with numbers, but they come out here with fancy, wrapped concepts that actually mess up reality, they draw a different story, they tell a different story.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0096par0184	Our people appreciate the power of the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0095par0185	Look, I've made it clear and clear to you that the women MPs who were mentioned here after me were clearly involved in the violence that took place in Turkey. We didn't make them, we didn't make them. We, in current research, want to express to you what we've observed, what we've experienced, what we've observed in the detection of women's organisations and in the exact area. You don't want to see this reality, you want to see a different picture, you want to manipulate reality, you want to create reality in line with your own policies, but unfortunately that's not the truth. So it doesn't tell us the truth about what you're saying here. A man and a woman in this House said to the deputy, "I'll beat you up." What we expect from you is that... let alone the street, let alone the jobs, let alone the different institutions, a man used that concept to a surrogate in this House. As paralegals, we expect you to say something against it first. Other than that, there are some gains from women's institutions, women's struggles. These gains are no one's gain. Women have slept in prisons, women have paid for it, women are killed every day in the street, in the square, in the field, in violence. Therefore, do not take the gains of this woman's struggle into your own hands. I'd like to express once again that we must hand over our rights to those who fight this. So we see what you do in violence against women, your practices in commissions, research, and Congress.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0097par0189	Thank you, Mr. Stonedemir.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0098par0190	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0097par0191	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0098par0192	Mr. Speaker has mentioned that the EC PARTY is manipulating.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0097par0193	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0098par0196	Mr. President, dear friends, the CHP MP who just took the stand for bullying said that the women's gains were not yours, but the republic's. Honestly, I don't know which side of the republic does the AK PARTY fall on. Isn't the Republic all of us, sir, together we built this republic and raised it together? If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0099par0197	You didn't give me the right to be a deputy here.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0100par0198	Mr. Bostanci, there is secularism in the republic.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0098par0199	...if you leave a political delegation with 50 votes out of the republic, you'll do a great deal of harm to the republic. The Republic should be a hugger; that's one.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0101par0200	Ismail Kahraman left it.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0098par0201	Second, what we call violence on a woman is essentially part of the issue of violence. If, as a way of solving problems, people deviate from reason, judgment, law, legitimacy, and immediately violence comes into their minds, they become the target of violence, both women and men. It's a matter of underdevelopedness, and those who are primarily aware of literature know that one of the darkest parts of man is violence. And whoever is going to fight violence, you did it, they did it, they did it. They don't fight violence with political speculation, if they did, they'd have a political hostility under the name of violence. So, if our problem is to fight violence against the woman and fight violence in general, then the context of this is more valuable than political speculation, friends. Those who have something to say about it must come and say it. On the other hand, Turkey's modernisation has been the biggest contribution the EC PARTY has made in 14 years. Modernization makes people more civilized, and it replaces violence with the mind to solve problems; we made that contribution. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0102par0205	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, I see that there is a request for a statement according to Article 60. Here's your microphone, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0103par0210	Mr. President, Mr. Kani Beko, president of the Revolutionary Workers' Unions, was not asked to be taken in on the grounds that it was ordered, and it was stated that the order was given to him by Salim Dolly, a former Union President. Finally, Kani Beko came in, but there have been numerous announcements in the lobby that we've never heard before that guests shouldn't be in the lobby. We're representatives here, we're not members of this House, we're speakers, and there's going to be a law that concerns thousands of workers, and, of course, the President of the Revolutionary Workers' Unions and their executives will want to be here, and we'll be hosting them. Therefore, I was promised to express that this attitude toward them was absolutely unacceptable and to inform the House of this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0104par0213	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir. All visitors have the right to enter the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which should never be blocked. I don't know what this is about. I've heard it from you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0105par0215	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0106par0216	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0104par0217	Mr. Demirel, come in.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0106par0218	Mr. President, in his Bosnian speech, he accused us of political speculation, so I demand a say in this.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0104par0219	Here you go, Mr. Ironel. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Political manipulation, political speculation, it's all been a taunt today.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0106par0224	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bostanci knows them well. He knows very well who did the political speculation. He spoke of 13 years of power, Mr. Bostanci. Turkey's truth, its reality is clear. How many women have been murdered in 13 years, how many women in prison, how many women so far... when we evaluated it from all sides of Turkey, the European Court of Human Rights condemns Turkey. As if that wasn't enough, Mr. Bostanci expressed his political argument, and so did I, Mr. President and Davutoglu. We've lived a long time during the AKP government, trying to see her as a meta, locking her in, legitimizing violence against her. The only thing that makes a woman give birth to a child... is violence. When we talk about violence, we need to convey not only physical, but verbal, sexual, psychological violence. Mr. Bostanci, you weren't here that night. Your men's lawmakers have been violent with women's MPs, and the entire Turkish community has seen it. Here's Parliament as an example to the Turkish community. In the meantime, you have been able to enforce violence even in the House after 13 years of your power and legitimize violence against the woman, both in the commission and in the Parliament. We saw this in the period of the AKP government and power. Just last week, this Parliament carried out the violence against her, and the women here lived. If there are rights we as women have earned, it's the achievements of women's freedom and organised power. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0107par0230	Thank you, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0108par0231	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0107par0232	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0109par0233	Women should answer about women.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0108par0236	Mr. President, first of all, locking a woman behind a cage is not the understanding of the AK PARTY to see her as an entity that only gives birth to a child at home.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0110par0237	Yes, you did!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0108par0238	I'll deny it. 14 years of historical experience in Turkey rejects it, let alone me.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0111par0239	Violence has increased by 1,400 percent!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0112par0240	Then let the women speak, let the women answer!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0108par0241	On the other hand, there's something that happened that day in the House that I think Mrs. Çağlar missed because of this incident that we received with sadness and we disapproved of.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0113par0242	What did you do about your friends?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0108par0243	There's a riot going on here...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0114par0244	Your Prime Minister said you wrote destan.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0115par0245	Congressmans, please listen to Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0108par0246	... He should also have mentioned the AK PARTY MPs who interfered, and I'll be the one to mention that.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0115par0247	Well, thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0116par0248	Mr. President, for the record, we've seen, all of Turkey has seen how much violence was reflected in the House that day, how the violence in the commissions was wrapped up. As a result of 14 years of power, we express the understanding and mentality that says "I will beat you." I'd like to say once again that the attack on seven people in the parliament by 100 people, and the attack on a group with only five of them as women, has been known by everyone, and Turkey has also been known by the public.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0115par0249	Thank you, Mr. Demirel, it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0117par0250	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0115par0251	Mr. Nice Guy, here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0117par0252	Sir, Mr. Kerestecioğlu has just made a statement using my name, it's a statement of wisdom. Mr. Kani Beko is in Parliament now.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0115par0253	I can turn on your mic, Mr. Goody.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0118par0254	That's what I said, he's in Congress; we went and got him.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0119par0255	That's what we said.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0115par0256	Just a second, I'll open it. Here you go, Mr. Nice Guy.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0120par0259	Mr. President, Mr. Kerestecioğlu has just made a statement saying my name, and this statement is halafifiqikat. Mr. Kani Beko said, "I'm in charge of my duties. I've received your greetings. I'm in Parliament."
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0121par0260	We went and got it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0120par0261	Thus, a claim that he was not admitted to the House is not true. Mr. Kani Beko is here. I don't know who it's for, I just heard about it there, and I've instructed you to get it right away, or there's no question that he can't enter the General Assembly or not. Mr. Kani Beko and all the heads of NGOs are allowed in the same conditions as anyone else in the House. It's not true that he wasn't taken.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0122par0262	The announcements, the announcements, the announcements we've never heard.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0123par0263	Thank you, Mr. Goody, it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0124par0264	Mr. President, we need an explanation.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0125par0265	Mr. President, I'm in need of explanations for what's called a hilafiqikat, because there's no such thing, so it's not a myth. We went to the door, and we brought him in with Moses Çam Uhh, and the officer there said that you had instructed him. I already said he's in there, not out there.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0123par0266	Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir, your statements have been filed as well. Thank you. I submit the People's Democratic Party Group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0126par0274	Request roll call.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit03spe0123par0275	There's a call request, so I'll do the roll call. Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir, Mr. Toğrul, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Yigitalp, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Leyla Birlik, Mr. Burcu Çelik Özkan, Mr. Ocalan, Mr. Irgat, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Müslüm Doğan, Mr. Erol Dora, Mr. Sadadet Bakekli, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Ayşe Acar Başaran, Mr. Özbüççe Ertan, Mr. Aslan, Mr. Zeydan, Mr. Kaya. Initiating roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0123par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote of the People's Democratic Party Group, the roll call on demand was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the People's Democratic Party Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Thursday/5/2016 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Isparta MP Irfan Bakr and his friends provided Parliamentary Research (463 rows) on 14/4/2016 to determine measures to be taken by investigating the problems of the apple industry (463 rows). lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations Thursday (5/5/2016), and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, İrfan Bakır, Isparta MP. Here you go, Mr. Copper.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0127par0025	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a promise in our country and especially in our Isparta province that we have made a motion to investigate and find solutions to the problems that our apple makers and manufacturers face. I salute our citizens and deputies with the values that follow us on their screens. Around 50 million tons of apples are produced annually in the world. Turkey's share in this production is 3 million tonnes per year, which is Turkey's third most-producing country. Isparta meets 25 per cent of the production of 650,000 tonnes of apples in our country, and is ranked first in the provinces. The magnificent damp air of Lake Bendir was allowed to grow the world's finest and most red apples in Isparta, but the need for appleism in Isparta, unfortunately, has been left unclaimed, abandoned, and sufferings in the production of apples increased because of the lack of technological improvements. The apple produces 26,000 hecta, the capital of Turkey, but there is a variety of difficulties in the marketing of produced apples, especially in exports. Not only in Isparta (Isparta), but one of the most important problems of appleism across the country is the lack of foreign markets. Thus, Turkey, ranked third in the world's apple production, is able to take the 23th place when it comes to exports, and its share in total exports is 4 per thousand. Despite our rich apple potential, our export of apples has been interrupted, and Isparta can't export apples. Regional strategies for exporting produced apples to foreign markets must be developed. The trade market, all the fruit companies, the trade and industry room, the university, the governorship, the municipality, the province's private administration, the participation of civil society organisations and parties directly or indirectly interested in apples in the region should be held, a regional vision must be created in the apple, strategic goals and goals should be set. One of the reasons why producers in the region can't export is because export documentation is very expensive, and the other is because there's difficulty in providing financing for exports; it's because there's no information on how apple producers can finance exports. For this, there should be solutions to minimise export documentation costs, and our producers should be informed about financing. In order for our manufacturers to connect with offshore markets and to monitor the market, the association of apple manufacturers needs to be established and a unit in the interest of the trade market. Dear lawmakers, political crises with other countries are at the beginning of these problems in the sale of the apple. For example, Russia imports 1,200,000 tons of apples each year. It is imported from Moldova, Poland, Serbia and China. That's because, in addition to political relations, he makes apples cheaper. Another issue is the presence of traces of medicine in the exported apples. Isparta manufacturers have to use an average of 25 medications during the production period against the apple interior, and also during the production period. In France, there are no drugs against these diseases, but instead pheromones and traps are fought. In these matters, our agricultural universities have the necessary knowledge and savings. Our province of Isparta has two main markets in the country. One is Istanbul, the other is our eastern and southeast provinces. However, the terrorist incidents here have affected the manufacturer and the farmer as well as all of us. Manufacturers and merchants cannot bring their products to these regions. In the Istanbul market, uncertainty in markets reduces the consumption of apples and other fruits, lowering the buy power of our citizens. Another problem is the frosting. In our country, apple makers face frosting every two or three years. This also reduces the quality of the product. For this reason, our manufacturers must be conscious of the frost situation, offer solution proposals for measures, and promote early warning systems. Although last year's frosting caused the apple recollet to be cut in half, most of the apples in the warehouses were given to juice at the expense, while the other part, 25 per cent were not sold at the moment. In order for the sale of these apples to be acquired, buying public institutions by the state will make our producers a little more comfortable. In addition, apples are traditionally classified because of the lack of classification and packaging facilities. To remove this, new installations are to be set up for collections, labels, and packaging. In order for apples to be stored in the proper environment, a controlled atmosphere and dynamic control tank must be built. Therefore, private investors need to be lured into the packing and storage of apples. We expect the support of relevant public institutions on this matter. Another problem with apple production is the high cost of medicine, diesel, fertilizer, electricity, cold air storage and so on. Today there is a huge gap between the cost and the revenue that our manufacturers face while paying off loans from banks to cover those costs. The situation of our farmers is difficult day by day; the height of input costs, increases, failure to sell the apple, as well as the challenges of climate change due to global warming, and they are struggling to deal with these problems. Applery must be subsidized, and our manufacturers must be given the right incentives on time. Besides, the establishment of a higher union in the apple needs to focus only on production. So, the apple-packing, the marketing, the apple-makers' union should be interested, and our producers shouldn't worry about whether or not they can afford the product they sell. In the production process, manufacturers use both the family's workforce and the outside workers from time to time. The apple is also a fruit that requires labor in storage, marketing, packaging and processing. It needs 0.75 working days and 0.25 working days for those who don't bear fruit for the trees that bear fruit to calculate the need for the labor force to produce apples. It is also necessary to protect the rights of labor in the hard - used apple farming of work, and to take health and work safety measures. The current labour and social security legislation does not provide adequate provision for the protection of employees. Agriculture should be handled as a whole, and agriculture workers should be given an unprimited model that the state has directly contributed to the system; for example, Spain and Portugal have moved on to this type of model, which is an important road in this sense. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to address the problems of apple industry as well as agriculture in our country. First of all, the fact that agricultural land is divided and scattered reduces efficiency and increases costs. Therefore, collective work must be increased, co-optered or combined with legal regulations. Organised agricultural zones should be created, our producers should be consciously watering and fertilized, switched to closed irrigation systems, analyzed soil and leaves to improve efficiency and quality. Fruitwork should be used for designing machines, for which training and certification programmes should be encouraged, and even biological facilities based on the combined heat and solar system should be built to generate energy in heat and electrical form from prune wastes, and soil ethics should be carried out on land to be farmed. Another important issue in agriculture is cooperativeism. To improve our co-ops, a co-ops bank should be set up to meet the financial needs of co-ops, to be made a priority for those in need of state support and rural, to provide government support for the marketing of products and to be paid in time for production-based agricultural support. The audits must be carried out by the government and the central units, provided with financing. Any foreign purchase or external marketing that would affect country agriculture should provide consultations with central units, producers and breeders units under one roof, and the agricultural chambers should be used. Given these, efficiency will be achieved, and our producers will be rewarded for their hard work. Members of lawmakers, we are unable to obtain income from current production in return for labour. For all these problems to be resolved, exemplary gardens should be established and producers should be trained, trained, conscious; agriculture rooms and agricultural engineers should be taken advantage of, production units should be formed, integrated struggle should be spread; preventing wrong and extreme pesticides. According to apple types, production zones should be created, insurance issues should be eliminated, storage costs should be reduced, incentives for apple exports should be given, and producer units should be established where necessary. Fuji, Gala, produced by America and Europe, especially Italy and France, makes it difficult for us to export to Europe, when the Red species are chosen by consumers both by appearance and taste as a season. Therefore, instead of old-fashioned species, it is necessary to grow facilities that will increase apple added value and new market-appropriate species. As I come to the end of my remarks, I offer a congressional investigation into the problems facing our producers in the apple industry, in order for our country to produce and produce more efficient and quality in the domestic and external market, not only in Karaman, Niğde, Antalya, Antalya, Kayseri, Amassian, Çanakkale, and many other provinces to meet their expectations, to investigate the problems our producers face, to find solutions, and to sell them.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0128par0046	Thank you, Mr. Copper. Yilmaz Tezcan, Mersin MP against the Republican People's Party proposal. Here you go, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0129par0050	Dear President, dear MPs, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party group proposal. I salute you dear fellow MPs, our Mersin, and the precious people of our country. Before I begin, I would like to celebrate the 5th of May World Day of Midwives as an academic physician. I celebrate Sunday's May 8th Mother's Day, and also the week of Business Health and Safety, which is celebrated from May 4th to May 10th. My fellow lawmakers, as a doctor first, I would like to discuss the benefits of the apple. Protecting against cancer: according to the American Institute for Cancer Research, the apple provides protection against high food fiber content, colon cancer with vitamin C, larynx cancer, antioxidant content, and gastric and lung cancer. And because it contains vitamin E and C and is rich in antioxidants, it also provides a very serious protection against cataracts. It balances your blood sugar. It has been known for a long time that the apple reduces the risk of heart and vascular disease, such as congestion of the clot or plaque, arterial erection, hypertension, oxidative stress, vascular damage. The plenty of food fiber found in the apple strengthens our immune system. The food fibre also provides protection against constipation, but it also has a very important benefit for large bowel cancers. The apple containing antioxidants, vitamin A, vitamin E, and vitamin C delays the effects of aging on the skin. Riboflavin, which is vitamin B, protects the tiamine and vitamin B6 nervous system and increases the production of red blood cells. For these reasons, I advise the entire Turkish nation to consume the apple very well.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0130par0053	The apple takes the headache, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0129par0054	My fellow lawmakers, as EC PARTY governments, we've always encouraged agriculture; we've been there for our farmer, our producer. If you'll excuse some of the work we've done in our country, I'd like to share it with you. In 2002, agricultural support, with 1.8 billion Turkish liras, increased to 9.1 billion Turkish liras in 2014. In the last 13 years, the amount of cash grants for our farmers has increased by 5.5 times. In 2013-2014, 70 billion Turkish liras were paid in cash for agricultural support. When we ranked fourth in Europe in 2002 in terms of agricultural economic size, we became the first largest agricultural economy in Europe from 2008 to today. During the 2003-2014 period, we provided a total of 1.3 billion Turkish dollars for RD as part of the AG studies in agriculture. We built the world's third largest Seed Gen Bank. We've opened 13 advanced research, technology and education centres with state-of-the-art technology. It's a very important, very rich agricultural product that is produced in the very fertile land of our Mediterranean family, Mersin. I would like to briefly share with you the production of these products in Mersin: especially in our Taros, when the production of pears, apples, grapefruits, plums, apricots, apricots, lemons, tangerines, oranges, pomegranates, pomegranates, olives, olives, grapes; pears, almonds, walnuts, apples, plums, grapefruit, figs, apricots, lemons and tangerines, oranges, bananas, peaches, new worlds and grapes in the center of Mercury; in our center of Mercury, nuts, apples, plums, plums, grapefruits, figs, apricots, lemons, oranges, oranges, oranges, bananas, peaches, cherries, grapes, grapes, and grapes, olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, and olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, and olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, and olives, olives, olives, olives, olives, and olives, olives, and olives, olives, olives in particulars. When we look at Günnar, the Nutmeg, almonds, walnuts, apples, apricots, cherries and grapes; in our district of Aydıncik, walnuts, almonds, almonds, apples, plums, bananas, pomegranates, grapes, new worlds, olives, peanuts and citruses; in Bozyur, almonds, pears, walnuts, strawberries, apples, lemons, and bananas are produced. Finally, in our Anamur, especially in our banana city, Anamur, we produce very important agricultural products such as pears, avocado, almonds, walnuts, strawberries, oranges, lemons, cotton, peanuts. Dear MPs, I'd like to share with you some of the work done in the field of agriculture in Mersin. A record increase in agricultural support has indeed been achieved during the period of EC PARTY governments. In Mersin, we gave our farmers a total of 60.1 million Turkish liras of diesel support. We've paid 55.2 million Turkish lira fertilizer support, 2.2 million Turkish lira land analysis support. We've prevented our manufacturer from being negatively affected by the increase in fertilizer and diesel prices. My fellow lawmakers, in 2002, the premium support for Mersin was 999,000 Turkish liras, while in 2014, we raised that amount to 26.6 million Turkish liras. During the 2005-2015 period in Mersin, we paid $23.8m in Turkish lira to our producers using certified seedling and certified seedlings. The TAR-GEL Project will be with our farmers at every stage of production, and in Turkey, we have launched 172 agricultural advisers in Mersin. In Mersin, we have increased loan support for agricultural development co-ops by nine times in thirteen years. Dear lawmakers, agriculture is water. Water, the indispensable of the human body and human life. Thus, since more than 60 percent of the human body is water, our government has also made significant investments in the water area because most natural events are water. In the 1,000 days we've started across the country, Mersin also receives a share from the 1,000 Pond Project. As part of the project, we build 37 ponds and irrigation sites in Mersin. So, we're going to put water in the water for 83,710 pieces of water. We've completed 14 of these facilities, 16 of them construction, 7 of them projecting, and our projects are under way. In the last 13 years, we've done important work on the flood. As for appleism, Turkey ranks third in the world's rankings after China and the United States, producing 3 million 128, 450 tonnes of apples. The largest produced apple species are Starking, Golden, Amassia, Granny Smith. We, the AK PARTY government, know of the problems of our apple makers, of course, we know that there are problems. For their solution, we are planning a very important solution, including our Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, Mr. Faruk Çelik, and all other ministries, with all their problems in the immediate, mid-term and long term.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0131par0067	There's apples in the warehouse, apples in the warehouse, what do we do with it?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0129par0068	As I complete my statement, I respectfully express that we did not agree to this motion by the Republican People's Party, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0132par0070	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. In favor of the proposal, Baki Simsek, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0133par0074	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0132par0075	Mr. Akkaya, I've invited the speaker.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0134par0076	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Republican People's Party on behalf of the National Movement Group on a motion for research to determine the problems that the Republican People's Party has given and to determine the path map of the path ahead. I hereby salute the High Council. I celebrate Mother's Day for all mothers, especially the mothers of martyrs. 6 million hectares of Turkey's 78 million hectares of land are farms. In recent years, however, agricultural land has been unconsciously used in many of our provinces due to distorted urbanization. Again, an unscheduled and unhealthy construction brought about by population growth in our major cities due to migrations within the country has caused the use of agricultural fields unconsciously. Like all of our manufacturers, our apple makers are in trouble. Turkey, which is third in the world's production of apples, is unfortunately able to take the 23rd place in exports. Our province of Isparta meets about 25 per cent of the production of apples in Turkey alone. However, 70 per cent of the apples in the warehouse were not sold this year.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0135par0081	Just for the record, 15,000 tons of apples.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0134par0082	Apple exports are not at the desired level. Because of the frosting disaster in the past few months, the problems have increased. The damage to the Don disaster must be paid immediately. The government must take immediate measures to support exports in order to prevent apple trees from being cut down and to support the struggling apple maker. At this point, apple manufacturers expect to be actively passed on to export incentives, especially. Apples are produced in Isparta, Karaman, Niğde, Antalya, Kolya, Mersin, and many provinces. Because of the crisis with Russia, Iraq, Syria and all our neighbors, there is no country left to sell our property. In the domestic market, there is not enough consumption due to terrorism and instability in the east. In the short term, a farmer who can't sell his product should have government support, and if necessary, some products should be distributed to students in schools for free. Exporting companies must be supported, existing markets must be protected, the problem with Russia must be solved. The Turkish Republic must have new markets. Apple and apple juice consumption should be encouraged; export support should be increased. RD studies should be supported, new forms of disease-resistant disease-resistant. Organic growers should be supported. State support must be provided to meet energy needs with solar panels. Turkey, which is an agricultural country, should not import agricultural products, should support its own producer. Our government, who boasts of being native and national everywhere, must support our farmer. Even in the Supreme Assembly, we see chocolate bananas being sold; at least let us set an example for society, and let us consume the world's most beautiful banana, the Anamur banana. Mr. Speaker, I'd like to express this sensitivity to our executive superiors here. Dear lawmakers, when our country was one of the seven countries that had been able to sustain its agricultural products until recently, the recent supply of wrong policies in agriculture and agricultural products abroad, the fact that the manufacturers received the money from them as late as six months later caused our farmers to become insolved. In addition, when we add high gas prices and fertilizer prices, we can see more clearly where farming and production are coming from. In 2002, you always sample the year 2002 -- 1 litre of diesel 1 TL; in 2014 it was $4.5. So I ask you, in 2002, how much did the farmer owe the banks? Why don't you explain that? How much does the farmer owe the banks today? Farmers in Georgian district alone owe 200 trillion liras to the bank. Likewise, there have been huge increases in fertilizer prices, and in 2002, fertilizer was worth 162 euros, and in 2014, it was $550. We expect our Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Commerce to work immediately to pave the way for exports. The most important problems in agricultural production are input prices and marketing; fuel, fertilizer, medicine, electricity, and so on. The farmer must be given cheap diesel, and the price of electricity used in agricultural production must be reduced. Agricultural industry should be cared for, cold air tanks, juice factories should be built. Another important problem with marketing is that the manufacturer delivers their products from desperation to con artists. Because of the gap in the Czech Law, manufacturers are defrauded every year by con artists. The Czech Law must be changed urgently, the frauds must be sentenced to prison, or the banks must be increased in responsibility; they must not be given a check stub to anyone who stands in front of them. Dear lawmakers, even in an agricultural city like Mersin this time of year, it's 100 cents on the nose, 200 cents on the tomato, 150 cents on the beans, 50 cents on the cauliflower, 150 cents on the eggplant 150 cents on the nose. These products are being sold at such low prices, and they're increasing exponentially until they come to consumers. Fruit prices will be reduced to 100 cents in ten days if there are no precautions, no exports. Again, the wheat harvest in Mersin, my constituency, is about to begin, but the price of wheat has not yet been announced this year, as it has been every year. From here to our Minister of Agriculture, every year, after you go to the manufacturer's wheat merchant, you explain the price. The land crop office is buying wheat from the merchant. Set an example this year, explain a price that will make our farmer smile before the harvest begins. Every year, the number of people living in villages is reduced, the small farmer is running out, adding new ones to the unemployment army. Agricultural planning must be done, product diversity must be increased, products that we can consume and market. I, from here, thank the city of Mersin, who makes both agricultural irrigation and cold air storage, and also provides seed and seed support for our villagers. I expect the support of Mersin, who is the first in Turkey's age of produce and fruit production and exports; the incentives to the narc, to the narciatrist, to the narciatrist you paid in Rize, Izmir, Antalya, but not in Mersin. Many farmers cut down citrus trees. Unfortunately, another major problem for our farmers this year is drought. We're having the driest year of the last century. DSI General Directorate and regional directorates must plan water and, if necessary, ban second crop planting in troubled areas. Dear lawmakers, let's take care of the sweat of our farmers. Our farmers don't want much; cheap diesel, cheap electricity, cheap medicine, cheap fertilizer. He says find us a market. It's our job to take care of our people by making the right policies. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the High Council, thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0136par0095	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0137par0096	Mr. President, I have a request for my position.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0136par0097	Just a second, Mr. Brainy. Mr. Akkaya asked for a word earlier. Here you go, Mr. Akkaya.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0138par0099	Mr. President, at the start of his speech on the problems of the apple makers, he began his statement that we would celebrate Business Health Business Security Week next week. Occupational health is not a week to celebrate occupational safety, Mr. President. I'm just trying to fix it because it's a slip of the tongue, and he's a physician. The death of 17,000 workers in the work killings was not a week of celebration, but a week of celebration, when 17 apple workers died in that car accident in Yalvanç, while talking about the problems of the apple makers. I made a promise for him, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0136par0100	Thank you, Mr. Akkaya. It's in the transcripts. Here you go, wise guy.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0139par0104	Mr. President, thank you very much. I'd like to point out two things on this motion. That's right, on the night of April 23, 2015, there was a major frost disaster in Isparta. But not just apples, but roses, almonds, cherries, walnuts, all of them. But our government has moved quickly and has sent 30 million liras of support to Isparta, and for the first time in Isparta, its head has been distributed to our farmer and villager. One of the main challenges here is the TARSIM insurance. Of course, everyone had insurance on TARSIM, but since this happened without a flower, the TARSIM remained outside the scope. I want to correct a second piece of information. As stated, 60-70 per cent production is not true in the warehouses. The 2015 recital is 436 thousand tons. And there's about 17 to 18,000 tons of apples waiting in warehouses right now. Other than that, the whole apple has been sold. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0140par0109	Thank you, wise guy. Against the proposal, Mustafa Aggressor, Nevşehir MP. Here you go, Mr. Smarty-pants.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0141par0116	Mr. President, I salute you with respect, love and conversation, the precious Court, the esteemed MPs and loyal employees of our great House. May your day be blessed, blessed, and blessed. First of all, I ask God's mercy on our sainted martyrs, our heroic security forces, who have sacrificed their lives in terrorist operations, and I give thanks and thanks to our dedicated veterans. The eyes of those who covet our nation's brotherly, peaceful life will be removed, and the hands of those who extend will be broken, and they will continue to be broken. This nation has been subjected to severe trials throughout history, and has been able to eliminate all trials by Allah's permission, in unity and unity. Today's struggle is fought with seven heifers, the inner traitors and the evil centers of the Chanakkale spirit. May God continue our unity and brotherhood. I celebrate the Day of the Midwives of all the midwives. And as a father, I am grateful for the sacrifices they make at birth. I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party's motion to determine the problems involved in apple-making. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization, the world's production of apples was about 56 million tonnes in 2002 and 80.8 million tonnes in 2013. Again, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization, our country ranked third in the world production of about 3.1 million tons. Our country's production of apples reached 2.2 million tons in 2002, reaching 2.6 million in 2015, with an increase of 18.2 per cent in 2015, according to TİK 2015. Again, the cities of Isparta, Niğde, Karaman, Kayseri, Çanakkale, Antalya, Mersin, Kahramanmarash, Konya and Denizli have produced 72.3% of our total production. And that's again according to TİK data. Our country is first in the production of apples in the province of Isparta, producing 436,000 tonnes of apples in 226 thousand acres, with a 16.8 per cent share. The most produced species in our country are Starking at 38 percent, Golden at 25 per cent, and Amassian at 8 per cent. In 2002, the apple field, which was 1.5 million acres, was 1,714,098 in 2015. The number of apple trees in our country is a total of 70.7 million, including 52.3 million bearing fruit and 18.4 million bearing fruit, according to TİK 2015 data.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0142par0126	In the apple tree, Niğde is the first; not in the production, but in the tree, Niğde is the first.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0141par0127	I just said the production, not the apple tree, Congressman.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0142par0128	Niğde 1st in the apple tree.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0143par0129	Go on, Mustafa, go on.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0141par0130	Between 2005 and 2015, the manufacturer was paid $38.9m by building an apple garden in the area of 214,051 with standard plant use. In 2015, the manufacturer was paid $768,513 for an apple orchard in a 2.938-declared and standard seedling area in the province of Isparta. Our country's efficiency in apple products is 110.95 percent. Our exports of apples increased by 15,162 tons in 2002 and increased by 839 per cent in 2015 to 142.319 tonnes. In 2015, about $52,000 was paid for foreign currency. In 2002-2015, imports were reduced by 56.7 per cent, while exports increased by 838.7 per cent. In 2002 and 2015, exports declined by 11.4 per cent, while exports increased by 725 per cent. The kinds that we import apples are species outside of Golden. We import from Chile, America, Macedonia, Italy, France and Poland. Support practices based on the area and in the form of grants are being maintained by our ministry. In 2015, for producers who built at least 5 pot closed fruit gardens using dumpy and half-strength saplings, 150 euros per square root for standard sapling, $400 per grain per year for certified plant; for other fruit plants, 100 euro per pot for standard sapling, and 280 euro for certified sapling. Garden supports for industrial and exports and certified saplings include additional 50 per cent support application. As a direct impact on production and efficiency and chemical fertilizer and soil analysis supports the manufacturer for $4.85 per mazotta decar, $6.6 euro per turpentine, and for soil analysis, and $70 per pot per pot, while for organic agriculture, 50 euro per head for good agriculture. In 2015, producers who fight biological or biotech in production, including apples, are supported by $35 per decar. As part of rural development investment supports, 50 per cent of the project is given as a grant, including investments such as packaging, machine-teaming, cold storage. In accordance with the decision on low interest investment and business loans for agricultural production by agricultural and agricultural loans, low interest investment and business loans were used on the basis of the investment and business project. In support of rural development, entrepreneurial young farmers projects are supported. Young farmers living in the country between 18 and 40 will receive a grant of 30,000 euros per project for plant, animal, local agricultural products and the production of medical and aromatic plants. In the 2016 production year, real and legal people, except for public institutions and corporations, which are registered to the Farmer's Recording System (CNS), and the size of the business is 5 per cent or less, were given $100 small family support in 2016. I salute your high council. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE)
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0144par0141	Thank you, Mr. Smarty-pants. Mr. Tezcan. Mr. Tezcan has a request for a statement according to Article 60. Here you go, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0145par0146	Mr. President, thank you. Our CHP MP friend has been picking on me about business health and safety. In my speech, I stated that between May 4th and May 10th, Business Health and Safety Week is being celebrated. I used these phrases to draw attention to it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0146par0150	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. Yeah, I'll take a vote.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0147par0157	Mr. President, if you're going to vote, we demand a roll call.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit04spe0146par0158	There's a call request, so I'll do the roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Karabiyuk, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Aşaldın, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Akkuş Ilgezdi, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Akyıldım, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Bakr, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Yüksel, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Kaplan Hurriyet, Mr. Gekoğlu, Mr. Akkaya, Mr. Star Bicker. Yeah, I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit05spe0146par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the Republican People's Party Group voted on the proposal, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. Congressmans, the Republican People's Party Group proposal was the problems of apple production or apple producers. In the previous years of parliament, I remember very well, when an agricultural product was discussed here, the MPs would bring in samples of that agricultural product and show it to the General Board from the stand. At a meeting with the political group's MPs under the chairmanship of the Turkish Grand National Assembly on March 31st 2016, the General Kurula was decided that there would be no goods or goods. I see political party groups have carefully followed this agreement between the political party's deputy leaders. I thank all political party groups for that. This stance to avoid being brought to the General Assembly shows that political parties comply with the agreement. That's why I needed to thank you. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will begin negotiations with the 1st ranked Business Act and the Health, Family, Labor and Social Affairs Commission Report for the Amendment to Turkey's Employment Act. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Yesterday's merger concluded talks on the first chapter of Law Bill 170, which was considered the main law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. Members of parliament, there are four motions on Article 1 of the same property. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to come to Law 4857, which has been replaced by Article 7/7 of the Law on the Amendment to the Law of Turkey's Business Institution (BiH) Act 170, the current employee, after the 10th joke of the Law on the First Amendment, is to be a union member of the user employer's collective agreement in the workplace, or to pay for solidarity due to the extension of the joke, if the interim employee's employment is to continue after the end of the tenth joke on the contract of the 12th amendment, we will be responsible for the temporary employment worker's employment worker's employment contract, and for the exchange of social benefits from the employee's employment contract, and for the amount of social benefits. Baki Lightning Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Mustafa Mit Muharrem Varlı Ruhi Ersoy Erkan Haberal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the second clause (f) of Law 4857, which has been replaced by Article 1 (Icon of the Law on Change in the Law on the Business Institution of Turkey), shall be replaced in the following manner, adding the following sentences to the 11th joke, and adding the following joke to the article to come after this joke, to be identified according to this joke, and to change the "13th" of the existing joke. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Ramadan Can Yusuf Başer Üsnur Çýk Osman love Look Hasan Basri Kurt If the business's average production capacity for goods and services increases to the extent and unpredictably necessary to establish a temporary business relationship," he said. "The contract of employment with the temporary worker states that if the worker is not called to work within a period of time, he will be able to terminate the contract of employment for the right reason. That won't last three months." "In the interim work relationship established under the second joke (f), the employer who employs temporary workers is obliged to check every month whether temporary workers' wages are paid for over a month at work, while the private employment office is obliged to submit documents that show that the fee has been paid monthly to the employer who employs temporary workers. The employer, who employs temporary workers, has unpaid fees, pays not to pay for the private employment office until they are paid, but directly deposits temporary workers' wages to the bank account for up to three months, as long as the private employment office pays for them. Unpaid workers and non-payable wages are notified by the employer who employs temporary workers to the Employment and Business Institution County Directorate. Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1 of Article 1 of the Law shall be removed from the text of the 1st Article of the Law, which shall be adopted in accordance with Business Act 170 of Turkey's Employment Institution Act. With all due respect. 04/05/2016 Yakup Akkaya Ali Yiğit Tur Yıldız Bicer Cetin Arık Musa Pine Senal Sarıhan Ünal Demirtaş Fatma Kaplan Hurriyet The signatures of the other motion are: Çağlar Demirel Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Huda Kaya == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Does the commission agree with two proposals of the same nature? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit05spe0148par0064	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit05spe0146par0065	Yes, Mr. Mahmut Toğrul, MP of Gaziantep, who wants to talk first about proposals of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit05spe0149par0068	Is there such a thing in the charter, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit05spe0150par0069	We're talking about a matter about workers, of course it exists.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit05spe0151par0070	Is there such a thing, Mr. President? It's against the Civil Code, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit05spe0150par0071	Dear friends, I have made a commitment to my group's motion on the 1st amendment of the 170- row Bill of Law.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit05spe0151par0072	It's against the Civil Code, sir. There's Greg. He's saying, he's giving a speech, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit05spe0150par0073	It's a law of slavery, dear friends.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit05spe0151par0074	But there's Greg. He's saying, he's giving a speech, sir, there's been a mistake.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit05spe0150par0075	It's the law of slavery. This law has no legitimate, concrete grounds. With this law, public responsibility will be transferred to the private sector. With this law, the use of hired labor will be a rule, not an exception. Senior severance and annual sabbatical will be eliminated. Work life will get messy, insecure. The right to retirement will be revoked.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit05spe0151par0076	No boots, no boots.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit05spe0150par0077	The unemployment will not decrease, it will increase. They said we'll remove the crown. But the form will be changed.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit05spe0151par0078	He needs to wear boots. It's got to be a boat and a helmet.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit05spe0150par0079	Rental workers will be underpaid. Every day in our country, the work killings will increase. The unionization, which is already around 4-4.5%, will be destroyed. There will be a mobing at work, and people, workers, will be subjected to a Mobbinge every day. ▪ Transition status will no longer exist; it will continue. Seasonal workers and workers will be granted permanent status. It's supposed to increase women's employment. It's called women's employment, they're going to bend, dear friends. Dear friends, these laws are actually the process of completion of the coup process. The palace, which did not like the results of the election on June 7th, continues to establish the foundations of the step-by-step coup. First, the palace, which did not like the will of the people on June 7th, mortgaged the people's will by early elections, led the country to the elections in a war environment. Then he brought this slave law against the workers. Now, within the AKP, he has sought a government that will obey him 100%. His prime minister has changed not the people, unfortunately, but a zat; he will change the Council of Ministers again; he will even change the leadership of the AKP's party again. He wants to complete the coup by bringing this slave law to those who oppose this slave law, and to workers again, by bringing it to them now. Dear friends, when workers come out to the streets to challenge AKP's coup policy, they will be clubbed, gased and exposed to pressured water, against this law, which I have just counted. Every day, today workers live in the same fate on every street. In fact, it's not enough, dear friends, unfortunately, that by including the ISIS gangs they're hiring, when workers want to shout something in their favor, against the government, peace, work, bread, freedom, they're being bombed by ISIS gangs, workers are being slaughtered, workers are being slaughtered. On October 10th, in Ankara Gar Square, again in Gaziantep, on May 1st, again in Suruç, all these actions against young people, who are mostly students in Suruç, are all attempts to go out and destroy people's demands to say work, bread, freedom, street banning. We say that there is only one HDP in front of this coup, and now, with immunity, they will eliminate HDP and complete the coup. I'm just saying... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm glad there's a HDP in this country. Without the HDP in this country, these dictators would have completed their dictatorship. This HDP stands in the way of this. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit05spe0152par0088	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger. I'd like to invite the members of the group to my office.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0152par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're back to the talks of Bill 170. The commission is in place. The government is in place.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0153par0005	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0152par0006	Yes, Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0153par0009	Mr. President, Mr. Toğrul has been more than critical of us in his speech, he's made a principle-level taunt, which is a taunt against us at the same time. It's my belief that it's a challenge to all parties and to the vote they've taken from the people. Because the place that was accused, criticized, and alleged to have struck came by the will of the people. Is it the people who do the coup? So, did our people strike when voting for HDP, or did they strike when voting for CHP? What kind of logic is that? Moreover, the man who was referred to and referred to was repeatedly, by the will of the nation, who deserved it everywhere, with the legitimate legal votes of the nation.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0154par0010	Oh, yeah? Is that why you want to remove our immunity?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0153par0011	It's really nothing but a game of words, when you miss it and you say, "I'm going to go to the other side," and you're going to say, "I'm going to go to the other side."
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0155par0012	Look at the Prime Minister's statement.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0156par0013	Mind your own business!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0155par0014	We're already looking. That's the country's business.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0157par0015	That's our job.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0158par0016	In addition, on November 1st, the EC PARTY received 49.5 per cent of the vote as a result of the nation's confidence in the AK PARTY programme, its policy. It is not acceptable to describe the will and play of the nation as.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0159par0017	Take care of your Prime Minister, then.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0158par0018	First of all, the principle level is unacceptable.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0160par0020	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0161par0023	Mr. President, in terms of resolving an injustice, we need to state that, of course, Mr. Erdogan's vote is lawful, and no one says "haram vote." But as the polls go to the polls both June 7th and November 1st, the joint ballot has the names of the heads of political parties under the symbols of political parties. Thus, on November 1st, 23 million votes were approved by Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu of the Justice and Development Party in the last election. I wanted him on the record.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0162par0025	Yes, it's lawful, of course, all votes are lawful, the lawful votes of our people, valid for everyone.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0163par0026	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0164par0028	Mr. President, I didn't say a word to the will that the public put forth in my entire speech. I just wanted to say that despite the will of the people, the only person who changed the picture that came out was a civilian coup. The Prime Minister's statement on this also confirms that I am not going willingly. Let this be on the record.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0163par0029	Yes, thank you, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0165par0030	It's clear what the Prime Minister is saying, there's no such explanation.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0163par0031	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. On the other proposal of the same nature, Mr. Fatma Kaplan will speak. Here you go, Mr. Tiger Liberty.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0166par0038	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers to make a amendment to the Turkish Business Institution Act. I salute the General Assembly. In fact, what we're talking about today is not a change of the Business Code, but an attempt to revere the most dishonorable act of humanity, slavery and slave trade. It's not safe to trust the course of the one who's alive, dear friends, and I'm afraid you don't trust your course. You said, "We will remove the crown." You said, while our workers were waiting for good news in the subcontractors, they were confronted with your tricks, and you're trying to bring a broker, a more reactionous order than the subcontractor system. You're trying to turn the country from subcontractor republic into a slave republic. You're disrupting the country's course and trying to sink the country's ships because you're going to make your followers swim. Your growing goals are only aimed at raising the rich, and the reason you want to bring this bill up is because you want to raise the rich again. You and your boss class, who have spread the subcontractory system as much as they can, want to make workers slaves through the flexible and uncompromising work of a labor broker. So, why is this bill of law slavery? See, the definition of hiring workers in the article is not even defined by the second joke (d). The fourth joke mentions a partial protective sentence, but there was a question asked to the Minister by our party's fellow deputies in the commission talks. In particular, can subcontractors work for subcontractors in mining businesses such as Soma, Ermenek? So the fourth joke, unfortunately, has nothing to do with protecting it. And here you are cheating again.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0167par0042	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0166par0043	Private employment offices will hire workers and will be able to hire workers daily or hourly to the company who wants them, not for more than six months. The worker will receive his wages from the office, and the employer who hires and hires the worker will have no obligation, and the employee will return to the employment office on which he is hired and will wait to be hired to a new firm, which will, unfortunately, put the job on hold. Slavery offices, which will merge with the subcontractory system, will further destroy staffed labor, remove the uncertain employment contract, the employee's right to seniority and reporting compensation, and in this context, job security, and, unfortunately, control the entire lives of the workers. There will be no unionisation, and the worker will be deprived of the rights brought under collective contract of employment and will be subjected to more mobbins. Of course, if this bill becomes legal, retirement will be a dream. Especially considering the average life expectancy of men and women, men will have to work even in the grave, and women will have left this world before they can get their first paycheck. Again, hired workers will have to pay a premium for health care. It will be difficult for the sick renter to receive the report's money and for the unemployed hired worker to receive unemployment allowance. More work accidents, more job killings, more occupational illness, this bill, and I'm afraid it's going to give the employer plenty of access to breaches. In five or ten square meters of offices, the workers in suits will turn the workers into modern, paid slaves. But we do congratulate you on one thing, of course, especially after the rental of goods and goods, you added a person who means the dictionary of the word "priority" and we applaud you, friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Finally, no one will be a slave chained to you and your bosses in the present or in the future. To exploit the working class, to fill the pockets of your allies and capital, we call it a huge no. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0168par0052	Thank you, Mr. Tiger Liberty.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0169par0053	The people said no to you on November 1st, and the people said no to you on November 1st, in the chest.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0170par0054	The nation voted for Davutoglu.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0169par0055	No, people told you, "No." He said, "The ruling AK PARTY."
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0170par0056	You ate him.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0171par0057	Just a second, members of the law... Mr. Altay, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0170par0061	I've requested a roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0171par0062	Yes, there is a request for a roll call before voting on two motions of the same nature. Therefore, I will perform the roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Akkaya, Mr. Karabık, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Akadil, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Yıldız Biceniz, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Çayak, Mr. Gök, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Kaplan Hurriyet, Mr. Budak, Mr. Torun, Mr. Akar, Mr. Gökdağ. Yeah, I'm starting the roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the second clause (f) of Law 4857, which has been replaced by Article 1 (Icon of the Law on Change in the Law on the Business Institution of Turkey), shall be replaced in the following manner, adding the following sentences to the 11th joke, and adding the following joke to the article to come after this joke, to be identified according to this joke, and to change the "13th" of the existing joke. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends If the business's average production capacity for goods and services increases to the extent and unpredictably necessary to establish a temporary business relationship," he said. "The contract of employment with the temporary worker states that if the worker is not called to work within a period of time, he will be able to terminate the contract of employment for the right reason. That won't last three months." "In the interim work relationship established under the second joke (f), the employer who employs temporary workers is obliged to check every month whether temporary workers' wages are paid for over a month at work, while the private employment office is obliged to submit documents that show that the fee has been paid monthly to the employer who employs temporary workers. The employer, who employs temporary workers, has unpaid fees, pays not to pay for the private employment office until they are paid, but directly deposits temporary workers' wages to the bank account for up to three months, as long as the private employment office pays for them. Unpaid workers and non-payable wages are notified by the employer who employs temporary workers to the Employment and Business Institution County Directorate. Does the commission agree with the motion? Sir, we're leaving it up to appreciation. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0172par0082	We agree.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0173par0083	Motive...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0171par0084	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to ensure a temporary work-related relationship of the need for labor force, which has been created due to the rise in business or business volumes, and guarantee the temporary wages of employees working within this scope for three months. The salary paid by the temporary employer is limited to three months, considering that the office's authority will be revoked, which has failed to fulfill its obligation to pay the fee three times. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0174par0090	Request roll call.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0171par0091	There's got to be a roll call. I'll make the call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Karabık, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Akadil, Mr. Akak, Mr. Akar, Mr. Yıldız Bicer, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Kaplan Hurriyet, Mr. Altaca Kayşoğlu, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Karadeniz, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Budak, Mr. Torun, Mr. Gökdağ. Initiating roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to come to Law 4857, which has been replaced by Article 7/7 of the Law on the Amendment to the Law of Turkey's Business Institution (BiH) Act 170, the current employee, after the 10th joke of the Law on the First Amendment, is to be a union member of the user employer's collective agreement in the workplace, or to pay for solidarity due to the extension of the joke, if the interim employee's employment is to continue after the end of the tenth joke on the contract of the 12th amendment, we will be responsible for the temporary employment worker's employment worker's employment contract, and for the exchange of social benefits from the employee's employment contract, and for the amount of social benefits. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor (Heromarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0175par0109	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0171par0110	Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, Alderman of Kahramanmarash, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0176par0113	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the MHP Group regarding the motion on Article 1 of the Law Bill 170. On this occasion, I salute you and our beloved nation who are watching us on the screen. Dear MPs, yesterday we announced our views on the entire bill. Many times, friends have expressed their views here. But I'd like to connect with the flexible study by referring to another subject. Now, according to the social security agency's statistics and official data, from December 2015 to January 2016, in a month's time, there have been 384,155 reductions in the mandatory insurance policy, which we refer to as an active insurance policy. Overseas community insurance, although not many, has a decline again, around 343. There is also a lack of employment in agriculture around 4.810. When we collect these, around 390,000 A-insurancers are out of the system within a month. The number of pensioners this month has increased by 22.764. A global account, a simple account, is that we received 500 lira bonuses from each of them, we paid $1,000 per pensioner. When we think about it, the financial burden of approximately 215 million pounds of Social Security has increased. The same is true of BUG-KUR insurance holders. In the BÜG-KUR, the total employment in December 2015 fell from 2m938,334, to 2m907,167, over a month in January 2016. So 30,867 BUG-KUR is out of the system in a month, and the shutdown is closed. This is the financial burden of around 15 to 20 million Social Security Institutions, when we calculate the price of 500 lira per month, at a cost of 1,000 lira a month. As officers, the situation is stable when you look at it as 4/C. 1,134 people have entered the system and 963 people have retired. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to say that a reduction in employment in an insured month between December and January is close to 390,000. In the process, the number of pensioners increased by 22.764. There is a loss of about 220 million. The situation of the BUG-KUR is not very different. Within a month, 30,000 BUG-KURL shut down, went out of the system. When we put retired people in the system during this time, the Social Security Agency has increased a premium of around $17 million. As a result, in just a month's time, about 420,000 people have been out of the system, 4/A/A/B, and 4/B. When you look at it financially, the loss of the institution is around 250 million. The burden of the Social Security Agency, which is already under financial stress, has increased dramatically. The great tribulations of tourism, a busy industry, will not be enough to ease that burden. This is a serious situation, a clear proof that this economy can't produce work and work, and it needs to be seriously focused on. Just because the flexible law is passed, no employer will invest. The flexible law is not a means of revitalising the economy. Our wish is that the flexible structure does not make the present serious situation worse; our wish is that the law is not abused. It can be argued that this was happening conjuncturally in the past years. The numbers are extremely low, and the situation in the economy is extremely bad. I say it can be worsened by abuse of the flexible law, and it must be seriously addressed, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0177par0118	Thank you, Mr. Tor. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0178par0122	We have a roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0177par0123	Of course. Mr. Altay, Mr. Karabık, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Akadın, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Bektaşoglu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Star Bicçer, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu, Mr. Kaplan Hurrriyet, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Bacheloroğlu, Mr. Akar, Mr. Arik, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Çamer, Mr. Çam. Initiating roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. There are three motions on the 2nd article, two of which are the same property. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the declaration of "home or technological means of communication" be removed from the text in the first joke envisioned in Article 2 of Article 4857, which shall be added to Article 14 of Article 14 of the Law, under the Common Business Act 170. Kamil Aydın mind Openba Fahrettin Oğuz Tor İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Ruhi Ersoy Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to file the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read two proposals of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Article 2 of the Law shall be removed from the text of the Law under which there will be amendments to the Turkish Business Institution Act. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Şenal Sarıhan Ali Yiğit Cetin Arık Tur Star Reaper Musa Pine The signatures of the other motion are: Çağlar Demirel Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Diriyet Taşdemir Sibel Yiğitalp Nursel Aydoğan Huda Kaya Does the Commission agree with two proposals of the same nature? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0179par0163	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0177par0164	The first speaker on two proposals of the same nature is Huda Kaya, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0180par0167	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, first of all, I was actually going to do my speech last night about the night before last that was celebrated as Mirac night. In fact, the reason why I share with you a verse not in the Qur'an, but in the fact that it is the night of Israel is because the whole code of peace, social peace, peace of the earth, peoples, and the peace of the faith is in the 1st verse of Israel. I will read it immediately: God, who led his servant by night to walk through the Holy Mosque, and to show him some of our signs, and our signs, and our decisive worlds, and to the Holy Mosque, which We have blessed, and to the Holy Mosque, and to the Holy Mosque, and to Solomon's sanctuary, and to the Holy Mosque, and to the Holy Mosque, which is far away from its sanctuary, is the one that has no limit in its glory; and I hope that we will be among those who can understand the codes of universal peace. Dear friends, today is May 5th, and I'd like to use a small sentence about the Day of the Midwives. First of all, in those labor pains of our women, with the most beautiful sense of duty, I celebrate with all my heart the days of our people, our women, who helped deliver the babies born with a human, conscientious conscience. But, as in all professions, we also face wrong practices in midwifery, aware that no profession, no human, no position, no office will be blessed. I'd like to point out that if we give one of the examples that we've witnessed, we've got a midwife who doesn't do her duty when she's in labor and you're giving birth, you're giving birth to women, you're sending children to the organization.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0181par0171	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0182par0172	That's all it takes, that's all it takes!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0180par0173	Dear friends, dear lawmakers, I've been promised today to discuss the 2nd Amendment to Business Act 170 and the Law on Turkey's Business Institution. You know, while we were hoping that the subcontractorship would be lifted during the ruling period, unfortunately, we were faced with a bill that allowed all the workers, workers, to mortgage their lives, to open the offices of slavery. To illustrate, as we live in today's poor neighborhoods, a 3D problem that we face today is on the agenda of all of us, the people of Turkey, while our people are waiting for the 2D problem to be resolved. Special Employment Offices are branch offices for temporary business affairs, subsidiary offices. It is the bill of the poor, the needy, the sweat of their foreheads, the body, and the labor of their labor, to pursue others with the understanding of a black-marketer. This bill destroys the equality of opportunities for employees. Senior compensation, pension rights are being destroyed, rights to organize are being destroyed. There was always this time in Turkey... where I'd like to retire. I'd like to go on a pilgrimage. I'll be retired. I'll invest. I can't see anyone around anymore. In return for people's hard work, a severance package is now a dream. Freedom of will -- according to Article 48, freedom of labour and contract -- is being destroyed in the Constitution, even though everyone has the freedom of work and contract; the labor of the worker is being reduced to the exploitation of others, some environments. The workers are being abandoned at the mercy of the office of slavery. While the world is playing out the lengths of capitalism, our ruling friends, our executives, who define themselves in Turkey as guardians, religious people, are taking all the spaces of our lives and turning them into a sellable space. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm out of time, but I just want to make one thing clear. And there are three kinds of men whom Allah and His Apostle reproache: one of them breaks his promise, and two of them breaks his promise, and one of them devours his money as a slave, and one of them works and does not pay his wages. God does not blame the blameworthy ones. May your conscience see these truths. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0183par0179	Thank you, Mr. Rock. The second speaker on similar proposals is Tur Star Biçer, Manisa MP. Here you go, Mr. Star Reaper.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0184par0183	Mr. President, members of the law, I have made a commitment on the motion we made regarding Article 2 of the Law on the Work Law and the Amendment to Turkey's Business Institution Act. I salute you all. This bill aims to allow private employment offices to establish temporary employment and to bring in flexible practices that include working at home under the name of long-distance work. Members of parliament, I would like to point out to these three words here in particular, from a distance, and from a distant place, and from a distant place. Adeta, the bill of these words, which do not contain the concept of time and space, are completely uncertain. The wolf likes the misty air. This bill directly violates the Constitution's 48, 49, 50, 51, 53, 54, 55, 60. This work has been prepared with a low-down approach, as has been done by no trade union, as has been done by the AKP in all its other actions. Article 2 of the bill is a home - axisd study, especially in which women will be victims of intensive rights violations, in cases of unregistered and heavy labor. Home-based work will deprive workers, especially women, of social security and organisation. In contrast, it will reduce the cost of the employer, such as rent, water, electricity costs; it also aims to reduce the cost of services, food fees, day care, holidays, and shifts, which it is obliged to offer to workers. It will not be possible to control and control chemicals, equipment, and buildings in these homes in terms of occupational diseases and infectious diseases, which will reveal their health and safety fitness. In short, it is not possible to discuss occupational health, labour health, and occupational safety in a home-axis study. The amount of work will include very long hours, and even the elderly and children at home will have to help by completely ignoring their health, and they will have to attend to work, and the lack of money that is earned will compel women to work for very long periods of time. Home-axis work... the AKP, who has never been able to stand to see our women walk down the street, will once again lock them up in the house, locking them in the house because of the house work and the work that has to be done at home, and once again consolidating gender inequality. Also, girls who have had to help their mothers will fail to study and girls will be deprived of education. The strangest thing about this substance is that the control and inspection of working at home are not possible according to the existing legislation. Because business inspectors of the Ministry of Labor can't enter and inspect people's homes without permission and without a court order. However, is the goal here to create unsupervised sub-strength factories, just like the unsupervised Ensar Foundation homes? In a nutshell, AKP power has done its best to eliminate the rights of workers. Therefore, we are principlely opposed to this bill, which violates the Constitution and international contracts, laying the groundwork for slavery and human trafficking in the Middle Ages, and we demand that Turkey withdraw from the Grand National Assembly immediately. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0185par0193	Thank you, Mr. Star Reaper.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0186par0196	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0185par0197	Perhaps I won't vote, Mr. Demirel. I will submit two motions of the same nature to your votes. There's a request for roll call. So I'm going to do the roll call. Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Toğrul, Mr. Ayşe Acar Başaran, Mr. Yiğitalp, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Ocalan, Mr. Özbükçe Ertan, Mr. Irgat, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Yilker, Mr. Zeydan, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Kadri Yıldırım, Mr. Dora, Mr. Taşçier. Initiating roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I'm having the other motion read. We're wasting some time passing through system roll call mode to other modes. That's why we're waiting. Mr. Clerk, the Member has no responsibility. I consider it my duty to express it. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the declaration of the Turkish Business Institution shall be removed from the text in either the home or the technological communication tool in the first joke envisioned in Article 2 of Article 4857, which shall be added to Article 14 of the Law. İsmail Faruk Aksu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0187par0217	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0185par0218	İsmail Faruk Aksu wants to talk about the motion, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0188par0221	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on the 2nd article of Law Bill 170, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, with the respect of the General Assembly and our beloved nation. It is envisioned to include the form of working from a distance to work on a call defined in Article 1457 of the Work Law. Remote work is that the worker performs work outside the workplace as part of the business organisation created by the employer. The worker is in production at his home, usually at his home, without the employer's supervision, where he chooses from a contract in the form of this work. The world's technological, economic, and social changes have also made remarkable improvements in working relations, economic life, labor-related relations, and policies that have been implemented. In the face of diversified demands and shorter production and marketing time, businesses have changed their current structure for standard production and felt the need for new developments and competitive construction. The impact of flexible employment styles on the labour market is seen in the most working and employment forms. These forms of employment have significantly changed classical labor-employee relations, working place, time and conditions. Law 4857 has yet to find common practice because new forms of employment, which have entered our business legislation in a more specific way, are unable to establish a trust to convince social parties and cannot be adopted in accordance with the legislation. While the duration of the service contract is recognised to the parties, it is common for the employer to use short-term service documents to remove the worker's job security. Dear lawmakers are presented as a method of reducing unemployment in flexible types of employment. Indeed, in countries and times of economic conjuncturality, where unemployment is a pure quality, part-term work relieves labour pressure in the business market. But the way to create employment is to make productive investments. Turkey could not create a healthy investment, production and employment chain. Therefore, unemployment cannot be reduced. In countries where unemployment, such as Turkey, is due to structural reasons, hiring part-time staff instead of full-time employment can lead to an increase in unemployment, without any changes in job efficiency. The employment of women workers in the form of partial work reduces their bargaining powers, preventing them from taking advantage of some social rights. If the application fields and connections between jobs are not well defined, the working order can be completely disabled. The integration and integration of the workplace can be difficult, the tendency to create new ideas for the development of the work and to strive for it remains secondary. This is the best way to get workers out of social security, with a high rate of non-union. On the other hand, this type of work also means getting away from the typical form of employment and the assurances that this employment style offers to the worker. Dear lawmakers, it's almost like an attempt to exploit workers' rights to enter into the working life of atypical employment forms. While safe flexibility is expected to relieve this anxiety, the job security remains the most important problem in practice. In working life, we reject the ability to do what we want to do against the worker and the understanding that it is a means of exploitation. Flexibility is not unconstitutional, but it is also mandatory that it be taken under strict guarantees by law. The bill we are negotiating does not satisfy our hesitations, does not foresee effective control, control and job security to follow the process, does not meet the need for deterrent responses to abuse. In our opinion, this bill should have come to Parliament with the active participation and alliance of relevant social parties. As the National Movement Party, we expect that the rights of employees and the balance of working life will be maintained. Our party will take back the rights of our workers and will not support any attempt to victimize them. With these thoughts, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0189par0234	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0190par0237	Request roll call.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0189par0238	All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0191par0239	There were roll call demands, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0190par0240	That was fast, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0189par0241	I can't hear you, Mr...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0190par0242	You passed too fast.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0189par0244	I don't hear you at all. If you've requested a roll call, Mr. Demirel, I've already taken a vote.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0192par0245	We were found before we passed.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0190par0246	Mayor, we got up before we could.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit06spe0189par0247	A little more, maybe, a little louder. Yes, I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... Article 2 is accepted. It's 21 o'clock for the merger. I'm taking a break until 00.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0189par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're back to the talks of Bill 170. The commission is in place. The government is in place. There are three motions on the third article, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the sentence added to the second joke of Article No. 4857 of Article 63 of the Law on the Amendment to the Turkish Business Institution Act, we propose that the six months of the month shall be changed to four months, which is included in the sentence added to the second joke of Article 63 of the Law. Kamil Aydın mind Openba Fahrettin Oğuz Tor İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Ruhi Ersoy Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Mehmet Günal Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to file the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 of Article 3 of the Law shall be removed from its text. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Şenal Sarıhan Ali Yiğit Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Tur Yıldız Bçer Musa Çam Signed by the same motion: Çağlar Demirel Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Sibel Yiğitalp Suryet Taşdemir Nursel Aydoğan Erol Dora Does the Commission participate in the same motions? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0193par0033	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0189par0034	I'll give my word to those who have motions for the same kind of motions. The first speaker is Erol Dora, Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0194par0038	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the 3rd Amendment to the Law on Business Act 170 and the Law on Turkey. I salute the General Assembly. This article envisions an arrangement for the working hours of workers working in the tourism sector. I would like to take this opportunity to mention some data on working hours in Turkey. Dear lawmakers, a full-time worker in Turkey is employed six days a week except for a day off. The same worker is employed on average for ten hours a day. A simple calculation is that an employee working in the private sector in Turkey operates 60 hours a week and about 3,000 hours a year. In OECD countries, a full-time worker is employed about 40 hours a week and about 2,000 hours a year. According to actual data not shown in all distortions, a Turkish worker is employed over 1,000 hours more a year than a worker in OECD countries. These figures reveal the dire environment in Turkey in terms of the working hours of workers. Dear lawmakers, this bill allows private employment offices, which were originally organised in 2003, to be able to now hire and employ employees under the name of temporary business affairs, four, eight, twelve months, or indefinitely, according to the nature of the work. So we're dealing with a series of regulations that will end up against employees in many issues, such as working hours, job guarantees, wages, pension rights. An important part of the attacks on workers, workers, producers' interests is this bill for the implementation of hired workers in the AKP government programme. It is nothing more than the expression of a hostile attitude toward labour, which will bring back many of the rights of workers that have been earned, which will promote unregistered work, which will prevent the already paralyzed unionisation, which will increase the work killings altogether. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have become Turkish workers during the AKP period, the least successful, the most dead, the most unorganised workers. According to OECD data, the share of workers' income in Turkey for thirteen years has dropped from 45 per cent to 30 per cent. I mean, the economy grew up not for the laborers who created the value, but for the capital that exploits them. The minimum wage is 1,300 euros, while the hunger limit is 1,390 euros, while the poverty limit is 4,400 euros. According to OECD 2013 data, Turkey is at the end of the list at 4.5 per cent. In 2002, when the AKP came to the government, the unionisation rate was 9.5 per cent, down to 4.5 per cent. This data is clear evidence that the rights to organise employees during the AKP period have been seized and blocked. Honourable lawmakers are asked to destroy social and union guarantees, such as job guarantees, employment guarantees, income guarantees and pensions. In order to work securely, it is up to effective rules to ensure union rights, to fully recognise social security rights, to prevent discrimination at work, to provide effective protection against layoffs, and to base the workforce's will on the division of work. Otherwise, when the law is being drafted, the views of the unions have been completely ignored here. The bill did not hold the Constitution and international contracts. Dear MPs, the House must represent the working people. Lawmakers who have come to parliament after receiving 85% of the citizens of Turkey who live below the poverty line have no right to make laws against the people that will have consequences against the workers. It is not the duty of this House to protect the rich and make the people even poorer. On this basis, I invite lawmakers to oppose this provision that will make the people even poorer, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0195par0048	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Nurhat Altaca Kayışoğlu wants to talk about the other proposal of the same nature. Here you are, Mr. Altaca Kayşoglu.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0196par0052	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on Article 3 of the Law on Trade Act 170 and Amendments to the Turkish Business Institution Act. The name of this law is passed in public by the law of Kiraral work, or by the law of the law of semantics, or by the law of slavery. I'm speaking to my fellow members of the AKP in particular, who will soon come running from outside and raise their hands, but I'm sure they don't know what they're up against. I want to explain it to you. Yeah, you know what this third article brings, guys? Two months in the Employment Act, the exception of the equivalence period is four months in the tourism sector. It means that workers in tourism will work six days, seven days, 11 hours a day, and will not receive overtime. When you hit the moon, you'll get about a month's wages. Workers didn't take their overtime by raising their fingers in halls like this. Workers have been fighting for hundreds of years to get these social rights in return for their efforts. So you have no right to take those winnings back with your fingers, you know that. Yes, I'm afraid you've messed up the tourism industry with your mistakes in foreign policy. On the one hand, you're bringing backup, and you're billing people who work in the tourism industry. It was said, yes, in 2009, Abdullah Gul said that he was going to create labor abuse and create situations that were unbecoming in human honor. Yes, it is unbecoming because you're bringing private employment offices to hire workers as property to the employer. Now, in practice, there's already a modern system of slavery called subcontractors, which is called subcontractors, and you know it's illegal to employ subcontractors in real business, but the law is being run by subcontractors in all areas. You promised you'd take it, but you bring worse. Now, regarding this bill, Mr. Secretary says: "Sir, the borders are set, this will not be applied everywhere, in certain areas, in certain business conditions." But, just as the law has been passed around in this system, so this system of slavery will be generalized and generalized by the law, and it will go far further back. They've already had private employment offices since 2003, and the Minister said it yesterday, around 445. But they were just putting together the worker and the employer, not being on the side of the contract, and now the side of the contract is going to be these offices, and they're going to sentence the workers to minimum wage to make more profit. There's more to this bill than counting. For example, private employment offices are not given any conditions except collateral. And that guarantee is that the workers... for example, the private employment office, which will hire a thousand workers, if it's malicious, if it doesn't pay, they won't get the workers' wages, they won't get the workers' wages, and they'll get the labor theft. Private employment offices will not know the conditions of their employment, work accidents will multiply at workplaces, and efficiency will be reduced because workers are constantly changing jobs. Look, you're uncomfortable with the fact that the longer we ask for a roll call, the more you go from here to there, but you sentence the workers to work there for four months, three months, two months. This is a situation that does not suit the honor of mankind. There's no time limit and it's open to abuse. There are no guarantees, social rights, insurance, unfortunately, when the worker is not working. In our country, 80 per cent of employers employ 10 per cent and less workers, so that law will be enforced at 80 per cent workplaces and will employ hired workers. Like we just said, maybe they're going to reduce the jobs that work more to ten, open up two businesses, and let the hired workers do their job with no responsibilities. There may be slavery in your soul, but you can't impose this slavery on the workers, you can't put shackles on the foot of the workers. This law really leaves the workers with nothing to lose but their chains, and we're gonna say no to this slave system.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0197par0063	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0198par0064	Thank you, Mr. Altaca Kayışoglu. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0197par0066	There may be slavery in your spirit. I reject his testimony once, and I return it to you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0199par0068	We're returning it.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0200par0069	Would you really say that if you knew the inside of the law?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0197par0070	Second of all, 1848, it would be ignorance to repeat that last sentence of Marx, which was written in the book of Manifesto, in today's world, in Turkey.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0200par0072	What is it to bring this law in today's Turkey?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0201par0073	Mr. President, there's teasing, he said there's ignorance.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0202par0074	According to our friend 69, there's... there's bullying.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0203par0075	Here you are, Mr. Altaca Kayşoglu. I give you my word for two minutes for bullying.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0204par0079	Again, in the words of Abdullah Gul, I say this law is not worthy of man's honor. This law will cause labor exploitation. With this law, we're going to live those scenes, the film of Kemal Sunal. Yeah, we're going to live in a modern state, maybe not in the circumstances of that century. Maybe he won't actually be chained to the arms of those workers, but he'll hire employees and employees who will contract private employment offices in those offices, one square metre, six square feet -- whatever. The worker won't know how much he'll get, and the employee's insurance won't sleep if the employer's working time is over. What is this called, not slavery?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0205par0080	You're doing demagogue.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0204par0081	I'm asking you, Mr. Bostanci, what is this called, not chaining? Now, from that day forward... yes, in the circumstances of that day, the hours were 12 hours, 14 hours, too long, and the workers struggled. There were no actual chains at the time, maybe, but they got overtime as a result of that struggle, they earned severance pay, and they earned retirement rights as a result of that struggle. Now, are you taking back these rights with this bill or not? So you're condemning the workers to the conditions of that period or not? Then what's this one called? It's called modern slavery. We don't use it to go to the market and sell it like ISIS does, I say hire workers, take sides in the contract, private employment offices, really, modern slavery. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0206par0086	Thank you, Mr. Altaca Kayışoglu. I submit two motions of the same nature to your votes...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0207par0091	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0208par0092	Yes, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0207par0093	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0209par0094	You've taken a vote, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0207par0095	What did you pass, Mayor? There's more than enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0210par0096	No. Just a second, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0207par0097	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0211par0098	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0210par0099	One decision is enough...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0212par0100	The vote has begun.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0210par0101	Sir, the vote has not begun. I'm going to grant that request because there's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions before I finish my sentence.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0213par0102	May I say something, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0210par0103	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0213par0104	Can I say something?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0210par0105	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0213par0106	Your friends have started voting, and you have not asked for a sufficient number of decisions. They have such claims. However, the other day at the General Assembly again, a AKP (AKP) parliamentary deputy found out whether or not it was requested, and then applied.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0214par0107	How eager you are to close, to close!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0213par0108	I mean, friends object all the time.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0215par0109	Thank you, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0216par0110	We'll be here till morning, we'll work, don't worry.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0215par0111	It's okay, it could be, it could be objections. These are natural events. I'll submit the motions to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motions... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the sentence added to the second joke of Article No. 4857 of Article 63 of the Law on the Amendment to the Turkish Business Institution Act, we propose that the six months of the month shall be changed to four months, which is included in the sentence added to the second joke of Article 63 of the Law. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor (Heromarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0217par0121	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0215par0122	Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP who wants to talk about the motion. Mr. Günal, I don't think so.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0218par0124	Motive...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0215par0125	I'm reading the reason: The period of tourism in our country is 15 May-15 September, and with the exception of those dates, domestic tourism will also reduce tourist density, so I will be able to increase four months in collective business contracts. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0219par0129	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0215par0130	No, this time I submit to your votes... you requested it after you said it, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0219par0132	Yes, yes, Mr. President. Aye, aye, aye, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0220par0133	No objections from us.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0215par0134	There's plenty of opportunities, we can do it all the time.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0221par0135	We're not waiting for the opportunity, Mayor, we're handing over the right, the law.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0215par0136	Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 3 to your votes...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0222par0140	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit07spe0215par0141	Yes, there is a request for a roll call. I'll do the roll call. Mr. Akar, Mr. Akkaya, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Kaplan Hurriyet, Mr. Arik, Mr. All, Mr. Bektasoglu, Mr. Çamak, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Blackdeniz, Mr. Torun, Mr. Budak, Mr. Altaca Kayşoğlu, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Pine, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Demir, Mr. Topal. Initiating roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0215par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. III. Exposure There was not enough attendance in the roll call before the vote of Article 3 of the 170 rows of the Bill of Law. Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[The electronic device started the inspection.]] Mr. President, time's up.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0223par0008	No, that compass is not valid. No way! What a shame, what a shame! Time's up!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0215par0009	Congressmans, calm down, I'm here, please...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0223par0010	Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0215par0011	Congressmans, please, sir... Now, we're comparing the electronic device to the voters' ballots. I'll let you know whether there are multiple votes or not. [[Investigation continued with electronic device]] Congressmans, I'm going to check now to see if the MPs who voted on the ballot are in the General Assembly lounge. Mr. Ayhan Yaz, Çanakkale? No. Mr. Ahmet Sami Ceylan, Çorum? Here. Mr Mehmet Erdem, Aydın? Here. Mr. Serkan Bayram, Erzincan? Here. Mr. Sebahattin Karakelle, Erzincan? Here. Dear Smurf Ünal, Istanbul? No. Mr. Nurettin Nebati, Istanbul? Here. There's enough for a meeting. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Article 3 is accepted. We're back to the talks of Bill 170. The commission and the government are in place. Congressmans, there are four motions on the 4th article, two of which are the same property, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 1st joke (a) of Article 99 of Law 4857 (a), (c) and (d) in which the law shall be changed by the 170 rows under the Law on Business Foundation of Turkey (b) shall be replaced by Article 4 (e.g. the first article of the Law) (a), (a) and (d) terms of the 100 (i.e., i.g., i.g. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Open your mind Kamil Aydın İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Baki Simsek Spiritual Ersoy Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the following joke to Article 4957 of Law 4857, which has been replaced with Article 4 of the Law on the Amendment to the Turkish Business Institution Act. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Ramadan Can Yusuf Başer Üsnur Çýk Osman love Look Hasan Basri Kurt The employer or employer deputy who acts against the second joke (f) of the 7th article is subjected to four times the fine imposed on the first joke (b). Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of Article 4 of the Law shall be removed from the text of the Law under which there will be amendments to the Law of the Turkish Business Institution. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Şenal Sarıhan Ali Yiğit Tur Yıldız Bicer Çetin Arık Ünal Demirtaş The signatures of the other motion are: Çağlar Demirel Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Diriyet Taşdemir Sibel Yiğitalp Nursel Aydoğan Müslüm Doğan Does the Commission participate in the same motions? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0224par0066	We can't agree.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0215par0067	I'll meet your demands on two proposals of the same nature. The first speaker is Müslüm Doğan, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0225par0071	Mr. President, I have made a promise regarding Article 4 of Law Bill 170. If we look at the historical process of capitalist production, we see that capital is constantly searching for new ways to increase its control over labour and develop new methods as a result of these quests. In particular, in the late 1970s and early 1980s, new liberal policies, which have been structured in accordance with the proposals of the IMF and the World Bank, have begun to weaken the state's protective arrangements for business market policies. The flexible and unsecured way of working is presented as a solution to economic problems and unemployment, thus creating a cheap, manageable and flexible labour market. In Turkey, these practices began in the early 1980s with reducing public employment and promoting privatisation policies. The first legal arrangement, based on flexible employment, was adopted in 2003 by Job Law 4857. The equivalence application, which eliminates overtime rights, has been adopted, has been provided with flexible working styles such as partial work, work on call, work at home; the coverage of the job guarantee has been reduced by changing 30 people and more workers to workplaces, while the scope of the work guarantee covers 10 people and employees are employed. Again, regulations for subcontractor implementation have been introduced and a pre-empt of subcontractorisation, particularly in public. Dear lawmakers, the most important provision for our subject is the practice of "interim work relations" that paves the way for private employment offices. The foundations of this practice are laid by Law 4857. Article 7 of the Law allowed the employer to temporarily turn the worker over to another employer on the condition that he should be employed within the holding company or in another business or similar to the work he does in the same company. Again, special employment offices established by real and legal persons have also been allowed to perform intermediary activities to find employment and employment by Article 4904, which was adopted on June 25, 2003. The main aim of both arrangements is to implement the organisation of private employment offices in the National Employment Strategy, drafted by the AKP government, and make the interim work relationship permanent. In this way, labor will be transformed into a commodity that is easily sold; it will be difficult for the worker to determine insurance, unemployment insurance, job security, permits and wages; and it will also be taken away from them. In general, the private employment office is the institution that aims to hire workers for a day or a temporary period of time to work at different employers and businesses. I mean, it's a new study organization that allows the labor of workers to be bought and sold easily. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, how will this system work? Private employment offices will work as an employer. The worker will report to the office what kind of worker or company he needs, and the office will serve workers to companies demanding workers. The hired laborer will have more than one boss, but he will never have a permanent job or a business. When the hired worker's time or work is done, he will be cut off from the factory or the workplace. In this case, the worker will go to the new job site where the private employment office, which he is committed to, will hire him. For a worker, it will be a regular, orderly workplace; it will be able to work in one workplace for three months, another for five months, another nine months; it will be forced to work in different neighborhoods, different workplaces. Dear lawmakers, if private employment offices have the right to hire workers, the private employment office, which has a fixed-term employment contract with the worker, will only be able to contract employment with the original employer. In this case, employers will have no responsibility to the temporary worker they hire. It will also prevent the employee's workspace from being uncertain and the measures for the health and safety of the workers. Since the worker will work at different workplaces every day or every month, he will be threatened by different occupational accidents and occupational diseases. The workplace where the hired worker was hired for his occupational accident and occupational illness will have no responsibility and the health and safety of the worker will be compromised. Dear MPs, we're going to say no to this law, but we find it wrong that a founding organisation of the republic has a very serious opposition to this law by CHP, who has expressed itself as a founding element, who has spoken and spoken everywhere. Therefore, we will vote against this law. My respects.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0226par0081	Thank you, Mr. Doğan.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0227par0082	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0226par0083	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0227par0084	Mr. orator, our high reflexes for this bill have been widely known in Parliament and the public, but has made it clear that we have been under-opposed to the negotiations of this bill.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0226par0085	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0228par0086	Don't pick on us! We have enough opposition.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0227par0087	Is the National Movement Party left to be teased?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0226par0088	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0227par0091	Mr. President, the National Movement Party's proposal is not for bullying, but for the HDP...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0229par0092	There's plenty to go around.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0227par0093	There's no such thing. This bill is an important one. I'm speaking to all opposition parties and lawmakers from the ruling party, and this was supposed to come out: there are workers on one side, there are employers on the other. We have both, we have both, we have the worker, we have the employer. We would have wished that a bill, which the employer would say yes, and the worker would say yes, would have been here in an hour. It seems that we are dealing with a bill where the employer's demands have been met with greater intensity, where the demands of the working world have been less evaluated, not taken seriously. As for teasing the National Movement Party, we have to say something here. I did, but today, after doing this test on what happened for the past two days, the whole of Turkey is curious about the nationalist Movement Party's assessment of this issue. September 27th and September 12th were the same thing for us, and February 28th was the same thing as March 12th. Enlightenment, Turkey became a brother of February 28th and March 12th; May 4th, it's a pity, it's a sin, it's a pity! Democracy isn't that cheap, the national will isn't that cheap. It is no one's right or right to take down the 23 million votes that this nation voted for the party headed by Davutoglu with such a blow. I wonder what MHP has to say about this.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0230par0096	Deal with yourself!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0231par0098	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0232par0099	Mr. Botanci, one second, first... Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0231par0101	To make it clear that he had nothing to do with the law we talked about, and that he had nothing to do with it.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0233par0102	We told them what the law should be like.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0231par0103	...obviously, Mr. Altay, in addition to the events that took place on February 28th, on May 4th, he made an open challenge to the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0234par0104	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0231par0107	Mr. President, dear friends, I've just tried to tell you, this has nothing to do with the bill we discussed. But, Mr. Engin Altay...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0235par0108	About what? There's been a coup on Parliament, sir, a coup on Parliament!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0231par0109	You sound beautiful, Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0236par0110	But you've been hit, too, really, Mr. Naci, you've been hit.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0231par0111	Mr. Engin, it's not fair to put February 28th and May 4th together.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0237par0112	I put in the 12th of March.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0231par0113	Second: AK PARTY is a process within itself. After all, he's going to an extraordinary convention.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0238par0114	The President isn't in the AK PARTY!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0237par0115	How can the President be in the EC PARTY?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0231par0116	I understand that the congressional process of a political party with 50% votes is of such interest to you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0237par0117	Be happy.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0231par0118	Because it's about the fate of the country, and you're interested in it, it's true.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0239par0119	Yes, we're already saying that the President interfered with the country's fate.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0231par0120	But you know very well that it's a party's own internal business, and at the same time, he does his convention, and everything happens in a law enforcement agency. In a political sense, there's no judgment on the reality of what you're saying by putting such an assessment, such a context, that you're trying to bring a taunt out of here, by some kind of political intent, by saying "February 28th" and so on.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0240par0121	People are seeing the truth, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0231par0122	We're taking 50 percent, Mr. Engin, because people have seen it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0240par0124	It's all right, it's all right.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0241par0125	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0240par0126	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0241par0127	Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0240par0128	Mr. Bostanci, I don't need your knowledge, but I'm the group president of the main opposition party, and Mr. Bostanci is the group president of the ruling party. The words that come out of our mouths have to come out with a little consideration. Mr. Bostanci said about the speech I had just made on the stand: "He gave a speech that had nothing to do with the bill we met." This is an obvious insult to the position I represent. I'm not too clumsy to know what to talk about on that stand. I demand word.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0241par0130	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0240par0133	Mr. Bostanci, I told you yesterday: does Civil Code 178 work? You said it wouldn't work. That's right, it didn't work. But alhak, you all, all of us, dear friends, have a conscience. No one here... nor does Mr. Davutoglu need protection. Mr. Davutoglu heard today's statement, and so did I, and so did everyone, and so did Turkey. What I'm saying is that in the last two elections, the united ballot had written under the Justice and Development Party emblem and under its logo, "Ahmet Davutoglu."
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0242par0134	There's no bread here, Mr. Altay, anywhere else!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0240par0135	Just as Mr. Erdogan wrote on his united ballot in 2002, even though he was not a candidate. After all, this nation voted 49.5 per cent to a party where Mr. Davutoglu was President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0243par0136	It's 53 percent now.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0240par0137	The work that was done yesterday, the work that was done before it, is about the MKYK, and look, it is not for me to speak of it, nor it is for me to speak of it. In the AKP's MKYK, the suspension of the Prime Minister's authority to dismiss organisations is not our job to discuss, it is not our place to speak. But if you say it's our internal business, you'll be trampling this Constitution under your feet. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] As for HDP, we will be within the borders of democracy, and we will continue to fight democracy. We respect the 6 million votes you've received, but there are some concrete facts about your inconsistencies in terms of business and operations, in terms of practice, in some cases in the region.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0244par0142	You don't say that in a fight.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0240par0143	I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0245par0145	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0246par0146	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0247par0147	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0248par0148	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0249par0149	Mr. Akçay... One moment, Mr. Lawmakers, please...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0250par0151	Mr. President, Mr. Altay has clearly offended our party in his speech earlier.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0251par0152	Yes, I said, what does the MHP think of the May 4 coup?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0249par0153	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0250par0155	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I mean, I'm really glad that the Republican People's Party is wondering what the National Movement Party is thinking about today's event. But I just want to say, don't tease us, you've seen the people who tease us today, so it's not good. Therefore, I advise the Republican People's Party not to pick on the National Movement Party. And I'm curious as to what a party that's doing the calculations of the new congress has been trying to pick on before the end of a convention. I'm at 14 o'clock. In fact, in the speech of the group's vice presidents at 00, Mr. Prime Minister's press statement was still under way, while he was not even finished, I tried to express my opinion in general. You can look at it from the transcripts. But as a party that believes in democracy, in the principles of law and law, in unwavering principles of national will...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0252par0158	Then May 4 is a coup.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0250par0159	I want to make it clear that today is a coup d'état or a coup d'état. (Applause from the MHP and CHP rows) You have to be clear about this because the Prime Minister stated in between the lines of his long statement that he had left his post because of the necessity of his own desire. The national will has been ignored, and for the first time in Turkey as a character of its own, there has been a government coup. 12 Marta is a mercy-reading blow to February 28th. It's obvious. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Well, I guess that explains it for you, Mr. Altay. Thank you, and I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0253par0164	Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0254par0165	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0253par0166	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0254par0167	Mr. President, the CHP's deputy group president has stated that we are fighting for democracy, but we are following an incoherent policy.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0253par0168	Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0254par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, in fact, all groups know this very well, we've been saying this from the beginning, and we've been warning you from the beginning as HDP; we've warned Mr. Davutoglu here repeatedly that the palace has done a coup against the AKP, the power, the coup against Parliament, the coup against the government.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0255par0173	Oh, my God, are you saying that?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0254par0174	If you remember, Mr. Bostanci, the answer you gave us earlier when we said there was a crisis between Mr. Davutoglu and Erdogan was: "There is no feast on two olives." Did you now understand how the two olives today ended with a crisis of the Turkish community? I'd like to ask you, Mr. Bostanci, how do you feast on two olives?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0256par0175	Mr. President, what does this have to do with what he wants to say?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0254par0176	You've led the people of Turkey into crisis. The economy is turned upside down, you said. Right now, Mr. Davutoglu says that he was not my choice. He means that in his speech today. Erdogan says it's his decision to leave. So you have to make two inconsistencies clear here.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0257par0177	It's up to you to defend the Prime Minister!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0254par0178	And at the same time, what does Mr. Davutoglu say? He wants a hand. In fact, halalism is a place where you should ask for halallik in Cizre, Cizre, Şırnak.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0257par0180	Yeah, how'd you tie this to it? Way to go! You're suffering from a mental eclipse!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0258par0181	Let him ask the church for righteousness, from the church.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0254par0182	You will carry out so many concepts of war, you will feed ISIS gangs all over Turkey, and you will still not answer for the bombs that fell on the church today; what will you say? The main opposition - unfortunately, he could not answer them, nor could he answer them. I'm really critical of CHP too. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0259par0186	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0260par0187	Mr. President, just for the record.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0261par0188	As a footnote, the footnote...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0260par0189	Mr. Davutoglu is a man who has always defended his law and the law of the people; one. His life has been fought against coups, and so has he, and so has his political tradition.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0262par0191	So, why don't you stand behind him?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0260par0192	It's a waste of time to consider today's event as fucking disaster, and I refuse.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0263par0193	That is because it is plain and clear.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0260par0194	For the record, I declare.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0264par0195	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0265par0196	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0264par0197	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0265par0198	Mr. President, Mr. President of the People's Democratic Party, when the General Assembly opened today, an hour later, although I insisted again that I ask the government for information about the Church, this, the bomb, the missile, the rocket attack against Syria, has accused us of being indifferent to this place; it is very clear in the minutes. I demand word.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0264par0199	Under Article 69, I give you my word for two minutes, Mr. Altay. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0265par0203	Thank you, Mr. President. In this understanding, perhaps these talks have helped to cool down so that the ruling party's executives, along with the employers, could bring this bill to a point where the workers and the working class, as well as to a reasonable, acceptable point of view, would be drawn to the acceptable limits, such a benefit. I'm hoping the ruling party will make a gesture of goodwill. Mr. Congressman, Mr. Group Vice President, the Republican People's Party is the most sensitive party in Turkey about every problem in Turkey. [[Applause from CHP rows]] As a matter of fact, if the Church is a province of Turkey, there is no government to ask whether it belongs to Turkey or Syria.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0266par0208	The government has fallen, the government has fallen, the government has been brought down!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0267par0209	There are MPs here, MPs! There are MPs in the church, please!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0268par0210	The government is down, it's down!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0269par0211	If the Church is one of our 81 provinces, it will suffice to say that for about a month, we've had rockets and missiles thrown into this province every day; they don't fall, they're aimed at. It's clear what governments in this country have been doing to make up old cliffs in the past.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0270par0213	You can't say "struggled rock," please fix it!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0269par0214	It is clear how Turkey stands for the rocks in Kardak. I don't know if you've given up on the people of the church, the land of the Church, the land of the land of the land. But there's a shame about this House, this Parliament is a disgrace; there's a regular rocket and missile attack in our city every day, some sources say 17 people, some sources say 26 people died, and you're sitting here; you, us, all. At least we're screaming, what are you doing? Shame on you! It makes me sad.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0271par0216	If there was a war, we'd be on the side of Iran." What's the matter?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0269par0217	Shame on you. I'm not talking to you. I'm talking to the general situation, Mr. Bostanci. It saddens me, and if you have a conscience, it upsets you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0272par0219	Thank you, Mr. Altay. About the second motion of the same nature, Senal Sarıhan, Ankara MP. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0273par0226	Dear President, my dear friends, after these busy talks, I'd like to share with you the demands of an unreflected party. If I had a loud voice, I'd like to read it out loud so everyone can hear it. Because today, I have devoted my speech to the demands of public employees. We haven't recently accepted them into the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and we've been welcoming them on the streets for several days. Just as their voices were prevented from reaching our commissions, they're being blocked from coming here and watching. You all know that all international contracts and our Constitution define the right to work as essential and an integral part of human honor to the fulfillment of other human rights. Now, what does this working class say about the bill we're talking about right now? One: Human trafficking is one of the greatest crimes of human history. A draft law discussed in the Turkish Grand Assembly would like to make this crime of humanity legal. What will happen, what will happen if this bill happens? One: job security will be eliminated. Two: the severance package will be effectively terminated, the report compensation will be eliminated. Almost 25 per cent of hired workers can be employed at workplaces that employ between 1 and 9 workers, up to 5 workers who employ more than 10 percent, so that almost half of the registered employment will be reserved for slave offices. The illegal, unsecured, flexible way of working will become a rule. The union organizations will lose a lot of blood. Employers' layoff costs will be reduced; workers will be used and thrown out as requested. The working class will be condemned to slave relations under the name of the workman's work; all rights related to income, pension, annual leave and health will be completely eliminated. Rental workers will receive lower wages than other workers who do the same. In our country, which is on top of the world in terms of long working hours, hired workers will fall into a busy workout wheel. In our country, it is based on business law, contract of employment, workplace and business arrangement, which will nullify these legal regulations. That way his work life will become completely illegal. When employers receive hiring rights from private employment offices, there will be constant pressure on staff workers. Rental workers will not benefit from the health and safety practices of workers. There are two areas in which interim employment is excluded - mining and public business. This is not enough, it should not be applied to this system in all dangerous workplaces. ISKUR will be dysfunctional, completely over their responsibilities in the public labour market. Sub-employees in the public will be able to hire workers from private employment offices, and public subcontractor slavery will be increased. As a result, private employment offices are slave markets. It's human trafficking to create a temporary business relationship with these offices. Human trafficking is one of the greatest crimes of humanity in history. Therefore, this bill must be withdrawn. This is the text written by our friends. I tried to present the text to you. Last night, Mr. Noble, they were saying: "We are being treated by a person who can't take his sick child to the hospital. " I say, Dear Noble: We are actually preparing to enforce a law that will kick the workman's ass. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] For us, our citizens have the right to live above all else. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0274par0239	Thank you, Mr. Sarihan. I will submit two motions of the same nature to your votes.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0275par0243	Mr. President, we're requesting a roll call.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0274par0244	However, there is a request for a roll call. I'll do the roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Akkaya, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Kaplan Hurriyet, Mr. Alli, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Arik, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Budak, Mr. Blackdeniz, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Torun, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Gökdağ. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the following joke to Article 4957 of Law 4857, which has been replaced with Article 4 of the Law on the Amendment to the Turkish Business Institution Act. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends "As for the employer or employer acting against the second joke (f) of Article 7, the fine imposed on the first joke (b) will be increased by four times as much. Does the commission agree with the motion? We commend you, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0276par0262	We agree.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0277par0263	Motive...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0274par0264	I'm reading the reason: As one of the conditions where a temporary employment relationship is established through a private employment office, it is intended to prevent the abuse of the "permanence of the 7th Article (2) (f) clause, in which "the average production capacity of goods and services is increased to the extent that it requires the establishment of temporary and unpredictable employment," which is based on administrative sanctions. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0278par0268	Mr. President, that's a new substance violation. The commission has to come.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0279par0269	The vote has been passed.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0280par0270	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0281par0273	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0282par0274	I submit the proposal to your votes." I said, he must have requested a roll call, Mr. Toğrul. So I'm going to do the roll call. Mr. Toğrul, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Irgat, Mr. Başaran, Mr. Yiğitalp, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Özküçe Ertan, Mr. Çelik Özkan, Mr. Birlik, Mr. Gülser Yıldırım, Mr. Şaşekli, Mr. Dora, Mr. Zeydan, Mr. Ocalan, Mr. Yilkal, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Taşçier. Initiating roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 1st joke (a) of Article 99 of Law 4857 (a), (c) and (d) in which the law shall be changed by the 170 rows under the Law on Business Foundation of Turkey (b) shall be replaced by Article 4 (e.g. the first article of the Law) (a), (a) and (d) terms of the 100 (i.e., i.g., i.g. Baki Simsek (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0283par0291	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0282par0292	It's Baki Simsek, Mersin MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0284par0295	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the motion issued in Article 4 of the Law on Business Law 170 and Amendments to the Turkish Business Institution Act. I salute the nation of St. Turk and the Grand Assembly. Since June 7th, 495 of our heroes have been martyred, left with tears in their eyes, orphaned children, lost lives. Unfortunately, Turkey is asleep. "Woe, we fell asleep in the faith of five or ten heretics, which we woke up in hell. I ask God's mercy to our martyrs, to their grieving families and to all Turkish people who share this pain and don't spare their prayers. My condolences to the Turkish Nation. One of our country's most important problems is terrorism, and the other one, unfortunately, unemployment. While you are dealing with EU laws, the new Constitution and the presidential system, our citizens have a different agenda. Everywhere we go to us, our citizens, untie the terror. Punish the terrorists. We don't want MPs who sing guerrilla anthems in the parliamentary corridors, who chant PKK slogans. They say they don't want them. They say, "Give our child a job, appoint an unassigned teacher, take the senior sergeants to the state staff, organize his social rights." Precious lawmakers are not allowed to hire workers in private employment offices under the name of safe flexibility, and a new labour market arrangement under the name of working at home. In this way, businesses are aimed at economic growth and strengthening international competition. Again, it is thought that employment will be increased, as in Europe, and unemployment and non-registered work will be reduced. However, the countries of the European Union have an uncompromising advantage, from unemployment figures to non-registered employment, fake employment, and the ban on false insurance. Hence, our primary concern is not flexibility. In our country, where unemployment is advanced and is almost structurally qualified, workers have no choice but to see the ISKUR as salvation. However, working as a side branch of the AKP, the lists from AKP agencies and hiring are the biggest obstacle to our citizens. Now to our Minister, how many people have you taken to İSKUR between June 7th and November 1st? Is there any difference between the number you received from the previous year and the number of workers you received from June 7th to November 1st? How many people did you hire at ISKUR, especially during the election, with a list given by the AKP in Mersin? Why didn't you select these personnel by choice or by test? Why don't you bring an institutional structure to İSKUR? We want to learn these numbers. We always ask, but you never answer. Dear lawmakers, another important issue is the social security rights of workers. Temporary workers, according to this, will not be able to benefit from health insurance because in order to benefit from disease insurance, the requirement is to be paid at least a hundred and twenty days in the year before the history of the disease. In this case, there will be a lack of benefit for workers who work less than four months a year. Come, all together, instead of the European Union, let's make the laws the Turkish nation wants, change the State Officers' Law, rethink the civil rights of workers, make a special law for soldiers and policemen serving in the southeast. An expert sergeant of mine, who has been killed in a car accident on the way to Ergani, Diyarbakır, but is now a new sergeant of specialists, who has crashed in a private service vehicle, can't take advantage of social rights, even though he's a martyr, can't retire. What will you tell this soldier's family and his wife who served there with their lives? I believe the rights of our police and soldiers must be restored. We also want temporary workers working in the forest and other institutions to be recruited under the subcontractor law. These workers who have worked in the same place for years... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we find it extremely wrong for them to take the exam when they're taking the position. We want this error in the subcontractor's law to be corrected. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0285par0308	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit your motion that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the amendment to the 4th Amendment, I submit to your votes the 4th article: those who accept it... those who do not accept it... the 4th article has been accepted. There are three motions on the 5th article, two of which are the same property, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to add and propose the introduction of the declaration "on condition of the written consent of a worker" in the interim Article 7" which is envisioned to be added to Article 5 (4857) and Article 5/7. Desire Open Virtue Kamil Aydın Mind Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Ismail Faruk Aksu Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Mustafa Kalaycı Ruhi Ersoy Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 5 of Article 5 of the Law shall be removed from the text of the Law under which there will be amendments to the Law of Turkey's Business Institution. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Ünal Demirtaş Musa Çam Cetin Arık Tur Yıldız Birçer Mehmet All Signed by the same motion: Çağlar Demirel Mahmoud Toğrul Sibel Yiğitalp Does the commission agree with the motions? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0286par0337	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0285par0338	I'll make a promise to the lawmakers who have requested two motions of the same nature. The first speaker is Nursel Aydoğan, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Aydoğan.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0287par0342	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. Of course, we're discussing the bill for hire. Everywhere you look at this bill, anywhere you look, it's falling apart. Of course, I think the most problematic part of the bill is the name of the bill, the rent worker. I mean, when you think about the concept of "virtality," you think about the names that can be next to the word "priority" in Turkey. What comes to mind is a rental shop, a rental house. You're going to look at the windows of real estate agents; there's a rental house, there's a rental shop, here's a rental house for students, there's no home for singles. Where else do you see the concept of Kiralik? There's a rental car, a rented wedding dress. You know, in Turkey, not everyone's economy, as you say, is very good, and people even rent wedding gowns when they're getting married. In the windows of the bridal shops, there is a rent-a-lot wedding dress. They go and people rent it because they can't get a zero. They use it that way. Here, they're renting chairs. For example, you go to villages, you go to towns; in the windows of village coffee, you rent chairs at weddings and weddings. So, as you can see, the concept of rentals is identified with property and property, which is how it's used. But what are we doing with this bill? We bring the word "human" to the word "for rent," which means that we metabolize people, we put people in goods, we put them in goods, we put them in goods, we put them in goods. Disgraceful name. First of all, that name needs to be changed. Now, some friends are going to say: we're subtracting these within the framework of the European Union integration law. That is the name of the European Union. In the European Union, two wrongs do not make a right. In the European Union, then we can change that. First, the name of this law must be changed. If there are certain things that we need to imitate from the European Union, for example, we can imitate democracy, we can imitate concepts such as human rights, equality, freedom, justice, and we can fill them. Dear friends, this bill, I think, there's not much a worker can change in his life. Who's life is it gonna change? They will make a change in the lives of those who form these private employment offices; they will gather workers, rent them, and receive commissions from them. So whoever runs this business, this office, this business, is going to win. In fact, you all know in Turkey -- there are uncles in cities like Mersin, Adana, Bursa. Every uncle has 100 workers around him, they depend on him. He sells his worker to a farmer, he buys from a worker, he buys from a farmer, he fills his pockets. Who's caught in the middle? It's the worker who gets caught in the middle. Now, we're modernizing this a little bit. What are we doing? We're putting a tie on the uncle, we're bringing him in, we're opening an office, we're putting the head of the office, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here. We don't think it should be removed as it is. Of course, workers will work for six to eight months. The bill is called. I've worked in the private sector for many years, I've done business engineering in factories. That's where I work, we hire workers, we hire them for 366 days, we get them off day 367, we take them back after that one day off, so the employer doesn't pay the severance check. At that time, the workers had many challenges. That's why we stopped being the employer's man, joined the union, fought with the workers. But without knowing that we had joined the yellow union, the union had sold us out, and our struggle had failed. I mean, there's always a hostility to labor here, there's a hostility to workers. I'd like to rephrase my thinking that she shouldn't be dating like this. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0288par0350	Thank you, Mr. Aydoğan.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0289par0351	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0288par0352	There's another motion in the same context, and then I'll grant you the number of decisions that are sufficient. Mehmet All wants to talk about the other motion, Balıkesir MP. Here you go, Mr. All.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0290par0356	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, on May 6th, 440 years ago, Turkish revolutionary youth leaders Deniz Gezmiş, Yusuf Aslan, Hüseyin İnan were executed. They fought for a fully independent and democratic Turkey. They sacrificed their lives to save the workers, the villagers. Once again, with these verses written by Can Yücel, I look forward to them: And here's our Deniz/ longest race in Turkey, of course the revolution in Turkey, he ran his most beautiful hundred meters out of the barrel of his/best luper, he was the fastest of us all. He was the fastest of us all. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, as you know, Turkey faces slavery by allowing private employment offices to hire workers under the name of safe flexibility. This bill does not suit human honor. All labour organisations are against this bill, and it is a great deception to be presented as guaranteed flexibility, such as its examples in Europe. The bill has all kinds of flexibility for workers, but there's no guarantees, even any guarantees of workers, severance, health rights, rights to strike, unionization, are being taken away from them. Dear friends, not a single proposal of labor unions has been taken into account in the bill, only the capital's demands have been met. Dear lawmakers, according to the bill, almost all areas can employ hired workers. There will be no way to hire workers in public or mines. Millions of workers will work under this law in slavery. The AKP's government claims to have brought legal restrictions on contracting labor, but this is a total hoax, where it will go through subcontractors to employ hired workers because no legal measures have been taken to prevent it. According to the bill, no hired workers will be able to work in the businesses that were mined underground. The outcome is clear, and the AKP government finds it difficult to employ hired workers in underground mines for work health and safety. So we're asking: is underground mining the only sector that's dangerous? Dear friends, rental labor will lead to unsecured employment, low wages, heavy working conditions. It'll be even harder for hired workers to retire. The workers will have to pay a premium for health care. Rental labor will hit the health of workers as a whole, which will lead to more job accidents, more labor killings, more occupational illness. This bill must be withdrawn immediately from the Parliament's agenda because this bill will be played with the honor of workers and will be forced to work under inhuman conditions. The job guarantee will be wiped out completely. The severance package will be virtually destroyed. Rental workers will work for lower wages than other workers who do the same job. Rental workers will not be able to benefit from the unemployment fund. With this bill, human trafficking will be officially legalized. This is an embarrassing situation. Dear friends, the worker is human in the first place. You can't rent out human dignity. It's a universal crime to ignore them. The High Council should never be a party to this crime. This bill, which clearly violates constitutional and international contracts, must be extradited immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0291par0366	Thank you, Mr. All. I'm going to submit the same motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motions... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to add and propose the introduction of the declaration "on condition of the written consent of a worker" in the interim Article 7" which is envisioned to be added to Article 4857 under Article 5 of the Law on the Amendment to Turkey's Business Institution Act. Altruism (Istanbul) and its companions Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0292par0376	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0291par0377	Arzu Erdem, İstanbul MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0293par0380	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Movement Party Group on our motion in Article 5 of the Law Against the Law on Business Law on Turkey. I salute the General Assembly. The purpose of this bill, presented by the ruling party as a package of safe flexibility practices, is to bring in new flexible practices, including increased employment and economic growth, reduction of unemployment and off-the-book employment, and the ability to establish temporary employment relations in private employment offices in order to strengthen international competition. However, when further review of the proposed arrangements with this bill, it appears that this bill does not serve these purposes. On the contrary, it is likely to lead to an unsecured number of workers. According to Turkish Business Agency data, the number of unemployed persons in our country aged 15 and higher in January 2016 increased by 3,290,000 in the same period last year, increasing by 3,290,000. In the growing day of unemployment, private employment offices provide temporary workers to the employer in a professional sense, making it clear that these offices will sell their employees' work, such as commercial institutions, established for profit. The bill includes the use of social services under the principle of equal treatment during the work of temporary workers. However, it seems likely that private employment agencies will pay the worker less than the usual payment in order to profit. The fact that workers are a matter of gain, the exploitation of workers, the working conditions that do not suit the dignity of mankind, and the removal of job security will be an environment. Dear lawmakers, our country is unfortunately beyond compare with the countries of the European Union. Given unemployment figures, labour health, job safety, unregistered employment, we appear to be much lower than the European Union countries. Therefore, the legislation of flexible labor is not a priority for our country. In addition, the bill we are negotiating is not clear on the beginning of the rights and obligations between the private employment office and the temporary worker in terms of interim employment. Whether the temporary worker is applying for a private employment office or when he starts working with the employer, the loan and the debt will begin, which is unclear. When it's empty, it's unclear whether it's going to be paid. It is clear that the temporary labour market will lead to competition during this period of time when we have too many unemployed young people. The unemployed will have no choice, so they'll have to work in any business that has a temporary business relationship. This prepares an environment for abuse and exploitation of labor by private employment agencies. The union organisation of temporary workers is not possible, so they remain vulnerable and unsecured. The temporary worker will have many managers, but there will be no permanent work and no workplace. That would lead to an irregular business life and interim relationships. This way, there will be gaps between the hires of workers and the workers will be eligible for retirement for longer periods. One of the arrangements is the addition of working from a distance to the Employment Law. This arrangement basically organises working at home. Working at home is free of social security and is one of the most important ways in which companies want to reduce their cost. In this bill, more work has been done for the market than for the interests of our nation. The employer who employs employees through private employment offices has no legal responsibility to the worker. In Article 49 of the Constitution, work is the rights and homework of all. The state takes the necessary measures to improve the life level of employees, to protect employees and unemployed people, to support work, to create an economic environment suitable for preventing unemployment, and to ensure working peace. As the National Movement Party, we have done all kinds of work to protect the interests of our nation, and we will continue to do so. The peace and prosperity of our beloved Turkish nation comes first for us, my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0294par0394	Thank you, Your Grace.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0295par0395	The decision is sufficient, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0294par0396	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... there is a sufficient number of decisions, the motion is not accepted. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article is accepted. Congressmans, the votes of the substances in section one have been completed. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second part covers the 6th to 12th article. I'll make a promise to the spokesman for the political party group who want to speak on the second chapter and to the members of parliament who want to speak on behalf of the person. The first speaker for the groups is Ahmet Selim Yurdakul, Antalya MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0296par0406	Mr. President, my esteemed MPs, my esteemed citizens, today we are discussing a bill by former AKP founders, Mr. Abdullah Gul, which Mr. Abdullah Gül vetoed and returned to parliament. You know, he only vetoed four laws during the presidency, and that is one of them. My fellow citizens, members of parliament, as much as the AKP doesn't like to hear it, it is history that this bill, which will be referred to as the law of a private worker, has been passed by the AKP to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I address all AKP MPs: Once you accept this bill, we will tell our workers who have had to work with all our strength, with minimum wage, day and night what you've done to them. We will tell my brother, Rıfat, the father of two children, who had not set his eyes on the production tape for a minute, to Ayþe, who had his daughter read at the university, with his elbows rotted at that sewing machine. We will tell each of them how this law forced my brothers and sisters to drink their labor. From now on, you only visit the bosses on those industrial sites where thousands of minimum wage workers work because you won't be able to face those brothers with the law of hire. Be assured that from the eyes of all my brothers who were forced to attend meetings, you will understand their feelings for you. With this bill, the AKP government will implement an arrangement that also undermines and undermines the private sector. I can already see the followers of the factory that look after its work without getting involved in politics, and they're going to fall on it like a nightmare. On the other hand, even to earn minimum wage, you don't need to be a psychic to know that you want to force our unemployed citizens to join your party agencies. We're aware that you're on the verge of public staffing, and we see that you're trying to do the same thing to the private sector. It is against the democratic traditions of our country that you make the Turkish nation one type and give no life to any opposition. It is very sad that a party, which comes up at every opportunity with the words of a democratic constitution, reduces the private sector after the public to party-friendly order. If you think you can make our country competitive in international trade because of this threat to private sectors and business relations in our country, where the law has been severely undermined, you're very wrong. Every unhappy worker you create will cause irreparable damage to our country's socioeconomic structure. My fellow citizens, the AKP government, which favours a fellow businessman, who crushes the citizens with every law and crushes the citizens, is pushing the country's economy and future generations to a great precipice. Another example of empty AKP activities is the announcement that subcontractors will be recruited. The AKP government, which divides people at each step, cannot move beyond the promise of private status for subcontractors, by creating a new class to break the peace. It's impossible to understand how you can give 1,500 lira to a subcontractor next to a staffer who is currently working for 2,500 liras and announce it to the citizens with enthusiasm and enthusiasm. However, when we talk to fellow contractors who are still happy, we realize that you've made the country's economy so miserable that even people who work for a fee under the price it deserves are happy to think that they're getting job security. Yes, dear citizens, the AKP, after which, with its special status and training, is also destroying central testing and justice. You know when the parallelists stole the KPSS questions, ate the rights of our children. They give them to each worker in public after that, they'll have different voices from AKP agencies. Even the deaf sultan knows that your three-year contracts will be used to threaten these people's freedoms. At the same time, the AKP has brought this bill to parliament in a game plan to exploit human labor and create dependent slaves in the private sector. The AKP, which makes people happy with minimum wage labor because of the 19.3% youth unemployment rate, will try to distribute even that minimum wage as a favor to the side. Don't be silent about the creation of allies in the wealth of slaves, O people of Turkey! They take away all the security, they take away the weekend off. Forget the annual leave of absence. Don't even think about taking a day off. They're removing the severance pay. You're being turned into slaves working in cages. Now that I have passed away, perhaps my child will see a good day. As long as you keep silent, the future of your child and the country is blackened, my dear working brother. He came like this, he goes like this. Don't say, speak and shout that he's human. I know you don't have any money in your pocket. That's what the government wants, to make you and even your children borrow money. We wonder when the AKP will stop defending the interests of some groups and groups when it should be working for the Turkish nation, unable to go beyond pretending to run the ship. I would like to address those who have built the bill of hired laborers, prepare for the workforce, the labor market, to find a target to blame after turning it into a wreck. Because we know very well that you're willing to blame it on someone for the damage you're going to do to our country, for the families that have been destroyed, for the unhappy workers who have fallen into debt. We have expressed our views on this bill in the commission's work under which this bill was discussed, and we have made it clear that this bill is at the expense of the Turkish nation. Turkey, which the AKP wants to create, is created from citizens who need a bread, who are enslaved. Otherwise, who cares, Mehmetchik, who cares about my sleepless brother, who cares how many hours a day the worker works, who cares, who can let a worker go; who cares, the workers who die in their insecure workplaces because of lack of supervision? It's a great Turkish nation that can only call it a stop. I'm also making it very clear from here where these unions are defending the rights of our workers. Where are those unions who defend the workers' rights, who are always there for the workers? Why didn't you speak up when you were being discussed on the committee? Why don't you stand up in front of the Turkish nation and speak up to block this bill, so are you with the slave labor bill? Please, I would like to address those presidents, those executives here: If this bill is in favor of the workers, if it's in favour of the Turkish nation, then come out openly. But if it is not in the interests of the Turkish nation, but in the interests of our workers, do not hold your peace. You're going to have to keep quiet, so you have to make it very clear from here. Now, the National Movement Party is openly opposed to this bill, so I'll put it this way. I offer my love and respect.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0297par0419	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Musa Çam, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Pine. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Pine, I believe you have another presentation.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0298par0424	Mr. President, as predicted, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0297par0425	How?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0298par0426	As we predicted, Mr. Moses...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0299par0427	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you with love and respect. I have made a pledge on the second chapter of Law Number 170. I salute you all. Today is May 5th, in an hour or two, May 6th. On May 6, 1972, people who fought for a warless, exploitive and classless world were executed in this country. Today another execution is taking place, the rights of the working class are being slaughtered at this hour along with a new bill. The speaker who spoke before me asked a very important and just question, "Where are the workers, workers, and workers, who work in Turkey, are being taken away, destroyed, sentenced to slavery?" But that was the goal and that was the goal. The coup of September 12th 1980 and the January 24th Decisions and the following neoliberal policies are to create an unorganised society in Turkey, create an unorganised union movement, and pass all the laws, all the substances that capital, capitalism wants, one by one from here, friends. Its purpose, its goal, its goal, its purpose, has been achieved. Unfortunately, today in Turkey, the union movement has been stabbed in the back with a dagger, and such a struggle... See, on September 12, 1980, the population of the country was 40 million, the number of union workers was 2.5 million, but today the population of the country is 78 million, the number of workers with total collective contracts, the number of workers who actually contract 750-800,000. So, the country's population has increased, its number of employees has increased, but the number of union workers has fallen. Why? Because the 1982 Constitution has put a lot of obstacles in the way of organization, and the workers are unfortunately unorganised. And unfortunately today, the ruling industrial room, the trade room, the trade room, the trade room, the trade union, the co-opperative union, the public workers' unions, all the unions that didn't pledge to them, all the unions that had emptied themselves, reset their members, pressed with the undersecretary, the minister, the general manager, and you're going to go to this union. You're going to go to this union. You've threatened to go to this union, and you've turned some unions into the rear garden of the AKP, and you've unfortunately turned the unions without a backyard into very weak and very weak. And I regret that as a former union manager. Now the bill that was brought in yesterday was partly what the Minister said, but at times he would go to television and say, we're bringing up the employment offices, the forms of work that he's doing. There will be no non-registered employment in Turkey, there will be under-the-stairs work, there will be no guarantees... lt's actually very easy to say, Mr. Secretary, how nice things he's saying. But you have to underline that none of this has anything to do with the facts. Friends, these employment offices are being implemented in the United States, in Europe, in many European Union member states, but they have become extremely secure there, so the worker who works under any circumstances is guaranteed there. After September 12th, I lived abroad for eight years, in Switzerland, and in France. There are offices in the English language called, "Temporary security" or "Temporary Bureau" or "Fransa" in French - "Interim" in Turkish" in the language. You go, you make a contract, that workplace, that private office, you send you to work there, you work there, but all of your social rights, severance pay, all of your calls and other social security, but they're all guaranteed, including friends and pension. Now, the 11th and 12th articles of the labour law that we've already been brought in... there's enough regulation for certain and indefinitely, there's enough flexibility, there's enough shifts or partial work. By bringing this up, by making your working life more flexible, there's no point and there's no reason to condemn people to slavery, my friends. Both Deputy Prime Minister Mehmet Simsek and Labour Minister say: "If we take care of these private employment offices, friends, we will solve a significant unemployment problem in Turkey." (HPP) Never, ever, with this model, you have no chance of solving the unemployment problem in Turkey with this arrangement, friends. You've got businessmen, you've got bosses; you're leaving, you're renovating your vehicle fleet, you're not buying cars anymore, you're taking them with the leveling system, you guys. Is that correct? The Leassing system. You guys are going to buy dozens of machines at your place of work, your factory, and you're not going to print the money and buy machines anymore. What are you doing? You pick it up with the Leassing system. Friends, working life is partly returning to the leasing system. So, you go with this system, the boss, the office, the employee, the employer, is making a contract with the private office, and it says: I'm going to work at the private office. It's impossible to charge more than $1,300 when I go to the private employment office, but there are 1,500, 1,600, 1,700, 1,800 workers in the same factory. Now, there's no way that that employee who went to the private office and signed the contract got paid more than $1,300, folks. Work on what? Friends who will work for $1,300. He'll go to work, in three days, in four days, he'll be thrown out and sent back. It's not guaranteed, it's a total system of slavery. No, it's not the system of slavery, you're using the wrong concept. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, many ministers have come through here, and you will pass through, history will write about you, and Süleyman will write about Nobleman, and on May 5th, we will see the working class stabbed from behind again here, my friends. (CHEERING) History will see this, not us, but history will write it down, my friends. See, with private employment offices, people are literally throwing millions of dollars in their pockets with your contractor, and if they're making money off the workers' backs, they're going to build people in private employment offices, they're going to buy me by phone, they're going to make money on my back, in that job, in that place, in that job. Why, why, friends, why would bosses make money off a worker's back, a worker's back, why? Because he's going to transfer funds to the side. Well, since we're bringing in so much flexibility, let's do it with the president, friends, let's change flexibility every six months, guys, bring it in, let's change it every six months, guys. Let's bring it in for the Council of Ministers, bring it in for the Council of Ministers.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0300par0439	He's here, he's here today!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0299par0440	I'm getting there, I'm getting there. Let's do it for the Council of Ministers, friends, let's keep it flexible, change every six months. Let's do it for the MPs, lawmakers every six months, let's trade, friends, let's have other friends come in and run for Congress. But yesterday and today, there was an actual change in employment offices. The AKP headquarters and the Turkish Grand National Assembly broke down yesterday between the AKP Group and the illegal palace.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0301par0443	The subcontractor agreement!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0299par0444	Mr. Prime Minister did it, Prime Minister did it, but after using it for 20 months, Mr. President, I'm not happy, I'm not happy with this Prime Minister, I'm dismissing him. He said, he sent his notice. Now, if you're thinking about what the PM's severance and reporting compensation is going to be, I know there are very good lawyers in the union who are suing for severance and reporting compensation, but if Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu is willing, he will take his case and sue him, he will surely, and he will surely win severance pay for the court and the tip. Let no one doubt it, nor let Mr. Davutoglu have any doubts. We know the lawyers who'll defend the law here, defend his seniority and tip charges, take him in, folks. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Once again, I know that these employment offices have hit the working class movement with a massive blow, causing a great deal of trouble.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0302par0448	The president can't get a refund?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0299par0449	But if he sues for extradition, he's got a discharge contract, he's done, but he can get severance pay, nothing more. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0303par0452	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Behcet Yıldırım, Adıyaman MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0304par0456	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on the second chapter of Bill 170. I salute the General Assembly. Where do we start? There's nothing consistent about this bill. Ahmet Kaya says: "There is no catch, there is no discrepancy, wherever you look, it is foolish." Unfortunately, that's the design. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Yes, when this bill was discussed in the Commission, there were two parties; there were opposition, and there were violent advocates. Those who strongly advocated this bill were power, plus capital; we all witnessed it. And I've just heard that Mr. Minister says that the Union supports this bill. No union has ever supported it. We've been on the Commission, we've discussed them, no union has ever supported this bill. Plus, they've just asked us to take a stand because I hope this union won't be blocked here. We've had enough opposition to this in the Commission, we've put up our opposition statements, and I'm saying it again here. The opposition to this bill had rightly stated that it was against the workers, that it was unacceptable, but the government and capital class were determined to defend and remove this bill, as if they had reinvented America. Again, all labour representatives, trade unions and thousands have been brought to the General Assembly due to the majority's lack of authority, despite opposition. I understand the employer's heated defence of this bill because he's really on their side. But I don't understand why a worker, 49.5% of the people, would agree to this bill by the workers' votes. I don't approve. I'm saying it's a terrible misfortune, a great weakness. The real purpose of the bill is to reduce the labour costs of capital through basic labour rights earned by the struggle of centuries, pay, severance, unionisation, the right to a collective contract, job safety, annual severance, and so on, and to burden the capital's risks with working people. The earnings of the workers face destruction by this bill. So, in essence, this bill is not intended for workers, but for capital. There are private employment offices in this second section. It's a disaster on its own. Allowing private employment offices to hire workers in terms of interim employment is an antiquated, slavery-related mandate. The workers will be given legal protection, and the workers will be sold in offices as slaves, and they will be rented. The rule system, which we have witnessed, will be legalized, and will have a form of insecurity that will not even search for subcontractor slavery. Rental labor and similar forms of work are a slave system where all rights, laws, and the Ministry of Labor are eliminated in working life. It is understood that women's part-time employment is foreseen under the name of harmonisation of family and working life, especially for female workers. This means that the flexible and unsecured work will be expanded, starting with women. Normally, the contract of employment is between the employee and the employer. If the employee's inefficiency, the reduction of the work volume, and the removal of workers for similar reasons, they have certain sanctions against the employer in order to maintain the rights earned by the worker. These sanctions bind the employer in many ways, preventing laborers from being dismissed. But this bill aims to relieve the boss of that burden. According to this, he will employ private employment offices, temporarily, according to the nature of the work, for four to eight months or indefinitely to the employer. Since the employer will not have to employ a worker enough to earn a year's work, he will avoid paying severance, annual sabbaticals and similar rights to the worker, so the labour costs will be reduced. In other words, the employer will invest the employee's normal salary in private employment offices, and private employment offices will profit from the difference by employing workers at a minimum wage. We're seeing examples of these. He hires workers in his factory, shows minimum wage, deposits his salary in minimum wage, but says, "Go, withdraw from the bank, give me half." I have seen hundreds of examples of this in my own land, in Adıyaman. It's gonna get more legal, so it's gonna be left at the mercy of private employment offices. I don't think there's much compassion in them either, because it's all about the contractors in power that the government will do with its own power. Yeah, solving unemployment with a temporary employment model is like trying to cure diabetes by feeding it sugar. Because 33 per cent of the unemployed in Turkey are unemployed because they work in a temporary job, a flexible job, and it's over. The increase in total employment, however, is logically impossible to create more jobs in a system that will give businesses the advantage of competition, as capital would mean a rise in total labour costs under human circumstances. Those employed through private employment offices will lack union rights, social dialogue. Private employment offices will always be made up of people close to power, monopolized. We see this in practice, which will be opened to contractors close to the government. For example, at the hospital where I worked, he wanted to enter the cleaning company, the catering company, as a subcontractor. He can either get in from the ruling party or from the locals or through the MP. Believe me, in my hometown, without the authorities knowing, no contractor is buying a cleaning worker, a worker, and it's going to get worse, and it's going to get worse. Because these private employment offices will not be limited to one thing, and in other cities, they will be opened. This will be entirely within the power of power, opening a new door to power and contractors. Mr. Secretary mentioned it in the Commission, about the workers. Yes, Adıyaman is a village of workers. We've talked to these workers, we've explained to them the flaws of this bill. I spoke to the workers myself, and we spoke to the uncles, and they called them in our place, and we told them of their afflictions, and they said that it would not be fair. Yeah, they're on their way to work in tractors, trucks, trucks. The job of the social government is to find them a safe job, to secure their transportation. Every year, dozens of workers die in traffic accidents, where they go, fascists are subjected to racist attacks. Most of these workers, whose social lives are scarce, have green cards. They'll be insured for three months through private employment offices -- which is not a solution -- even from the green card they have now. Anyway, we insured you, made you look insured for three months, but... nine months of the year, they'll be out of work, but once they're insured, they'll even have a green card ready. We've seen the practice of it. We've met with friends, we've talked to uncles who do it, and we've talked to fellow workers who do it, and no one's doing it. I asked the Minister the other day, and I didn't get an answer, and I ask again: There is talk of the construction of 55,000 dwellings in Adıyaman, on the government's agenda. The construction of these 55,000 dwellings for refugees means the arrival of 300,000 people to Adıyaman. Half the population of Adıyaman. Finding work in Adıyaman, which is already famous for its unemployment, will be almost a miracle, because it will be a cheap labor force. Everyone here is against it. The municipalities there, the NGOs, everyone... I hope it's a lie. I think it's the worst thing to do to Adıyaman. We have suggestions from trade unions, labor representatives, to reduce this unemployment. That's to reduce your weekly work level from 45 hours to 37 hours, limiting overtime. In particular, overtime should be banned at workplaces where there are layoffs, the government should do its legal duties first to abandon everything, eliminate off-the-book employment, end flexible working models and subcontract practices, all obstacles to union rights and freedoms must be removed, run by employment and employment workers. IF TODAY'S ISKUR could be reformed and reformed a little bit, it would be much better than this law. The job security has to be covered by all employees. I salute the General Assembly, saying that we will not be part of this bill, that we will not be a party to this sin.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0305par0472	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mehmet Ali Pulcu, İstanbul MP... no. Mahmut Tanal, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0306par0477	My dear President, my dear fellow congressmen, I salute you with respect and respect. Of course, it's the employment offices. When we looked back at the employment offices... they taught us Roman law in the 1st class of law school. In my hand, my book of Roman Law... the late Professor Dr. Ziya Umur Hodja would have come to our class. Why is Roman law important? Actually, the source of the law is Roman law. In Roman law, there was the concept of the subject -- I brought the book of Roman Law of Things -- they divided the law of goods into two parts: talking objects, non-verbals. The non-verbal property is divided into Roman law: real estate, real estate. And the stuff was called the res. Those slaves in Roman law were part of the talking goods; they were not considered human; they could be sold; they could be rented; they could be borrowed; they could be brought to circuses in arenas; they could be rented if you were going to have a wedding. At the same time, those slaves could be rented just as horses could be rented. There are also problems in the Roman era. If this slave you hired gets sick, harms anyone else, who's responsible, the owner here, or is he responsible? It's all been discussed in the Roman legal era, as matters, until today. The reason I'm telling you this, dear friends, is that in Roman law, slaves, yes, were in the possession of property, they didn't get any rights, they were goods, but modern legal systems took slavery, and now they look human, not like property, they can have rights. However, in the modern-day legal system, as a slave-like institution, we see it in employment offices today. I mean, today's employment offices, not exactly slavery, but modern legal systems, like slavery. Well, it's adopted, but here we are, it's the system of slavery. When we say it, Mr. Secretary, the ruling MPs are angry. Dear friends, now, what will happen when you, your wife, your friend, your relatives, your neighbors, your voting constituent friends, work in the employment offices the day after tomorrow? So, if he can work for eight hours or work for nine hours, it will be said to prevent unemployment: "Friend, go work for three hours. " In the other nine hours, one person will work for three hours. So a total of eight hours or nine hours will be divided over three people. If he's going to work here for 12 months, he'll only be able to work for three months or four months, he won't be able to earn severance pay, he won't be entitled to a tip. In fact, we have legal friends among us, and there is one other issue that is not discussed here -- Mr. Secretary, of course there may be urgent calls to the minister -- our Civil Law says to the lady who is married, that if your spouse doesn't want you to work in a year's time, then you will be relieved of your severance pay. So here we are, with the provisions of the Civil Law, placing this in place again. My request is from you, Mr. Secretary -- of course, when we tell you about these employment offices verbally -- you're not taking any of them forts -- clearly and clearly: this system of slavery in Roman law, the legal system of slavery -- in order to follow, you'll give us that right when you've read it, so that you can find out that I've told you about the Beta publications, Professor Dr. Ziya Umur, page 159, and the printing of this employment, the third edition, August 2010, the Istanbul edition; and hopefully you'll get this right when you've read it. Thank you all.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0307par0487	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0308par0488	It's a gift. It's a gift.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0309par0489	Why don't you give it to me?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0310par0490	Friend, why should I give it to you? You've got a lot of money, we're poor.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0311par0491	The second speaker on behalf of the department is Lütfiye İnsen Ceritoğlu Kurt, Çorum MP. Here you are, Mr. Ceritoglu Kurt.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0312par0494	Good evening. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the second chapter of the Law on Business Law and the Amendment to Turkey's Employment Institution Act. I salute you with respect and love. A temporary business relationship with the Business Law is being reorganised with the bill, with a sense of safe flexibility. For the first time in our legislation, working from a distance based on the balance of working life. Some significant changes are being made in Turkey's Employment Institution Law concerning private employment offices that are authorized to establish temporary employment. The aims of the bill: this bill will strengthen the management's hand in such matters as recording non-human rights and freedoms, fighting off-registered procedures, providing social security rights for household services without social security for many years, and prevent businesses from transferring their production to places we would refer to as "equivocal rights and freedoms." Dear lawmakers, as it is known, women's employment in our country is very low for the average European Union member states. In fact, 60.77% of women aged 15 to 64 years in the European Union are employed, while 30.5 per cent in our country. One of the main reasons why this is high in the European Union countries is part-time work, and the other is parental leave applications. For this purpose, the legislation adopted in January 2016 has been introduced to our legislation on parental consent and part-time work arrangements, thank God. This arrangement has also brought the obligation to fill the gap left at workplaces by employees who use these rights, but while filling that gap, it must be acted with the awareness that the job security of those workers must also be maintained. Therefore, it is evident that it is important to give private employment offices the authority to establish temporary employment. It will strengthen our hands in the fight against unemployment, allowing jobs and revenues to increase through private employment offices, allowing the economy to grow and the competitiveness to be positive. As you know, the similar arrangement was adopted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in 2009, but was vetoed by the President. I'd like to point out that the bill, which we're currently negotiating and adopted by the Commission, is in line with the relevant European Union directives and the ILO norms, and has met the objections to the veto in this regard. Members of parliament, it is organised to establish a temporary work relationship in situations in which it can't be fulfilled on grounds of labour, such as military service, annual leave, sickness, maternity leave, parental leave, and parental leave. In the case of an unpredictable increase in business volume, temporary employment has been allowed to be established, for reasons stemming from the employer, such as periodical job increases. Interim agricultural workers in the agricultural sector are saved from unsanitary, life-threatening working conditions. The temporary work relationship, which will take place through the private employment office, has been determined in what situations and how to establish it. With the bill, a new working model has been introduced to our business legislation. According to the flexible working system, the remote working system will allow workers to work outside the workplace through technological communication tools, allowing them to perform jobs according to the nature of the work in their homes. A written contract of employment of distant workers and provisions such as the definition of the work, the duration, and the time, the price and the payment of its fee have been required to be included in the contract. Special Employment Offices are subject to certain rules by canceling the authority to be granted temporary employment authority, to operate and to establish guarantees, audits and interim employment from offices that can be conducted. As a result, I respectfully salute our nation's grand delegation, which will be an important achievement in the fight against unemployment, which will provide the following contributions to the working life of our government's 2016 Action Plan.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0313par0504	Thank you, Mr. Ceritoglu Kurt. There is a motion on the chapter in accordance with Article 72 of the Civil Code. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand that the negotiations continue according to Article 72 of the TBM Council. Haydar Akar Mahmut Tanal Sibel Özdemir Peace Black Sea Omar Fethi Gürer I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0314par0516	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0313par0517	There's got to be a roll call. I'll do the roll call. Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir, Mr. Toğrul, Mr. Acar Başaran, Mr. Yithan, Mr. Irgat, Mr. Çelik Özkan, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Dora, Mr. Capaklı, Mr. Gülser Yıldırım, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Ocalan, Mr. Zeydan, Mr. Geveri. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, I'm going to do a question-and-answer procedure on the department for 15 minutes. However, due to the fact that we've just conducted a roll call, the records of our MPs who entered the system to ask questions have been deleted. I also have those records because they're manual. I'll read the names. If these guys get into the system, I'm gonna make the commitments fast. Mr. Tanal, Mr. Yigitalp, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Çam, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Çanaak, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Bektaşoğlu, Mr. Toğrul. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0315par0530	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, which unions supported this bill, can you name them one by one? Second question: How many employment offices are in Turkey now? The other day, when we asked you about this, you said there were 435 employment offices, but you said 25 of them were strangers, and you said the rest were local employment offices. So, how many temps do these employment offices seem to be working now and here in foreign companies? Where is the center of these foreign companies? Were companies founded in Turkey? Is it the main branch in Turkey? That's what we want to know. Another question is, again, how much will the total education costs for these employment offices be paid, but you didn't give clear information last week. Can you explain that? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0316par0535	Mr. Heroalp...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0317par0536	Mr. Secretary, if there is no guarantee that a worker who works for four or eight months will be able to work anywhere for the following months, how can you describe this system as safe flexibility, and do you have any secure packages from these hired workers? Do you have any work for these? I'm asking you practically. And I have a second question, I asked you yesterday. You had a promise to hire subcontractors. That's what you always said in the polls. Have you done any work on that? If so, what is it? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0318par0539	Mr. Tuncer...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0319par0540	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, when do you plan to bring the bill for the transfer of subcontractors to the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? Are subcontractors working on the highways also part of the staff? Another question: Is the technical and administrative investigation over the roof of the Silver Crossville Open Prison over the prisoners finished? If so, who are the responsible, and what sanctions will be carried out? Another question: when will the new Chiltek Mining Pit be operational again? Will the Redevance agreement with Soma Holdings be terminated? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0320par0545	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0321par0546	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there are people in retirement who are old enough to work before 1999. But when the game started, you changed the rules of the game while the game was being played, and before 1999, the workers, unfortunately, became old and unable to retire. They can't retire, and they can't get social security. They're in a lot of trouble and trouble. Do you think you'll be able to talk to them? Do you have a solution to all this? Second, you say you have many records in your 14 years of power. In particular, what number of workers have died in work killings and business accidents during your 14 years of power? The third question is: What number is working for collective benefit in ISKUR in 2015? What are the number of workers to be employed for the benefit of the community in 2016? That's what we'd like to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0322par0551	Mr. Demirtaş...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0323par0552	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, although there are 14,000 norms at the Turkish Taşkomumuru Foundation in Zonguldak, there are 8,500 workers left as of today. So there are 5,500 norm openings at the Turkish Taşkomuru Foundation. These workers in TTK also threaten occupational health and occupational security. Will TTK receive 5,000 workers? That's my first question. Secondly, it is alleged that Turkey's Taşkomuru Foundation will be privatised at the institution, one of the key issues spoken in public. Zonguldak public opinion is closely monitored. Will TTK be privatized? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0324par0556	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0325par0557	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Minister, you raised the tradesman's BUG-KUR bonus to 570 liras with a 33 per cent increase from 430 Turkish liras. The tradesman's in a tough spot, and he's having a hard time paying for it. When are you going to try to drop this? 2) The destruction and dam construction of the forests of Denizli Çameli district has a negative effect on climate, soil structure, agriculture. In some areas, it even causes landslide. As the ministry, what measures do you intend to take in this regard? 3) The DMV Drivers' Exam, Science and Art Centers Student Selection Exams, Open High School and Open School Exams still have not been paid. When will these fees be paid by your ministry? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0326par0562	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0327par0563	Thank you, Mr. President. After all these statements, I wish the Minister would consider the concerns of the workers. Mr. President, on our weekend visit to Kahramanmarash districts and counties, we've had heavy complaints from citizens. We will treat all power equally to the citizens. Unlike the statement, our citizens who live in neighborhoods where the ruling party does not get much votes believe that they are being punished for not getting service. How many votes did you vote for? This is not acceptable behavior and rhetoric. Local governments must serve in accordance with the needs of citizens. You can't take pleasure in that. Do the authorities also recall the citizens living in these neighborhoods and consider doing anything? Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0328par0569	Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0329par0570	Mr. Secretary, about 40 per cent of employees are unregistered, 4.5 per cent of workers benefiting from collective contract of employment. According to the SGK data, 16 million 437, 232 employees were issued notices in 2014, and every employer who asked for a partial-term contract could find workforce in an environment where their labour markets were strict. What do you mean by "responsibility, social rights, and the surplus of union rights?"
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0328par0571	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0330par0572	Thank you, Mr. President. In spite of the insurance card being issued to students in the vocational course, their insurance policy does not begin there. In addition, the insurance history of students who are in and out of vocational school and who go to the internship doesn't start with that date. Is it considered by your ministry that students who take vocational courses and go to vocational upper secondary schools for internships should be considered by the time they take courses? In addition, those who were laid off by the interim workers hired by İSKUR before the election began to appeal to us. Currently, in Turkey, how many workers have been hired and fired before the election by İSKUR; how many have been taken, how many have been removed? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0331par0576	Mr. Stonedemir...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0332par0577	Mr. Secretary, as with staff contractors, there is a hierarchy in full-time jobs and rental jobs. This business relationship can often turn into a mobbin. Do you have any work to prevent mobbins in this bill?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0331par0578	Thank you. The questions are over. I will now promise the government answers. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0333par0582	Mr. President, I'd like to answer one question at a time. The question came, which unions supported this bill? Now, I've expressed that here several times. Over a dozen times, we've come up with what we call three-way dialogue, and we've run it over and over again. Last week, we met to discuss this again, including workers, employers and the government, and again, on many articles... our friends on the subcommittee will know very well, our friends in the Commission will know very well, and I want to make it very clear that when it comes to this bill, when it comes to the subcommittee, all the arrangements are clearly made for the workers. All constraints are specifically restricted to prevent abuse, and they are entirely based on the demands of our unions. I made it clear yesterday, sometimes here some of our spokesman friends say...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0334par0584	What unions, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0333par0585	If you'll excuse me, I'll tell you. I'm listening patiently. One: Our unions have their own demands, all of them here, including the demands of DİSK, Turkish-İHK, HAK-İSK, but TİSK, an employer's union. We have to look out for all of them, and you have to look out for them, because they're the concepts and elements that are meant to increase employment. This is where we demand DİSK... DİSK has already categorically rejected this place, it has been in these discussions, but it's categorically rejected. So we don't accept this bill. They said, and they even tried to get together at some point, and they agreed on about five or six things, and they agreed to offer us three clauses, and then DİSK gave it up. Now, none of this is business that's in the dark, and we've discussed it one by one with our members of the Commission. It's your right to know. But believe me when I tell you that until I get here, there's no abuse, and I'm worried about this, so it's easy to say this here, Mr. Pine says that you're going to go down in history as a black thing, and on May 5th it's going to be like this. I'm not sitting over there, I'm telling you. That's out of the question.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0335par0589	History will tell.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0333par0590	My dear Pine, I've come from the business world; I've been working and working. I'm being very clear about this. We took each other through a mutual negotiation here. Yes, we've met 60 percent of the demands of the Turkish-İHK, 70, 75, but we don't have to meet them all. We have met 80 percent of the demands of the HAK-İSK; we don't have to meet them all, we can't afford them all. On the other hand, there are employers. You know, we're always making motions, and with the recent changes we've made, we've had no agreement with the employers. I mean, they believe... we almost turned it into a bird. But why are we doing this, we're taking a step towards it. And no abuse when you step into it. So we're going to watch this, we're going to have to watch this, but we're going to stop this abuse somehow. We're all here because of labor, can we afford that right? Unfortunately, I see some of our friends here with their sad talks of financial errors that they never read or had any interest in the bill. So if it wasn't a financial mistake, I wouldn't say anything, there are clear financial errors, and they're talking about a gram page without having anything to do with the law. Yes, there is no correlation between Mr Abdullah Gul's veto law and that. There was an open-ended description there, and we're going to figure out how all these open-ended descriptions might be -- we've all agreed together, there's no opening at all, and there's no constraints, and we've put so many restrictions, that there's no mobility here. I'll tell you this: how many employment offices do they have? How many are temporary workers? Mr. Tanal, right now temporary worker cannot be employed in employment offices, and one of the main reasons why we brought this is to provide this opportunity. Where are the total education costs? There is no sensitivity of private employment agencies to do their own vocational training, but if they're going to do an education, they're going to pay for it themselves, we're not going to pay for it, but I told you yesterday that education and notifications regarding business health and safety are under the employer's obligation and responsibility. Again, I'd like to say that you had a promise in the election to give the Tabherons a staff. We've completed our work on jobs in public, working in sub-employees. We're doing final consultations with our friends on a substance, but we're all done. Very soon, hopefully, we'll bring this to the House, and we'll have our friends meet with the public employment. I just want to say, it's said that in Turkey, you eliminate people's guaranteed work. I want to say again that it was also a financial error to be claimed. If that were the case, we wouldn't have dropped the off-the-book employment, which you just said was 31.8 percent of the 52 percent. Again, I'd like to point out that another incident took place along with 5552 put together with the work of the sub-employees we've all passed on. Why should we avoid severance pay? We took seniority compensation into our own hands, we took it into our own hands, we took their monthly leave as our own obligation. It wasn't enough for us to offer the difference of collective agreements they made in their own workplaces, as a government, and we took it upon ourselves. Ever since we arrived, we've been trying to put forth every effort we can to raise the standard of living for our people in power and encourage them to work better. It's clear, it's clear. One of the things I'm saying is that this is wrong. It can't be called that, because it's the work that's done. Again, I'd like to say, especially about the people who work on the highways, that we've put about 3,500 people on staff so far, and 9.915 employees have been recruited on the Highways. If there are sub-employees again today, they will be described as new, special status workers, and they will be employed in public. Again, a question came about New Cheltek. You know, there was an action there, that action...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0336par0602	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0333par0603	Thank you very much, Mr. President. ...with our Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, Berat Colonel. That night, our Undersecretary went there, and with our concerned union president, that action was over. And there's a field right next to it, setting up the field, so today is tomorrow, in a very short period of time. I've talked to them many times. Because they were workers, they were underground; there was a problem there, a business health and safety problem. We'll try to fix it, too, but our friends will be working on this new field. That's the kind of understanding we have. I've done my evaluations on pensioners before, but we have to continue the reform we've been describing as phase one reform for about ten years in terms of both our active account and our income expense account. And I'm old in retirement, and I've said that once again here, but what you are is that in every part of the world, it's a matter of attention to all developing and developing countries. We have to stick to this reform. I believe the Work for the Good Society Program ended in 2015 with 234,000 people. Right now, we're moving on to 190 grand. But the question our friends ask is, why do these people go out? Because this is not a continuous way of working; it is three months, six months, and nine months of work. And in three months, six months and nine months of work, they have a period of non-functional time, and everybody fits in. This is: This is not a method of employment; this is a model for increasing our capacity for labor. And it's a government policy to get our women, especially over 35 years old and disabled into working life, to open a new channel, to hire, and it's a government policy, and we benefit from that, and we have to increase our labor capacity. In addition to that -- I'm trying to answer it one by one -- there's one question that Demirtaş is asking, particularly about Zonguldak. Our Minister of Energy -- our Ministry of Energy policy, our government policy -- is now leading a process that wants us to become more active in our own mines, in our own coal companies.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0337par0609	Your last words, Mr. Secretary, please. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0333par0611	Well, thank you very much. He manages it, and I believe that in the coming days there will be this increase in employment because our policy is within that framework. There's a saying about the BUG-KUR tradesman. Yes, we've given the 4/A people a $100 discount, especially with the employer. At BUG-KUR, the BUG-KUR bonus would naturally increase over minimum wage from about 439 lira to 568 lira. If the minimum wage hadn't increased by 30 percent, the total amount would be 487 lira, so there would be about 80 lira plus the BUG-KURL people, a surplus for those who pay the BUG-KUR bonus. We're conscious of it. Our Prime Minister, in particular, presented this assessment when he visited the Chamber of Chambers of Traders and Artists. We're working on it.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0338par0614	Which Prime Minister?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0333par0615	Sir, please... I mean, please, please...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0339par0616	Please complete, Mr. Secretary, continue, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0333par0617	We're working on it. We have two proposals: The Chamber of Businesses and Artists Association ▪ Send us 100 liras. So what we're telling them is that we're at this point, we've got this debate: we've got a 5 percent incentive that we've done in 4/A/A, and we're working on it, and we're trying to figure out what this could contribute to our actuary account, so let's give a 5% discount to the payer in time, and let's make it permanent. Make their offer 100 lira, do it this year. We want to go to a system change because, as you can appreciate, the rates of payment in BUG-KUR are a little low. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There are other questions. And hopefully some other time about the other questions. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit08spe0340par0621	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0340par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 9th Session of the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're back to the talks of Bill 170. The commission is in place. The government is in place. There are three motions on the 6th article, two of which are the same property, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the actual or actual declaration of the law shall be removed from the text, which will be added to the first joke of Article 2 of Law No. 4904, in accordance with the 1st amendment to the Law of Turkey's Business Institution. Kamil Aydın mind Openba Fahrettin Oğuz Tor İsmail Faruk Aksu Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Ruhi Ersoy Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to file the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 6 of the Law shall be removed from the text of the 6th Amendment to the Law of the Turkish Business Institution. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Şenal Sarıhan Ali Yiğit Tur Yıldız Bicer Çetin Arık Ünal Demirtaş The signatures of the other motion are: Çağlar Demirel Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Diriyet Taşdemir Sibel Yiğitalp Nursel Aydoğan Burcu Çelik Özkan I'll ask the Commission and the government if you agree to the same motions. Is the commission in? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0341par0034	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0340par0035	I'll make a promise to the lawmakers who want to speak about the same motions. The first speaker is Burcu Çelik Özkan, Mud MP. Here you are, Mr. Steel Özkan.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0342par0039	Mr. President, before speaking on the bill, the esteemed MPs have recently imposed a lot of reproach on our citizens who have died in CHP Group Vice President Church. However, we've talked a lot about women, children, young people who have died here for days in Cizre, Sur. But you never said a word. I think this is the result of your inconsistencies, frankly. Now, folks, we think we should talk a little bit about what this bill brings in women's terms. Here's the thing: Women's flexible work is to basically concentrate on part-time, indefinitely, underprivileged work. It's flexible, part-time work, which means women take full responsibility for household chores in the remaining half-time. So, in fact, in a family that ignores equality between men and women, household chores are defined as a woman's work. Men are the subject of the public domain, and women are primarily defined as a subject in the private area, which is just at home. This means that in terms of reaching public space, women have equal rights to men, and more importantly, equal rights to equal rights. In private Turkey, the difference between wages between men and women and women, and the difference between wages between full-time jobs and part-time jobs, flexible work means being a cheap labour force when we deal with women. I mean, unfortunately, it doesn't change the fact that men seize women's labor for free. It is also a sign that the economic infrastructure of the inequality between men and women has been unfortunately strengthened. Flexible work means that you can't complete the bonus day for retirement when retirement is already at stake. This means burning bonuses for working days as well as being subject to male-related social security. What's more, when you can't reach retirement, you're dependent on a man's income for a lifetime. We women, we already know that women workers are employed because they are already underpaid, underprivileged, underprivileged, because they are already underprivileged, because they can't be as costly as male workers under any circumstances. We already know that they will continue to work here -- again. In particular, I don't think it's necessary to remind you that women who work in underprivileged jobs receive an average of 35 percent lower than men who do the same or similar work. The system is basically a system that develops the necessary solution for women to work cheaply and have three or five children. In this system, women will not be able to give birth to 3 or 5 children and work for 5 unqualified jobs for life; if they ask 3-5 children for independent pension income from their husbands, they will pay the debt of birth from their own pockets; those who have to work for the lowest wage will receive limited day care benefits; home-axis work will be encouraged; they will be forced to take care of children at the same time. Women will endure men who beat, curse, serve, so as not to starve with three or five children. I can't stand it. If they get divorced, the family ombudsmen will step in and force the women to come home. No, and they're gonna threaten to kill women and try to bring them home. If the women are not convinced again, they will be thrown out the window, stabbed or shot. The court will also cleanse and cleanse the murdering men for reasons such as incitement and protection of the family. The AKP's bill shows that it does not believe in equality between men and women, and that the repeated AKP government has always poured its intentions into the verb. It's one of the most important steps in the policies of deepening male-female inequality. Women are being tried to ensure that they continue to depend on men, and while they are doing so, they continue to supply capital with cheap women's labor. Therefore, we, the People's Democratic Party, in no way say yes to this law, we reject all of it. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0343par0048	Thank you, Mr. Steel Özkan. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0344par0050	Mr. President, the speaker has made a public statement to our group, open to our party, claiming that the People's Party of the Republic has not shown the sensitivity of the Church at the point of events in some of the districts of the Southeast Anatolian District, and that we are following unregistered policy.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0343par0051	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0345par0052	Heavy criticism, sir, no insults.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0344par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressman, Republican People's Party has shown maximum sensitivity to the incidents that have led to civilian casualties in the region, Cizrede, Sur No doubt, since the beginning of the Republican People's Party, the state must fight effectively with terrorism, terrorist organizations -- including ISIS. The Republican People's Party has not held the state's hand in this matter. The Republican People's Party is still a party claiming that the Justice and Development Party government is aiding and abetting terrorist organizations. However, there is no doubt that our sensitivity to the problems of the Church, our high sensitivity and reflexes in Turkey have always existed, not only in Sur, Cizre, but in the 780,500 square kilometers of geography, who suffers, and who suffers from injustice, and who suffers from injustice. But let's have a word with the parties. For years, we said the solution was neither on the mountain nor on the island, nor on the hill, nor on Dolmabahçe, nor on the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Since we can't tell the majority party and the Kurds about it, this blood continues to flow. It's certainly the government's responsibility here. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0346par0060	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0347par0061	Mr. President, you didn't use Kurds, you didn't use Kurds, you used false statements.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0344par0062	Why?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0347par0063	Don't you have Kurds, Congressman?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0344par0064	Yes, the Kurds are doing it wrong.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0347par0065	So he only represents Kurds, HDP represents Kurds?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0344par0066	Who? No, I mean all Kurds.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0347par0067	You said it wrong, Engin, you said it wrong.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0344par0068	Let them and the Kurds here sing and shout. Let the Kurds here say that this is where we find the solution. Where are the Kurds here? There are no Kurds here.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0347par0069	You said it wrong, Mayor, you said it wrong.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0348par0073	Cetin Arık, Kayseri MP who wants to talk about the second motion in the same manner. Here you go, Mr. Arik.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0349par0076	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. One of Turkey's most important problems is unemployment, no doubt. Millions of our citizens are expecting work today. For 14 years, the government, who ruled the country, continues to look blind to the problems of desperate people who say, "I'll do anything. " Dear lawmakers, this bill will not be the solution to unemployment as alleged. You call it guaranteed flexibility, but this practice's reward in life is definitely, definitely hired labor, legalization of the system of slavery. Dear lawmakers, with this bill, you say that the people involved in the labour market are intended to secure employment and income. Do you really believe that, Mr. Secretary? As long as it's a revenue guarantee, then let your VIP kids work on it. In this way, your children who rot at roulette tables in Singapore will also be free from their bad habits, and they will learn what it is to work, what it is to earn money. Why do you go to the children of this people with practices that you do not see, that you do not go to your own children? Dear lawmakers, do not try to defend this inhumane practice in vain. See, the 11th President, Mr. Abdullah Gul, in 2009, used the right to veto the right to abuse the labor of the worker, to create unbecoming situations in human honor. So what's changed from 2009 to today, Mr. Secretary? What changed is it that you've taken action to recreate this practice that would cause abuse, which would be unbecoming in human honor? It seems that once again you seek to deceive the people, to raise your followers. Dear lawmakers, after the June 7th elections, you promised to remove subcontractor work by stealing from us, and you have your work on it. But on the one hand, I'm going to remove the crown. How moral is it to take votes from the people and bring up workmanship from the other? This is both insincere and unconscionable. While your children rot on roulette tables, these people's children rot their elbows at school, and then they're out of work. While your children who don't know what school they're finishing, Ahmet's son who finished college, is ashamed to ask his father for his allowance, and then you get up and impose on these children to work for rent. Shame is a sin! For once, step forward for the children of this nation! Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you know very well that the fancy words you use on the grounds of the bill do not reflect the truth. As you know, this bill will not solve unemployment, but it will also pave the way for our helpless people to work under conditions that are beneath human dignity. Dear lawmakers, as a result, regulations such as hired labor and remote work will reduce the unemployment of power, prevent off-the-books. It is actually an attempt to create a garden of roses without thorns for capital in its political output; it is not, indeed, the workers that are thought to be here. Dear lawmakers, this bill will open important breaches to our rights to work in our business law. Private employment agencies can hire workers; it will bring problems such as abuse of unemployed people, the removal of employment security, the removal of workers' organisation and collective bargaining rights, the removal of the strike rights, the creation of two workers' groups in different positions at work, the exploitation of immigrants. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please, for once, come and think of these people, not your followers. You know, when you put up posters saying, "Man of the nation," for once, make up your mind for this nation, not for the moneybags who are blaspheming. (HPP) Please don't put dynamite on the basis of working peace. Please make decisions for the children of this country, considering that your own children work under unbecoming conditions. I salute our High Council.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0350par0088	Thank you, Mr. Arik.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0351par0089	Fear God, be ashamed, be ashamed! May my Lord test you with your child!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0352par0090	They're taking bread home because of those people. They've cursed. He says, shame!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0353par0091	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0354par0092	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0353par0093	Mr. President, the speaker has insulted our entire group by saying that your children are rotting elbows at roulette tables. According to 69...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0355par0094	Your children, your children, your children... lt's a shame what you've done. You're being rude. You dirty bastard!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0354par0095	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0356par0097	Wait a minute, wait a minute! What the hell?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0355par0098	You get your own band!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0356par0099	What did he say?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0357par0100	Congressmans, please, sir. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0356par0101	Where are you coming from? Where are you coming from? Don't come here!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit09spe0357par0102	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0357par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're back to the talks of Bill 170. The commission is in place. The government is in place.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0358par0005	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0357par0006	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0358par0007	I've had a request for sarcasm, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0357par0008	Yes, in the last session, you asked for a word due to bullying, but I had to take a break because of the tension. I give you my word on the grounds of bullying, since you requested it in the last session. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0358par0013	Mr. President, dear friends, Mr. Cetin has basically given a speech from him full of harsh expressions that I didn't expect. He got the kids involved, and he did it by showing up at everyone's kids. Some time ago, the Republican People's Party brought in a group of autism proposals, while the matter was being discussed, Cetin Bey gave a very sensitive speech. I understand that not only is he a person who's getting close to the subject technically, but he's a person who's talking here, feeling the pain of life, feeling the pain of it. Our children may sometimes have problems. Gambling is basically a disease, so if my child has a problem with gambling, it's important to think about whether politics can fit into humanity and humanity. Besides, it's probably something we all have in common, and it's against it. I understand that the criticism of politicians' public performances, please do it all the way to the end, if there are faults, flaws, but talks about politicians' children in the way that politics can be made, with the intention of bringing responsibility to their fathers, to their families, can only harm the owner. You mean one example, and we know what you mean, right or wrong, it's a separate bet, and I'm sure it's not for you, Mr. Cetin, to accuse a whole group of your children and your children who play the game. That's what I think. From where you're sitting, I hope you feel the same way. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0359par0018	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Altay, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0360par0022	Thank you. Mr. President, lawmakers, no doubt as Mr. Bostanci has just pointed out, we must avoid political debates, our families and children here. In all honesty, in this Parliament, the children of all the political parties are my children, my brothers, and there is no hesitation in that. And our congressman, of course, means that you, not our sons, are speaking in a format based on a story in the paper... Of course, it's more than just an expression. Ancients know, and new friends happen to them from time to time at work; in these Parliaments, such road accidents, such expressions that go beyond intent, happen. The point is, the intent here is intent. No one can doubt that your children are one of my children, one of our children, and a brother. Everyone should be at ease. You know our congressman, he's one of the kindest deputies in Parliament, and I'm sure you're vouching for the fact that you're not in a position to offend, offend, offend the children of our lawmakers, who are not present in this courtroom. In that regard, I desire and demand that this matter be perceived, thought that way, considered that way. Again, in this Parliament, let this be a lesson to everyone, to all of us. I say it should be our top priority to keep our children, our families out of the debate here, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0361par0026	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Ironel, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0362par0029	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I mean, about the situation that happened tonight -- we mentioned it last week -- we're dealing with situations that we don't really approve of. One is that when one situation happens, it's wrong for another group to walk on another group of parties, to act as if they're invading the party group, and we say we don't accept it. If there's been a mispronounced statement...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0363par0032	It's the right thing to do from there, laughing and filming. You're filming with a smile.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0362par0033	You see, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0364par0034	You go ahead, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0362par0035	...if there's a flaw, if there's a review or a dose that goes beyond criticism, the group's vice presidents or our fellow officials can stand up and respond verbally to it. I'd like to say that this is, in the first degree, from a male-dominated mentality, and it makes itself very clear in Parliament. Number two: very sexist rhetoric related to women in particular. Since yesterday -- there are arrests, there are in previous sessions, and we didn't want to say -- that's what we've been saying in our group -- that's what we're talking about -- I'll shoot you, I'll shoot you, I'll shoot you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0365par0037	Yeah, I don't know why you made a promise to him, but tell me something about the preacher.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0362par0038	...to our group and to our female friends, we can't accept their sexist approach, I'm being very clear. So, once again, I'm saying that we should never accept such sexist attitudes in this Parliament, that no one should accept them.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0366par0039	You say the same thing, translate it, we get it.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0362par0040	So, in this Parliament -- we've said it last week, and we're saying it this week -- everyone needs to examine themselves against such approaches, and in Parliament... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to say once again that female axillary expressions need to be weighted. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0367par0044	Thank you, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0368par0045	What does it have to do with the woman's axis? Tell me something about this. You made a promise.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0369par0046	Say something for the kids, say something for the kids.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0370par0047	It's the same attitude even when you say it, Mayor. I mean, why are you being so impatient, I'm having a hard time understanding it.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0371par0048	Thank you, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0372par0049	What did you talk about?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0370par0050	I'm condemning once again the understanding of a group that treats women so disrespectfully.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0371par0051	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Mr. Akçay, I see you have no demands.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0373par0053	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0371par0054	If you're going to demand it, of course I can. Here you go. I'll turn on your mic.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0373par0056	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't really want to talk about it either, so I don't want to talk about it, and we've talked about it from time to time. These are really sad events. Of course, it is necessary to make sure that the words spoken are not inflammatory and instigating, particularly inquisitive. Our criticism may be severe, which is expected to be as long - suffering as possible by the ruling wing or by the criticised individuals or political parties. However, the reaction to this provocation or response is also needed to be measured. Now, it's not possible to welcome the march in groups, such as extreme responses, almost attacks. So, I'll talk to our speaker friend -- inshallah -- and then I'll talk to him later, which could be expressed differently, with the advice of his experienced fellow lawmakers and older brothers. I, for example, think that if your children had been called children instead of words, they would not have reacted to this extent. I'm just saying that as an example, I think it's good to be careful of what we say and to be very moderate in how we react. I hope we don't want to see such incidents. I'd like to express the harsh insults and blasphemy that I've seen here in person, and I don't want to repeat who said what here. They're worse for us. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0374par0059	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. I submit to you the same motions on the 6th Amendment...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0375par0066	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0374par0067	Yes, there is a request for a roll call. I'll do the roll call first. Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir, Mr. Toğrul, Mr. Acar Başaran, Mr. Yithiralp, Mr. Irgat, Mr. Çelik Özküçe Ertan, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Geveri, Mr. Gülser Yıldırım, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Ocalan, Mr. Zeydan, Mr. Dora, Mr. Doğan. Initiating roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the actual or actual declaration of the law shall be removed from the text, which will be added to the first joke of Article 2 of Law No. 4904, in accordance with the 1st amendment to the Law of Turkey's Business Institution. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor (Heromarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0376par0085	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0374par0086	Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, Alderman of Kahramanmarash. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0377par0089	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the MHP Group regarding the 6th amendment of Law Bill 170. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, in my speech on the proposal on the first article of the bill, I stated that there was a total reduction of 420,000 jobs -- December 2015, 2016 -- which led to 250 million additional financing. The reduction in employment continued in February 2016 with an additional 30,000 reductions. Although the reduction in employment has occurred in the past years, I had stated that the reductions were less than 2016, that the crisis in the hard-working tourism sector could not absorb employment reductions, that the situation was very serious. Dear lawmakers, the salvation of our country yesterday or in the future is not about flexible work or anything else, but about the prevention of off-the-book employment of the off-the-book economy. This bill, which we call "simply work," will be legalized by the adoption of 12 articles. On this occasion, I would like to rephrase a matter that I believe is very important to our country. Our country's main problem isn't flexible work, I'll point out, the most important issue of our country today is no doubt terrorism. But the truth is, what's the most important problem after terrorism? The answer I'm going to give is off-the-book employment. Unregistered employment is the source of terrorism. Because, as I'll explain downstairs, if this important problem, which almost reaches half the central budget size of 2016, has been reduced to reasonable levels, investments will increase several times the amount today, which will reflect on the citizens in business and in height. It won't be easy to exploit a citizen who has a job and a vaccine. That's why I think the government's most important subject should be off-the-book employment. Public organisations related to the Ministry of Labor and Finance must seek to reduce non-registered employment by taking every precaution. Dear lawmakers show themselves that non-registered employment, employees are not reported to the SGK, work days are reported missing, insurance premiums are reported missing. In our country today, unregistered employment is 34 per cent. This means that one of the three employees is off the record. The agricultural sector, construction sector, small businesses, temporary and seasonal jobs, hotels and restaurants are the most busy sectors and businesses off the books. Individuals prefer to turn to unregistered jobs because unemployment is high and they have difficulty finding a registered job. It's important to point out that the widespread and efficient control is not, unfortunately, available. In this sense, 2,600 newly committed supervisors are a positive step in fighting off-the-book employment. As long as we don't bring this important problem down to the level of developed countries, it's never possible for our country to move up to the advanced countries. See, as of October 2015, there are 2.8 million employees from 4/A, 4/B and 4/C. In 2015, the primordial cost of the SGK is around 160 billion liras. The 160 billion-percent premium is 82.5 billion, with 66 per cent of registered employment available. In other words, when we reduce non-registered employment by 1 per cent, our bonus is about 2.5 billion dollars. Add the tax to that, and it'll tell you how big it is. With a tax loss of at least 100 billion liras, the unregistered employment has reached 200 billion liras. This amount is about four times the total investment of 51.6 billion euros in 2016. When you think about the impact this loss will have on investment over the years, there are about half the premiums and tax loss of the central management budget every year. Even with this simple calculation, it is inevitable that we should direct all our power to reduce off-the-book employment. How do we prevent it? And I'd like to explain this in a later article. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0378par0099	Thank you, Mr. Tor. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Subsequent 6 has been accepted. There are four motions on the 7th article, two of which are the same property, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the final sentence of Article No. 4904 of Article 17 of Article 17 of the Law on the Amendment to the Turkish Business Institution Act, it proposes to replace the "ten times" of the "thirty times" sign in the last sentence of Article 17 of Article 7 of the Law on the Law on Change in Turkey; to add and propose the following sentence after the first sentence of its thirteenth joke. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Ramazan Can Tülay Kaynarca Emrullah Business Necip Shield Osman Love Look "In accordance with Article 7 (f) of Article 7 of Law 4857, complaints made by the Institution are referred to the Chairman of the Employment Review Board for review." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 1st joke (a) of Law 4904, which is envisioned to be replaced by the 7th Amendment to the Law on Turkey's Business Association Law, is to be removed from the text by the "real people" (f) which is included in the text (i.e. the "fit" in the second joke, to be added to the "we," and to the end of the first joke (e.g.). Kadir Koçdemir Kamil Open Aydın Mind Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Ismail Faruk Aksu Ahmet Selim Yurdakul No tax or SGK bonus debt. Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to file the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 177th Amendment to Turkey's Business Institution Law shall be removed from the text of the 7th Amendment. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Ünal Demirtaş Musa Çam Cetin Arık Tur Star Birçer Şenal Sarıhan Signed by the same motion: Çağlar Demirel Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Sibel Yiğitalp Suryet Taşdemir Nursel Aydoğan Saadet Capable Does the Commission participate in the same motions? Sir, we can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0379par0140	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0378par0141	I'll make a promise to the lawmakers who wish to discuss the same motions. The first speaker is Saadet Capable, Batman MP. Here you go, Mr. Skillful.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0380par0145	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 7th amendment of the underlying bill. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Clearly, the laws and institutions that regulate working life in Turkey are inadequate in this regard. The provisional working conditions at the core of private employment offices will not solve these problems, and will deepen the lack of working life. As we always say as HDP, labor is the only source of economic value. It is clear that the law will not repay the laborer's labor. For example, minimum wage, severance, side payments, weekly overtime hours, insurance, annual leave, occupational security and so on are inversely proportional to the profits of the capital class, so one must be forced to lose to the other, and that would be in favour of the employer. As a representative of the capital sector, it is vital that the working life of the AKP, which has entered the political scene and has been one of the most loyal practitioners of neoliberal policies in the world for thirteen years, has been flexible and unsecured. Because the AKP's government, on the one hand, intends to implement the neoliberal transformation, and on the other hand, to implement the law known as "the law of subservient labor" in public to overcome the straitlocking in favor of capital as quickly as possible. In this context, it is clear that the limited union rights will be reduced and will eliminate job security with the arrangement of "renowned laborer" or "employee broker." The severance will be virtually terminated, eliminating the report's compensation, and by this law, the way they call safe flexibility will become an unsecured and flexible way of working. Unregistered employment will not fall as claimed, because these flexible operating methods preferred by employers are off the record. Unregistered employment will not gain assurances, but workers in the formal sector will be unsecured in areas where union organisations exist. The working class will be condemned to slave relations under the name of the renter, and all rights related to income, pension, annual leave and health will be completely eliminated. Rental workers will be sentenced to much lower wages than the other workers who do the same. In our country, which is on top of the world in terms of long working hours, hired workers will be in a busy work pace with a heavy exploitation wheel. In our country, business law is established on contract, workplace and business arrangements between workers and workers. This bill will nullify legal regulations. That way his work life will become completely illegal. This will allow the employer to lay off collectively, and the employer will be able to hire the same worker for eight months, more cheaply than the office of slavery, without a union, without an unfair law. When employers get the right to hire workers from private employment offices, they will be under constant pressure on staff workers. Rental workers will not be able to benefit from labour health and occupational safety practices; they will face heavy, dangerous, and deadly risks. The rate of labor killings in our country will be even higher. Rental workers will have no opportunity to benefit from the unemployment fund. THE job will become dysfunctional, the public labour force will be dysfunctional, eliminating their responsibilities, private employment offices will be able to hire workers, and the public will have a working order to run a subcontractorial. The regulation, which has been on the agenda for years and has created great controversy by Mr. Abdullah Gul -- and another speaker of the period -- which I believe is important -- could produce consequences outside of its true purpose, and could lead to negative practices, such as the abuse of workers in the matter, the birth of unpromising situations, and the dissolution of the peace of work -- may have been partially vetoed. Isn't the same reason still valid? Can you guarantee he won't break the business peace? Who can argue that workers will not be sentenced to an unsecured life? Yes, that's right, private employment offices off the record are already available. However, I ask you, is it your duty to legitimize what is off the record? Don't you have the authority or influence to inspect off-the-books locations? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They're building temporary labor, not permanent labor. What do you do when you're not trying to condemn the public to permanent unemployment and make them depend on private employment offices? There's a fixed-term contract of employment in the Employment Act, so why do you insist on hiring?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0381par0154	Time's up, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0382par0155	Thank you, Mr. Skillful. Congressmans, I wonder who warned me.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0383par0157	Yeah, I mean, you don't have to do the same thing every time.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0384par0158	Finally, I want to finish with a sentence. As a result, private employment offices are slave markets, human trafficking sites. Human trafficking is the greatest crime of humanity. In order for this bill not to pass, I feel that all parties must take a common stance, and once again I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0385par0161	Thank you, Mr. Skillful. About the other proposal of the same nature, Yakup Akkaya, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Akkaya.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0386par0165	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course we started on May 5th, and we're arriving on the morning of May 6th. Today is May 6th. Forty-four years ago, on May 6, 1972, three saplings were slaughtered. We cherish the sea, Joseph, Hussein. This shows that there are some who, when they rule this country, when they rule it, think they're kings, where they punish citizens, citizens with their fascist practices, but when they die, no one remembers or even curses them.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0387par0167	Right.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0386par0168	The Kenan universe is at the beginning of them. But the next thing we know, even though those three saplings were slaughtered forty-four years ago, if they're still being remembered today, if they're still being held in the hearts of the young people of this country today, it's clear what that means. I mean, being in certain positions at certain times doesn't mean that this country gets into the hearts of these citizens. The important thing is that if the individuals in this country are contributing to the interests of the people, the interests, the interests of the country, their lives, at least a little bit, they will be remembered forever, just as Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is remembered. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear MPs, in fact, we understand you, our friends from the AKP, we serve together here. Your nerves are tense, so we understand why you're nervous when we consider what's happening inside the party.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0388par0171	Don't tease me! Don't tease me!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0386par0172	There's been a civilian blow to your party, and you're trying to take it out on us.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0389par0173	Mind your own business! Mind your own business!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0386par0174	We love you. Look, talking dirty doesn't suit any congressman here.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0389par0176	Mind your own business!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0386par0177	If you have any ideas, you can come up here and say it. I can get my mouth dirty, too. Me, too.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0389par0178	Don't tease me!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0386par0179	I'm on sale, you answer here.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0389par0180	Don't pick on me here!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0386par0181	You have a group of vice presidents there.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0390par0182	Don't tease me! Don't tease me!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0386par0183	At least it's a misunderstanding with your group of vice presidents who are in charge here.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0391par0184	If you want to talk about it, talk about it.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0386par0185	You may not like me, you may not like my speech, but I'm not insulting anyone here, I'm just saying my thoughts.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0391par0186	Talk about the motion!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0386par0187	Yeah, well, that's why you're so upset.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0391par0188	We're not upset.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0386par0189	Why? Because your party's a problem, you're upset...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0392par0190	It's not broken!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0386par0191	And that's why you're picking on me here.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0392par0192	Yeah, 200 people are here. Look, there's five of you!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0386par0193	But thank you again...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0392par0194	Look, we've got 200 people, you've got five! Sorry, correction, six people!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0386par0195	I'm thanking you again somewhere, at least you're not walking up to me.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0393par0197	Congressmans, please, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0386par0198	So, about that, I also want to thank you for your civilized sit-down.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0394par0199	No one here has the right to insult anyone else.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0386par0200	It's not an insult.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0394par0201	Since you said so...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0395par0202	Congressmans, please don't make small talk.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0386par0203	It's not an insult, you know.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0395par0204	Mr. Akkaya, address the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0386par0205	So I'd like to say something to the Minister here. A minister we really love, a politician, but I don't understand why this bill is so persistent. So it's not in the rules of visa exemption. In your political life, you've also been president of a party as far as I know. Now, you have a convention on May 22nd.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0396par0206	There's no bread, Hajji. There's no bread for you. There's no bread, there's no bread.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0386par0207	In fact, really, because of your previous experience at the congress on May 22nd, perhaps because of your experience as president and prime minister of the AKP...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0397par0208	That's none of your business.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0398par0209	Mind your own fucking party!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0399par0210	Mr. Akkaya, according to the Civil Code, I invite you to return to the subject and talk about the matter.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0400par0211	Now, if you want this bill out now, we can get it out in five minutes.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0398par0212	You find the president, the president! You've lost 11 elections, find the president!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0400par0213	We don't have a problem with that, we don't have a problem, so we want to contribute. And then there's the thing: we don't have any opinions about the motions given because we're against the way of this legal arrangement.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0401par0215	Time's up, time's up.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0400par0216	We're against it, no matter what the nature of the arrangements.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0401par0217	Ten seconds.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0400par0218	Because we've been defending this law from the very beginning. Naturally, we don't think it's right to hire labor through private employment offices. I give you all my love and respect again. That's exactly what I'm returning to my friends who insulted me. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0402par0222	You couldn't explain the motion.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0403par0223	Thank you, Mr. Akkaya. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0404par0227	We have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0403par0228	There's got to be a roll call. I'll meet the need for roll call. Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Toğrul, Mr. Irgat, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Acar Başaran, Mr. Özküçe Ertan, Mr. Çelik Özkan, Mr. Gülser Yıldırım, Mr. Geveri, Mr. Zeydan, Mr. Ocalan, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Dora...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0405par0230	Sir, you haven't read 19 or 1 people.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0406par0231	There's 20 of us.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0405par0232	No, you haven't read Heroalp, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0407par0233	19, Mr. Yiğitalp did not rise, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0408par0234	The hero was up, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0407par0235	Mr. Heroalp, if you stand up, I'll count. Mr. Yigitalp, look, I counted Mr. Irgat, you were sitting down, so I went after you to Aydoğan.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0409par0236	He was sitting down. Yeah, that'll be 19. Bravo!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0410par0237	I was standing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0407par0238	No, sir, no, I'm counting carefully. Please, no one will sit down. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] The number has reached 20. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[A round of applause from AKP rows]] I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0411par0249	Bravo group, bravo!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0412par0250	Mr. Secretary, the AKP Group is demanding overtime. Your friends are demanding overtime.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0413par0251	We will, we will.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0412par0252	You're Minister of Labor and Social Security, that's no way to work!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0413par0253	He's on duty.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0412par0254	How will you protect the workers' rights?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0413par0255	Let's give you a rest.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0414par0256	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 1st joke (a) of Article 4904 of Law 4904, which was envisioned to be replaced by the 7th Amendment in Turkey's Business Institution Act, with the 170th Amendment of the Law on the Law of Turkey (F), was to be removed from the text by the real people (e.g. I), and to the end of the first joke (e.g.) and to the end of the text (e.g. to the end of the text), and to the end of the first joke (e.g.g.), which is included in the second statement of the ilah (e.g.g. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor (Heromarash) and his friends No tax or SGK bonus debt. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0415par0264	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0414par0265	I'm reading the reason: The establishment of private employment offices in the form of a corporate person will boost confidence, preventing the opening of a random employment office with a minimum fee of 100 times the amount of collateral, and the deadline for the deadline will not be enough for a 15-day application before the end of the deadline. I submit the motion to your votes... III. Exposure
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0416par0271	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0414par0272	Is there a roll call?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0417par0273	But no, Mr. President. It's just been done.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0416par0274	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0418par0275	Mr. President, the Civil Code is being abused.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0416par0276	Shouldn't we use our civil rights?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0419par0277	That's not a right. There is. It happened two minutes ago.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0420par0280	Maybe two minutes. We have every right.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0419par0281	That's not a right.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0421par0282	Mr. Toğrül, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Acar Başaran, Mr. Yiğitalp, Mr. Irgat, Mr. Çelik Özkan, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan, Mr. Geveri, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Ocalan, Mr. Zeydan, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Gün Yıldırım, Mr. Dora. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the "twelve times" of the "twelve times" in the final sentence of Article No. 4904, which has been replaced by Article 7 of the Law on the Amendment to the Turkish Business Institution Act, and the following sentence be added after the first sentence of the thirteenth joke. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends "In accordance with Article 7 (f) of Article 7 of Law 4857, complaints made by the Institution are referred to the Chairman of the Employment Review Board for review." Does the commission agree with the motion? We commend you, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0422par0299	We agree.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0423par0300	Motive...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0421par0301	I'm reading the reason: The amount of guarantees, which ensures the selection of private employment offices to form a temporary business relationship from more institutionalised firms and guaranteeing the hiring of workers, can be increased by the minister by 20 times the amount of collateral required to establish a temporary business relationship. The complaint shall be reviewed by the Ministry's Head of the Employment Review Board, according to the second clause (f) of Law 757. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. The Commission on Articles has a request for a reduction. Yes, Mr. President. Mr. President, we have a technical request to correct the matter. We would like the bill to be replaced in the form of the amendment to the third amendment of Article 4904, which is part of Article 7 of the framework. In accordance with the motion accepted and the review of the Commission, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the clause is accepted. There are four motions on the 8th article, two of which are the same property, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first joke of Article 1804 of Law No. 4904 shall be added to Article 1 of Article 18 of Article 18 of the Law, which is envisioned to be replaced by Article 8 of the Law on the Amendment to the Turkish Business Institution Act. Kamil Aydın mind Openba Fahrettin Oğuz Tor İsmail Faruk Aksu Nuri Okutın Ahmet Selim Yurdakul From what he put into work, he must receive or benefit directly or indirectly." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the following joke be added after the fourth joke of Article 4904, which has been replaced by Article 8 of the Law on the Amendment to Turkey's Business Institution Act, and the other jokes be addressed according to this. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Ramadan Can Fuat Koktaş Amasya Kırkkale Samsun Ali Özkaya Orhan Deligöz İmran Kılıç "In the case of bankruptcy, closure of the private employment office, the cancellation of the power of intermediary or interim employment, or the failure to pay labour fees by the bureau, the other laws will be paid in priority from the guarantee they will receive workers regardless of the provisions set out by the office." Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to file the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of Article 8 of the Law shall be removed from the text of the Article 8 of the Law shall be changed under the Turkish Business Institution Act. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Şenal Sarıhan Ali Yiğit Tur Star Birçer Musa Pine Cetin Arık The signatures of the other motion are: Çağlar Demirel Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Diriyet Taşdemir Sibel Yiğitalp Nursel Aydoğan Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Does the Commission participate in the same motions? Sir, we can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0424par0345	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0421par0346	Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan, Van MP who wants to talk about the same proposals. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0425par0349	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. Good evening, everyone. I made a promise on my group's proposal on the 8th article of the proposed bill. Dear lawmakers, of course, since the 1980s, when neoliberal policies began to be adopted, all political powers that have taken place have gone hand-to-hand with capital, making deep attacks on the rights of workers. However, the rights earned by employees during no ruling period have not been imposed as much as in the 14-year period of AKP ruling. In addition to creating working environments where social rights are not read, the AKP government is sending workers to their deaths in order to employ them. Just two days ago, the Labor Health and Occupational Safety Council announced the statistics of business murders between January and April. According to these statistics, at least 115 workers lost their lives in January, at least 143 workers in February, at least 160 workers in March, and at least 168 workers in April, so at least 586 workers were killed in the first four months of 2016. Turkey's performance has also become history as the first four months of business murder. Instead of developing policies that would prevent workers from dying in the interest of capital, the state, which has reached such serious levels of business-murder rationing, is continuing to deepen labour exploitation, just as it is in this bill that we're discussing every day. According to the bill, workers can also be hired through private employment offices in jobs that are urgent for business safety and in difficult situations that affect production. This arrangement will do nothing but threaten the health and safety of workers. As you know, workers who have not been trained in occupational health and safety in dangerous and dangerous jobs are not allowed to work according to the Law on Occupational Health and Safety 6331. Although this bill has indicated that the provisions of 6331 will be carried out, as with all the laws in recent times, the issue has been very vague here. Only the employer is obliged to train workers who work in a temporary work relationship in terms of business health and safety. However, when and how will workers be trained in a temporary employment, which is needed urgently? Even when workers are dying every day because there is not enough control already, it is clear that the government has learned nothing from the mistakes of the government, giving labour health entirely to private employment offices and capital, even when the risk is intense. I'm afraid the job killings will continue unless the job guarantees are guaranteed and the flexible work is limited. If this bill promotes flexibility and insecurity is finalised, the hired workers will not be able to benefit from the practice of labour health and occupational safety; they will face heavy, dangerous, and deadly risks. The living and working conditions of the workers will be worsened by this bill, which violates humanity's honor for the interests of the capital owners. Finally, I would like to point out that we are opposed to this bill, which aims to establish a slave system, as representatives of a party that struggles to create human conditions for everyone to live in. The government must put aside efforts to meet the capital's demands and heed the demands of the worker, the worker, and give up this bill. We say no to the slavery law. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0426par0359	Thank you, Mr. Ozky Ertan. Zonguldak MP Ünal Demirtaş will talk about the other proposal of the same nature. Here you are, Mr. Demirtaş.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0427par0363	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, with this clause, administrative fines have been issued for private employment offices that violate these laws. We also had objections at this particular point during subcommittee work. When we look at the figures, these administrative fines are far from deterrent, preventing private employment agencies from acting illegally. So we suggested that these sentences be increased in a deterrent way, but unfortunately that didn't happen. Dear lawmakers, Mr. Minister of Labor says: "By this law, we will register non-registered workers. " It is a good cause, a right purpose. We have nothing to say about this target. We're already defending this as a party, and we're saying that unregistered workers need to be recorded, but look, when we look at the off-the-book rate in Turkey, 31.8% of the workers work off the record, according to TİK data. So when we look at this number, we have about 4,200,000 workers working off the books. So when we look at the total employment market, the numbers of 18 million employees are at this level. Most of these unregistered studies are in the agricultural sector. So, how do we get this on the record? Is that part of the bill? Believe me, I've read the bill over and over and over again. That's not part of the bill; there's no way in hell you can prevent that from being off the books as it stands in this bill. Moreover, with this bill, we will register non-registerment. There is also the rights of the workers in the register. At least 6 million workers will be excluded from the scope of Law 4857. I care a lot about this place, look, if you want to fight off the books, you need to increase the number of inspectors first. Look, how many investigators does the Department of Labor have? At the moment, according to our data, it's 1.530. And how many of these are social inspectors? I mean, he's overseeing the working conditions of the workplace outside of work security, 800 inspectors. Even with 800 inspectors, it takes seven years to inspect 1,750,000 businesses, friends, so it takes 800 inspectors seven years to inspect 1,700,000 businesses. So you can't even control the workplaces in the register yet, but you're saying that by this law, we'll record off the record. It's not possible. On the other hand, 14 years have passed since you were in power, to record what was done off the record? There are some improvements, but not enough. It's a very high rate. On this occasion, we think it is reasonable for friends to see it in the shop. Dear lawmakers, there are two sectors outside the scope of interim employment under this bill: one is a mining business and the other is a public business. In this arrangement, the limitation is quite inadequate. Look, the most important thing here is occupational health and occupational safety. Look, in your 14 years of power, 17,000 workers were killed in business accidents, and 70,000 workers were unable to function. What's the biggest reason for this? It's subcontractorization, my friends, which means that there's been an explosion in business accidents because of his return to the subcontractor republic. Now, private employment offices are built to be subcontractors of subcontractors because they can subcontract employees of the private employment office to subcontractors as well as the original employer, and there is no restrictions on the law. We gave him our warnings, but he was ignored. Thus, with such an arrangement, there will be a situation that will cause more business accidents in our country, which is already not a business safety culture. That way more workers will die, more workers will be crippled, so the bill will invite business killings. I think you'll suffer from the deaths of workers born of this. Dear lawmakers, ruling lawmakers, give up this bill that's going to kick the shit out of the worker. My sincerest love and respect to all of you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0428par0374	Thank you, Mr. Demirtaş. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the following joke be added after the fourth joke of Article 4904, which has been replaced by Article 8 of the Law on Change in the Law of Turkey's Business Institution, and the following jokes be addressed according to this. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends "In the case of the bankruptcy, closure of the private employment office, the cancellation of the power of intermediary or interim employment, or the failure to pay labour fees by the bureau, the guarantee is paid primarily from the guarantee that they will receive workers regardless of the provisions set out in other laws." Does the commission agree with the motion? We commend you, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0429par0384	We agree.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0430par0385	Motive...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0428par0386	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to protect workers' wages if labour fees are not paid during the term specified in the Employment Law, if the authority of private employment offices is revoked, the office is bankrupt or closed. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first joke of Article 1804 of Law No. 4904 shall be added to Article 1 of Article 18 of Article 18, which is envisioned for the amendment to the Turkish Business Institution Act. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor (Heromarash) and his friends From what he put into work, he must receive or benefit directly or indirectly." Does the commission agree with the motion? Sir, we can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0431par0398	We can't agree.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0432par0399	Motive...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0428par0400	I'm reading the reason: Some real and legal people who serve public institutions through the purchase of services have been intended to prevent severe sanctions, considering that some of the costs of the people they work for are being paid later on. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 8th article has been accepted. There are three proposals on the 9th article, two of which are the same property. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to the third joke of Article 1904 of Law No. 4904, which is envisioned to be replaced by Article 9. Kamil Aydın mind Openba Fahrettin Oğuz Tor İsmail Faruk Aksu Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Mustafa Kalaycı Ruhi Ersoy Desire Erdem "If the use of this Law is determined, the first clause of Article 20 of this Law (k) will remain sealed for the first time in writing, and its permission will be revoked in a repeat. " Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to file the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of the 9th Article of the Law shall be removed from its text. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Şenal Sarıhan Ali Yiğit Tur Star Birçer Musa Pine Cetin Arık The signatures of the other motion are: Çağlar Demirel Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Diriyet Taşdemir Sibel Yiğitalp Ziya Pir Gülser Yıldırım Does the Commission participate in the same motions? Sir, we can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0433par0437	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0428par0438	I'll make a promise to the lawmakers who want to talk about the same motions. Now, Mardin MP Gülser Yıldırım will speak. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0434par0442	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to bill 170. This bill claims to contribute particularly to young people's work experience, long-term unemployed people's unemployment, and to boost the motivations of those who are out of the labour market. However, these polished and decorated sentences are a complete lie and a deception. Today, when we look at economic data, Turkey's exports are shrinking, foreign capital output is accelerating, the public and private sector is difficult to pay its debt, which has been bought in the time of currency and half the economy's size, and as a result of all this, the economic trust index is at its lowest. Here, the AKP wants to bring in the hired laborer's law in order to get out of its misery. You will move people from their homes and from their cities, and you will fill the reserve unemployment staff, and you will not do everything in your power to prevent union organization, and then you will impose slavery on the laborer, under the name of the worker, and on the name of the worker. Look, what is this bill really about? This bill is the exploitation of the worker, the imprisonment of an unsecured life, the gain of severance and annual paid leave, the non-retired, the low-paying, and the most important is the public support of the work killings. This bill is clearly a coup against the workers and the workers in order to profit from the investors and their money fathers and to protect them. We know that labor is the only source of economic value. Our thinking, our faith, and our conscience are on the side of those who put this effort into play. Those who put this bill in front of us and those who will approve it should be publicly known not to the workers and workers, but to the bosses, to the money fathers. It's a bill that makes the worker more massive on the back of the rich and the poor. Is this your idea of justice? See, Turkey has signed the ILO Convention on Freedom of Organization 87, and therefore has to conduct a full and detailed consultation with employees and employers' organisations in a amendment to collective contract or working conditions. However, a coup government that does not recognise its own Constitution cannot be expected to adhere to international contracts. Just two days ago, when Izmir wanted to demonstrate your democratic responses to the rental labor law, security forces were exposed and detained from his manager to his employee. Just as you have passed the laws of death, slaughter and destruction under the name of public safety, and you have tried to sell it to the public as protecting the lives and property of the people, you are now trying to impose the laborer's slavery and insecurity law into society as more employment laws. We know that the blow you're trying to do to Kurdish politics is not independent of the blow you want to do to the worker. All of this is an indication of what kind of dictatorship the AKP's government has gone to. Finally, we, the private employment agencies, say that we are unconditionally opposed to the existence of the entity and that the bill based on the slaughter of this worker must be withdrawn immediately, and we once again say no to the hired labor law from here.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0435par0451	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. About the other motion of the same nature Necati Yilmaz, Ankara MP... Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0436par0455	Mr. President, Mr. Court, members of the Council, the esteemed workers of our Parliament and of our press, I salute you all. On this day of May 6th, I honor the three saplings walking to the gallows with a full-fledged democracy, full-fledged independence. I have made a promise on the bill for the arrangement, which is perceived as a public hire. This bill, primarily, violates international contracts and criteria, as stated by our opposition, is an ideologically clear reflection of the view of neoliberal policies to work. None of the views the government has expressed in favour of this bill, in reason or in the Commission have realism and credibility. This bill aims to ensure that all the gains that the struggle for labour has uncovered so far will be purged in time. Therefore, neither in drafting the bill nor in the negotiations process in the Commission have the union's views been taken, nor have their objections been heard. In fact, the press statement that DİSK's employees wanted to make at the door of the Assembly to announce to you that they had objected to this bill has not been allowed, nor has it been accepted. This statement has been blocked by police measures in the same way as Turkey's coup and extraordinary process of governance. As a reminder of the street footage of September 12th, the House is surrounded by TOMA (as well as the army of police). Whereas those workers came here not to invade the House, but to preach their voices to you. Members of parliament, AKP's policy to govern Turkey in chaos has now been declared. The AKP, which destroyed our social peace with its 13-year practices, aims to eliminate our work peace altogether. It's a bill of imposition. There is no social consensus on this bill. This bill restores slave trade, legitimizes, institutionalizes. With this bill, employment guarantees are eliminated, income, annual furloughs are eliminated, pensions and health benefits are rendered ineffective, notices and severance benefits are eliminated, 7 million workers -- half of my employment -- are made to be unsecured through slave offices; the rules are made to be unconcerned, unsecured and flexible work styles are reduced; employers are thus being allowed to use and leave workers in front of the door, allowing the employer to provide cheaper workforces, thus reducing the number of staff members. The AKP, which runs the country with the spirit of September 12th, aims to weaken union organisation with this bill. Again, with this bill, İSKUR is trying to be rendered dysfunctional by overcoming its responsibilities over time and emptying the social principle of the state. Congressmans, with this system, the problem of farm workers and domestic workers cannot be solved, as alleged. The way to resolve problems is to register employment in this sector, more effective work by the Ministry of Employment and Employment. Again, as claimed by this bill, the woman cannot participate in her work life, on the contrary, she is prevented; even when she is working, she is asked to be imprisoned in the house. A woman's working life must be found and sought for ways to ensure stronger and more effective participation in social life, especially in our working women's needs for day care as soon as possible. This bill transforms the working life into an environment of uncertainty and chaos, which is pushed into total uncertainty about the work, the workplace, the employer, the working conditions, the salary, how long it will work. Congressmans, labor is the highest value. Work is part of the person's personality and dignity. Therefore, we find neither legal nor moralism in this bill that brings labor to the market, allows man and his labor to be converted into a meta and sold. We also reject this bill that will institutionalize the uncleal system, which has been concentrated in your working life during your time. Congressmans, I would like to remind the AKP people that the first hiring practice was seen in Nazi Germany. We remind you of their fate. I salute the General Assembly, my friends.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0437par0466	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. III. Exposure
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0438par0469	We'll have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0437par0470	Yes, there is a request for a roll call. I'll get this request first, then I'll do the roll call. Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Toğrul, Mr. Acar Başaran, Mr. Yiğitalp, Mr. Irgat, Mr. Çelik Özkan, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Gülser Yıldırım, Mr. Zeydan, Mr. Öcalan, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Dora, Mr. Geveri, Mr. Doğan. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to the third joke of Article 1904 of Law No. 4904, which is envisioned to be replaced by Article 9. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor (Heromarash) and his friends If the use of this Law is determined, the first clause of Article 20 of this Law (k) will be warned for the first time in writing, and it will be repealed again. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0439par0487	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0437par0488	Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu, Hatay MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0440par0491	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the motion on Article 9 of Law Bill 170. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the 9th article mentions the rights and obligations of private employment offices. In the flexible work and private employment departments system, what workers will lose in general, I will briefly talk about them. 1) The legalisation of hiring workers with this bill will be the main concern of the laborer's trade. The unemployment phenomenon will be exploited, and the widespread and intensive labour brokership will begin. 2) The concept of the workplace will become unclear. By employing hired workers, the concept of a workplace will be eliminated. The main unit is the workplace in determining the union's authority and implementing the collective contract of employment. The worker receives severance and a notice compensation, overpaid work fees, yearly sabbatical rights within the framework of the concept of a workplace. With the application of hired workers, the concept of the workplace will be obscured, even eliminated. 3) As a result of hiring workers and eliminating the concept of a workplace, social security rights will also be eliminated. The hired employee will be insured through the employment office that employs him, while the employee's illegal and unregistered work will be easier. The uninsured work, which is currently unresolved by the bilateral relationship between employees and employers, will therefore be even more difficult to solve if the private employment office participates in the process. Because of the frequently changed employer, it is almost impossible for the state to conduct inspections with its workplace. Again, the uncertainty of the worker's workplace will prevent measures of health and safety from being taken. Since the worker will work every day, every week or month at different workplaces, he will be threatened by different occupational accidents and occupational diseases, his job site for hire and occupational illness will have no responsibility and the health and safety of the worker will be compromised. Because when work changes for a day, a week, a month's work, there will be no job health and safety training. 5: The main problem for the worker who is imprisoned in private employment offices will be the removal of his right to job security. The relationship between the hired employee and the private employment office is unclear. In Article 18 of the Employment Law, the right to the workers' rights of employment is limited. According to this, the number of employees at work must be 30 and more and the employee must receive at least six months of severance. Workers are employees of real or corporate individuals who normally own businesses, and workers and employers communicate without means of communication. With private employment agencies, this will all go away. He will not be able to benefit from union rights and freedoms because the workforce and workforce are constantly changing. In our country, unionism and the right to a collective contract depend on the worker's workplace and the business. There will be differences between a temporary employee's private employment office and the workplace where he works, which will prevent the worker from becoming a member of the union. As the National Movement Party, I say we will not allow the rights of the worker to be wasted, we will say no to this bill and we will not accept this bill, and I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit10spe0441par0500	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The commission has a request for a reduction. Here you go, Mr. President. Mr. President, we have a technical request to correct the matter. We would like to see the bill changed in the form of remaining concealed at the end of the second joke of Article 19 of Law 4904, which is part of Article 9 of the framework 9 of the bill, so there will be no discrepancy. Thank you, Mr. President. On the basis of the commission's review, I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 9th article has been accepted. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0441par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th Session of the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're back to the talks of Bill 170. The commission is in place. The government is in place. There are three proposals on the 10th article, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The first joke of Article 4904 (a) of Article No. 4904 (i.e. the term "yerkbin" (i.e. the term "yerkbin"), "sekkbin" (i.e., "kökbin"), "seksenbin" (i.e., "onbin"), "seksenbin" (i.e., i.e., "b., "i.g., "a."), "bin" (i.g. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a.," i. a.g. a.g. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a.. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a.. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. "b. a. a. a. a. a. a. "b. a." (a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. "s" (a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a." (a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. Kamil Aydın mind Openba Fahrettin Oğuz Tor İsmail Faruk Aksu Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Ruhi Ersoy Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to file the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 10 of the 10th Amendment be removed from the text of the Law under the Law on Business and Development of Turkey. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Şenal Sarıhan Ali Yiğit Tur Yıldız Bicer Çetin Arık Ünal Demirtaş The signatures of the other motion are: Çağlar Demirel Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Diriyet Taşdemir Nursel Aydoğan Sibel Yiğitalp Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the Commission participate in the same motions? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0442par0033	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0441par0034	The first speaker on two proposals of the same nature was Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı, Bitlis MP. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0443par0037	Mr. President, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party, I have taken a pledge on Article 10 of the Law Bill 170. I salute everyone. The government, which is expected to address the unemployment issue, is expected to provide a bill that in the opposite way violates the employee's rights and law. Together with this bill, we see another example of AKP's sacrifice to capital along with neoliberal policies of the labour and sweat of state understanding. In his statement yesterday, the Minister of Labour and Social Security said that students abroad used these offices to make pocket allowances, and he conflicted with himself. In our case, he's made it the same with the additional income he sees as a solution to unemployment, the family support in this country. The situation abroad: those who work in the position of hired workers in Germany receive 30 per cent and 40 per cent less in Canada, according to their counterparts. There's not a lot of unionisation rates. The union rate of hired workers in France is less than 1%, 1.7% in Italy; 7 per cent in the Netherlands; 5 per cent in Luxembourg. With private employment offices, a perception is also being created that unemployment will be reduced. From 2004 to 2014, there was no progress when the European Union looked at unemployment data. The unemployment rate, 9.3% in the European Union in 2004, rose to 10.2 per cent in 2014, 6.2 per cent in the United States, 6.2 per cent in the United Kingdom, and 6.2 per cent in the UK. When you look at example abroad, there is a serious monopoly in the hired labor sector. Although there are nearly 260,000 private employment offices around the world, 45 per cent of the market is owned by Adecco, Randstad, Manpower. The basic function of private employment offices is to provide easy labor opportunities and to weaken the principle of labour law's protection of the worker, instead, to make it essential to protecting the business and the business. This practice means that workers and workers will be taken away from their earnings by years of struggle. One of the most important rights of a worker is the right to organize and strike. However, the government has also taken from the worker's hand the right to severance, collective agreements, occupational security, annual leave, compensation, and many rights in the interest of capital. With the already functioning subcontractor system, many workers are employed under unsecured, flexible, bad, and unhealthy conditions. With no job guarantees and the hands of workers living in fear of being laid off at any moment, now, with this practice, they are trying to eliminate their limited rights. The system, which has been known as the chief of staff, the sergeant, the traders, and has been exploiting mines and agricultural workers for many years, has been legalized by this bill. The worker will be completely alienated from the workplace where he works in terms of rights and law. All mechanisms will be brought into action against the worker in order to protect the capital owner under any circumstances, to free him of all responsibility and obligations. In Turkey, where 17,000 workers and 586 workers have been killed in the past four years, strengthening the bosses still reflects the value of power to workers and workers. Dear MPs, we, the People's Democratic Party, will always be against those who try to sacrifice the sweat of workers and workers to capital with capitalist approaches. As a final statement, I salute all of you to play with the poor's bread, the very essence of this arrangement that you're trying to stamp and make public.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0444par0045	Thank you, Mr. Bagpipe. The second speaker of the same proposals is Burcu Koksal, MP of Afyonkarahisar. Here you go, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0445par0049	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 10th Amendment to the Employment Act and the Turkish Employment Institution Act. Today is the 6th of May; the Sea Gezmiş, Hüseyin İnan, the anniversary of the death of Yusuf Aslan. Greetings to my lion-hearted comrades, who believed in the Sea, who had the honor of giving themselves to Turkey's independence when they were 24 years old.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0446par0051	Why did the CHP vote? CHP hung him.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0445par0052	The land is the land of those who go to the gallows, not to those who sell it to the parcels. Never forget that.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0446par0054	The People of the CHP had him hanged, the People of the CHP.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0445par0055	The fact that private employment offices, which we call modern slavery, hire workers, turn workers into a means of profit, earn money on the labor of the worker, and the workers are not getting the wages they deserve, and AKP subcontractors add wealth to their labourers' wealth over their labourers; more corruption in the business market. Article 10 of the 10th article stipulates punishments to prevent practices if private employment offices act against the laws set out in this law. Why are these just financial punishments? Why were fines issued in lower amounts of fines than should be taken when effective sanctions should be applied? Why is such a low amount of fines foreseen? This is one of the flaws in the bill. The job guarantee, along with the workmanship, will be removed, the severance and tip will be removed, and the worker's right to return to work will be removed. The illegal, unsecured, flexible way of working will become a rule. Employers' layoff costs will be reduced, and your work will be done, so to speak, to the workers. The rights to pension, annual leave and health care will be eliminated. Rental workers will work at a much lower rate than those of the workers who do the same job. As a result, private employment offices are slave markets. A temporary business relationship with private employment agencies is human trafficking. Human trafficking is one of the greatest crimes of humanity in history. Because of this bill that will legalize human trafficking, you AKP people are going to give us a demonstration of subcontractorial mercy. (HPP clapping in rows) Every day in my beautiful homeland, with news of martyrdom coming in, bombs exploding in cities, while people are worried about their lives, you try to pass this bill like you're smuggling out of a fire, despite the fears of unions, workers and opposition. With this bill, you will legitimize and promote labor markets. Since hired workers will not be considered employees of the workplace, they will not be able to benefit from the collective contract of employment at work. Look, if the subcontractors didn't get paid, we couldn't collect from the subcontractor company most of the time because we couldn't find any assets registered to the subcontractor company. The Supreme Court's decision allowed public contractors to collect their wages from the public agency where they worked, but we were able to collect it later.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0447par0060	You were against the subcontractor, you were criticizing him until yesterday.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0445par0061	Now, the hired workers will receive their wages only from private employment offices. Is that right or justice? There is a problem with not being able to collect the wages of hired workers. Private employment offices are responsible for paying the hire worker's salary, and there is no other authority from these private employment offices that they can go to, to collect if they can't get paid.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0448par0062	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0445par0063	History will never forgive the AKP government of you who turned this country into a subcontractor republic and now seek to legitimize slavery.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0449par0065	Slavery is in CHP mentality, not in AK PARTY, but in CHP mentality...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0450par0066	Thank you, Mr. Rootsal. I will submit two motions of the same nature to your votes.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0451par0070	Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0450par0071	There's a roll call. I'll do the roll call. Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Toğrul, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Başaran, Mr. Irgat, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Yiğitalp, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan, Mr. Çelik Özkan, Mr. Yiltekli, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Ocalan, Mr. Dora, Mr. Geveri, Mr. Geveri, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Zeydan. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 1st joke (a) of Article 4904 (a) of Article No. 4904 (a) under which the law shall be changed in accordance with the 170 rows of the Article of Business and the Law of Turkey shall be changed in accordance with the 10th Amendment of the Law shall be changed in accordance with the Law on the Employment Institution of Turkey. (i.e. the term of the law shall be replaced in "understanding") and "understanding" (e.g., i.g. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a.. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a.. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. "b" (a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a." (a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. i. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a." (a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a.. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a Fahrettin Oğuz Tor (Heromarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0452par0087	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0450par0088	Mehmet Parsak, MP of Afyonkarahisar, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Parsak.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0453par0090	I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group regarding the proposal we have made under Article 10 of the St. Turkish nation, respected MPs; Business Law 170; and the Amendment to the Turkish Business Institution Act. On this occasion, I salute the Veterans' House. The 10th amendment to Article 4904 of the Turkish Business Institution Act is being replaced by Article 4904, issues concerning intermediaries to find jobs and workers without permission, persons who seek employment without permission, those who receive wages from job seekers, those who make invalid agreements, those who seek unauthorized intermediaries, those who want to move workers abroad without permission, and those who in various ways are being subjected to administrative fines. First, it must be noted that those who exploit the labor of the Turkish nation and the Turkish worker, those who deal in hope, and those who deceive our people in the bread case must be punished more severely. The fact that private employment offices, which will be granted temporary employment, are essentially commercial institutions founded for profit, is hardly a deterrent of the implementation of punishments, which can be considered a snack money for a commercial institution such as 500 and 1,000 Turkish liras. With this bill, the decision must first be made whether the workers are seeking protection or the companies holding the money and power. Although North America and Europe are centralized, unemployment has increased rapidly due to the economic crisis of 1929, which has had devastating impacts on the rest of the world, and the exploitation and exploitation of workers have advanced in parallel with this situation. A number of organizations that have emerged under the name "Special Employment Office" have defrauded and exploited poor and unemployed people. Due to these dire events, the contract was adopted in 1933 to close Offices of Paid Employment 34 in order to prevent private companies from working and hiring in Turkey. In this contract, public monopoly was brought to work, employment offices were first classified in different status, and after a three-year transition period, the employment offices were decided to be closed for profit. Of course, with the end of the Depression in 1929, new contracts have been signed and new practices have been made, but this event in the history of the world is remarkable for our country to set an example of this new practice. The administrative fines set in Article 10 of the Bill of Law must be questioned how realistic it is to prevent this historic exploitation from happening in today and in our country. It's a pity to think that even a government who has made promises and has made political ads and is trying to get subcontractors to agree to a three-year contract, that even the officer should not have a job guarantee, would prevent such situations from happening. According to Turkish statistical institution data, it is also not realistic to think that a working person's hunger limit as of March 2016 is 1,737 euros, the poverty limit is 2.253 euros, and the minimum income limit of a family of 4 is 4.588 euros, while the government, which employs its worker under the poverty line, will prevent such situations from happening. Of course, he said, "I'll take the law in the House, I'll take care of my business. The officer and the worker will take care of themselves. Honourable lawmakers must take the government's hat on what it has done or really what it wants to do in terms of its employee rights and wages and seriously think about it, and prove to the Turkish nation that its pre-election promises are not fairy tales. As I end my words with these thoughts, I demand that our amendment motion be accepted, and I salute you once again.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0454par0099	Thank you, Mr. Parsak. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 10 has been accepted. There are three motions on the 11th article. I'm going to read these proposals of the same nature, and I'm going to process them together, and I'm going to make a separate commitment to those who have motions, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of Article 11 of the Law shall be removed from its text. With all due respect. Jacob Akkaya Musa Pine Ali Yigit Tur Yıldız Bicer Cetin Arık Mustafa Ali Balbay I'm reading the motion holders of the other motion of the same nature: Kamil Aydın mind Openba Fahrettin Oğuz Tor İsmail Faruk Aksu Ruhi Ersoy Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Çağlar Demirel Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Sibel Yiğitalp Does the Commission participate in the same motions? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0455par0128	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0454par0129	I'll give my word to the lawmakers who have requested the motions. The first speaker is Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir, İstanbul MP. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0456par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I would like to remember three revolutionaries fighting for the brotherhood of an independent Turkey and of the people, Deniz Gezmis, Yusuf Aslan and Hussein, who were their lawyers, and who were lost five years ago today, saying, "What honorable people were in this country?"
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0457par0135	By whose votes?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0456par0136	He wasn't hanged by my vote, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0457par0137	Can you explain whose votes he was hung by?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0456par0138	I mean, it probably takes a lot of hostility to actually throw that word at us.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0457par0139	By whose votes? I'm curious. I wasn't born then.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0456par0140	Today we're actually having two blows -- one, a Prime Minister being replaced by a mark and an intervention in parliamentary democracy. The other is a coup against the rights of the workers, the workers, with the bill that we're currently negotiating. I'm really surprised at the way this Parliament works, dear MPs. I haven't lost the feeling of surprise yet, and I hope I won't lose it for the rest of my life. Because the bills that concern the lives of thousands of people and the commissions are being debated in a democratic environment without matureness are being spent here in bags and in a state of panic, no empathy is being established. Because no one's a worker, and because it's not hard for any of us to give $230 a month, for example, to workers who work even at the bottom of our noses in the House. We're not surprised because every day the Prime Minister gets replaced. I'm afraid it's not today's issue when a person who runs law, execution, judgment, Prime Minister, minister, president in the same body is so involved in Parliament. There is a war in the church, and ISIS has been bombing for fifty days; and not a single minister comes and makes a statement. Let's not be surprised, you want us not to question it. The reason for this bill is that the labour market is solid. It's actually the workers' rights to fight for years. These are severance pay, union and social rights, and you really want to get rid of them. The obvious expression is cheap labor. Here's what you call the National Employment Strategy. It's a cheap employment strategy. Thank God we haven't lost our sense of shame and surprise. That's why this bill embarrasses us and surprises us. Therefore, the law, not the workers, but good luck to you, lawmakers. You can vote with a smile. We've reached the final item. We say no to the bill that eliminates job security, employment security, social security, and union rights, condemns women to work at home, all the valuable workers and all the living workers we've lost in the job murders so far. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0458par0147	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0459par0148	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0458par0149	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0459par0150	I don't answer, I just point to the police.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0458par0151	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0460par0152	Are these sentences banned, Mr. President? We don't know, so he's out of the literature? We find it difficult to understand Mr. Bostanci. Are these the sentences from the literature?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0458par0153	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. I don't think there's a speaker in the second motion. The speaker has withdrawn.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0461par0155	Reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0458par0156	I'm reading the reason: Under Article 3 of the Law on the Law and the Order of Orders and the History of Merit, the law shall be put into effect at the end of the 45th day, which follows its publication in the Official Gazette, in accordance with Article 3 of the Law. The gain of time to implement this law, which will have significant and potentially negative effects on working life, is seen as useful in preparation for the impact of regulations. Mustafa Ali Balbay, MP of İzmir speaking on the other motion. Here you go, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0462par0161	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. Forty-four years ago today and at this time, Sea Travel and his friends were taken to the gallows. I honor them with respect. Friends, execution is the government's plan to kill people, so it's not a punishment, it's a crime. Three were executed because three were executed by the Menderes. Three executions in the 1960s were executed in the 1970s for three acts of vengeance. In that sense, I condemn all the executions in our history, and I wish it would never happen again. Congressmans, the bill we're currently negotiating will make the bosses more organized than the employees. The current picture is already in this frame. Unfortunately, as part of the global departure, you will implement this law brutally and in Turkey... Mr. Minister of Labour and Social Security called a dialogue environment on May 1st, yes, it is positive, but with this bill, I would like to change the name of Mr. Minister of Labour and Social Security as Minister of Social Tension and Social Tension.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0463par0166	Shame on you! It looks good on you!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0464par0167	Oh, no. We all celebrated May Day together.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0462par0168	Because this bill, lawmakers, will eliminate the peace of work, the peace of business.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0463par0169	For the first time in peace, May 1st, for the first time...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0462par0170	Because a worker needs a place of residence where he works. That's what happened in the past in the old institutions. My middle school, high school, went to Nazilli. In the Sumerbank printing factory, those workers owned the factory, where their effort to improve quality was also due to their commitment to the workplace. Our friends said yes, but even for rent, it's a very optimistic expression, lawmakers. I don't know where he'll work, I don't know when he'll work. How much do these people feel like they belong in that place of work? And I hope I'm wrong, a lot of the kind of murders we're going through right now could soon be added to the workplace murders. Come, carry out this bill as a responsibility to the Business Agency, the state. Members of the law, after it is clear to me that the right to speak will come to me in this article, I will speak to you very briefly about a mine worker, whose son died in the mine, Durmis Sidal. After his son's death, he looks at the working conditions in the mine and is intimidated by what he learns. He was a miner years ago, and 25 years ago, he worked on better business conditions than his son, who died in that mine today. Unfortunately, these worsening working conditions will only get worse with such laws. Congressmans, since you are the ruling party's MPs, you may not be suffering much from unemployment. Every 10 phones I get on my cell phone, 6... it's on the job. There are 25,000 applications in human resources at İzmir Metropolitan Municipality, and I believe they said there are about 15,000 applications in Çankaya. Unemployment is such a painful thing. People say, "Just a little guarantee." They say, "Just an insurance." But let's work with this law wherever it is, no matter where it is. They'll have to say, "No matter where it is, let's work." And, of course, when I look at the details, it's a painting that doesn't seem to be the boss, it's not the owner; in a sense, the sacrifice, yes, it seems to have been shared equally. The body will be transferred to the employee, to the employer, and to those who established these private work offices. That's the example of the world. And in the world, members of lawmakers get 85 percent of all the products produced today, rich countries, 15 percent poor countries. In this sense, there's no globalization, there's no globalization in the sphere. The most important sign of this is the unlimited freedom of capital, but the captivity of labor, the labor of labor, the struggle to go to the West to become slaves. But, unfortunately, those who come to private employment offices with this law will have to work wherever and under any circumstances, which I'm saying will result in an increase in workplace murders. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0465par0178	Thank you, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0466par0179	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0465par0180	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0466par0181	In the beginning of his speech, Mr. Balbay compared the number 3-3 with Menderes, and his friends, who were hanged by the 1960 coupkers, to the Sea Gezmis and his friends, who were hanged by the March 12 coupkers, and claimed that they were hanged in return for the Menderes. In the same context as the 1960 coupkers and the Seawalkers, I leave this narrative to the public's discretion.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0465par0183	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0467par0184	I want a say in this.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0465par0185	Mr. Balbay...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0467par0186	Sir, speaking of my name...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0468par0187	He wouldn't have been hanged if it weren't for CHP people.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0467par0188	I mean, I want to explain what I said.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0469par0189	No, I don't...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0467par0190	But...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0469par0191	He just made an assessment, left it to me. A tease...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0467par0192	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0470par0193	He left it to the public.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0469par0194	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0467par0195	In the ranks of this Parliament -- unfortunately, this is our reality -- the vote was used -- three hundred and three.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0471par0196	He must have used 35 CHPs, if I remember correctly.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0467par0197	Mr. Bostanci, I don't know where he was then, but...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0472par0198	Our people know who voted, citizens know who voted.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0467par0199	...and when he looks at it, he'll see that it's been yelled 3/3/3. I'm sorry if there's even been any negatives in general. I've passed this on in our history. I've passed it on with my evaluation and I haven't separated anyone, for all executions.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0473par0201	He voted yes to the execution of Deniz Gezmiş.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0474par0202	How many CHP people voted, how many CHPs? Mr. Balbay, how many CHP members voted to be executed?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0473par0203	He was executed by CHP's votes by Deniz Gezmiş, CHP's votes.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0475par0204	Yes, yes, just a moment, Mr. Lawmakers. Thank you, Mr. Balbay. It's in the transcripts. III. Exposure
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0476par0208	Request roll call.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0475par0209	There is a request for a roll call before putting the same motions to a vote. Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Tuğrul, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Yiğitalp, Mr. Acar Başaran, Mr. Irgat, Mr. Steel Özkan, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Gülser Yıldırım, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Ocalan, Mr. Dora, Mr. Geveri, Mr. Geveri, Mr. Zeydan. Initiating roll call, two minutes. [[The electronic device started the inspection.]] Now, so, members of lawmakers, it seems to be a process. They won't change the seats of lawmakers who want roll call groups, and the Court won't have any trouble identifying those names. [[Investigation continued with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 11th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 12th article, two of which are the same property. The first two motions I'm going to make are the same, I'm going to read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 12 of the Law shall be changed in the following manner. With all due respect. Yakup Akkaya Ünal Demirtaş Musa Çam Cetin Arık Tur Star Biçer Ali Yiğit The Minister of Labor and Social Security shall carry out these laws. The signatures of the other motion are: Kamil Aydın mind Openba Fahrettin Oğuz Tor İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Ruhi Ersoy Now, I'm going to make the motion that I'm going to read the most contrary to the clause, and then I'm going to process it after it's read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the 12th amendment of the Common Law Bill, number 170, be changed in the following way. Çağlar Demirel Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Diriyet Taşdemir These laws are carried out by the Minister of Labor and Social Security and the Minister of Health. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0477par0248	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0475par0249	It's Diyet Taşdemir, Ağrı MP, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Stonedemir.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0478par0252	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. On May 6, 1972, forty-four years ago, Deniz Gezmiş, Hüseyin İnan and Yusuf Aslan were executed. Unfortunately, their execution was confirmed by those who stood on this stand in this House, and their hands were raised for their execution. The seas cried out the brotherhood of the people on the table of execution, and were immortalized by resistance to fascism and labour exploitation and exploitation. And I honor them here once again. [[Applause from HDP rows]] The arrangements that left workers vulnerable to both the market and the Ministry of Labor are being carried out by opportunism in the dust cloud of the war. If the purpose of these arrangements, such as practical flexibility, was to secure the laborer's employment, such as security flexibility, there would have been arrangements to remove the loss of income from flexible employment, the lack of employment, the lack of social security, guaranteeing the worker's minimum income and employment security; measures for employees who worked as loan sharks who couldn't get jobs would have been developed; the cases they opened would not have received government allowance. There are countless regulations in Turkey that protect capital and public property, and there is not a single regulation that guarantees that workers will receive it. Here are the conditions for the propaganda to increase employment. Don't excuse the workers, there are already models in the Business Act that allow them to work flexiblely for the private sector. But you're bringing this arrangement because the employer wants a temporary relationship, not a part-time one. Unfortunately, the fate of workers in Turkey rests at the mercy of a Labour Minister, trying to remind him of the rightness of losses to severance pay, a former employer. Therefore, during the time of lynchings against our party, the government, which has not taken a single step towards non-payment for being Kurds, who have been subjected to mass violence, says it has brought a temporary business relationship as support for the employer whose production was delayed due to terrorism. In this sense, this arrangement will become a threat in Kurdish cities, where unemployment is much higher, to bring people into business without guarantee. The government, which seeks to turn our people into beggars with help, will give charity to the people in the interim working relationship. Because Turkey's widespread unemployment is being used by the government as a threat to the employment of unemployed people. That's why there's been a constant emphasis on increased female employment in the presentation of recent bills to the public. In a part-time study arrangement, which the government viewed as a way to increase fertility, the government took the initiative to replace those who left with military and parental permission only, and now it's spreading. As a result, we're going to talk about women who lost their jobs to work part-time and temporary workers who will take their place in an unsecured status. You want to employ women? Then increase care services by diversifying them. The main obstacle to women's employment in Turkey is the absence of care services. But the number of public day care is dropping. Most of the municipalities have mothers' education, but unfortunately they don't have day care. Despite maintenance obligations, women who want to participate in employment work in less secure jobs, low status, and mostly off the books. However, in reducing the informality, he is not encouraged to work directly toward women. Because it's about taking on hundreds of thousands of employers who are growing up on the basis of cheap women's labor. High unemployment pressure on women's employment will therefore make temporary work less of a choice and more of an obligation, and pension, an important guarantee for women due to the cut-off work, will be a dream. Stop using women's employment threats to discipline the labour market, stop using employment opportunities as election or war bribes, and stop offering them as alms in the business life that you have guaranteed. A safe, honorable work is the right of all citizens.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0479par0261	Thank you, Mr. Stonedemir. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I'm reading other proposals of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 12 of the Law shall be changed in the following manner. With all due respect. Jacob Akkaya (Istanbul) and his friends ▪ Article 12 - The Minister of Labor and Social Security conducts these laws. Open her Mind (Sachariah) and her friends Does the commission agree with the motions? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0480par0274	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0479par0275	I'll make a promise to the MPs who want to talk about the motions. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, Alderman of Kahramanmarash. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0481par0279	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have arrived at the final clause of Bill 170. I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. I hereby salute your high council. Of course, flexible work is an open subject to any kind of doubt; our wish is that it does not serve to break the peace of work. I think the practice should be done meticulously. I think it's better to avoid unregistered employment with more radical measures than flexible work. From this sentence, off-the-book employment, I'd call it unregistered employment. Of course, the state's huge bonus and non-responsive employment, which causes a huge loss of income, has led to many personal and social problems, including the fact that people do not receive health care, that they do not retire, that they have to work at a second job because they have a low pension, that they have negative impact on unemployment, and that it also encourages social security, which leads to unregistered competition, which leads to unfair competition in case of a business accident. There are examples of poor, poor people who can't be tied up for three days, five days, or even a month. On the other side, there are poor people who haven't been insured for years. There is no doubt that their spiritual responsibility lies with our authorities. Therefore, the government must, in its own way, go towards reducing off-the-book employment. The higher bonuses, the greater number of small and medium-sized businesses, the higher population growth, the lower levels of migration, education, pensions, the incentive for pensioners to work off the books in their second job, and the increase in foreign illegal labor force is off the books. Our humble suggestions for preventing off-the-book employment are: First, a full political will must be established and the maximum effort to record this section must be made and the boldest decisions must be made. The insurance adjuster must be made to report himself to the agency. Information campaigns to encourage people to participate in the registered economy and to discuss the losses of the informal economy should be organised and should be given training on the subject. Risky sectors must be established in boosting registered employment, and registration policies in line with the property of sectors must be followed. Women need to increase employment rates in regular paid jobs. Projects to abolish child labor must be developed. The public institution and its institutions and the Social Security Institution must be cross-checked with other data using a joint database. Financial and legal obligations on employers must be reduced. Finally, steps by the government to promote institutionalisation in business should be taken quickly. The radical measure is the prevention of off-the-books. I say flexible work or such measures will not contribute to employment, and I salute the high council. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0482par0286	Thank you, Mr. Tor. The other speaker, Yakup Akkaya, is an Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Akkaya.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0483par0290	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, members of parliament, the bill came to the Commission on February 8th, our Commission met on February 16th - 12th, speaking on the final clause -- transferred to the lower commission on February 23rd, passed through the Commission on February 24th as 12th. First of all, I want to thank all of our friends, especially the Commissioner, who worked on this Commission work, for their contribution. I'm going to have a system here, and the President of the Plan and Budget Commission is here. After November 1st, law proposals involving the Commission, our Commission for Labor, Health, Family and Social Affairs Commission came to Plan and Budget Commission within the bag of laws concerned with the 3 ministries. When we ask Mr. Plan and Budget President, we need to talk about this in our Commission. Why are we talking right here, seeing each other?" When we said, he knew how to get away with it, Mayor, I swear it wasn't my fault. We wrote to your Commission on this matter. And they said, "There is no need to see us on this commission." They came to us, and they said, "We are meeting for it." Mr. President, for him...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0484par0294	Well, that's not exactly what happened.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0483par0295	So, there was a talk like that, and we saw here that when we listened to the work of the commissions, or the work of the residency commissions, we could all find the opportunity to learn things there that we didn't know about. I hope that in the next process, work on this in Congress will be discussed by the fellowship commissions, and then it will go to the Plan Budget Commission. Of course, we started in the 5th of May, and now, the 6th of May, we continue. And here we have the Department of Labor bureaucrats to thank, and they've worked with us on commissions for days. We thank our stenographer friends -- they're here with us until this time of night -- to the cavas, to the House security workers, to all the workers who work outside, backstage and restaurants again. But while we're discussing the problems of working life here, we think that our security personnel, especially members of Parliament, are one of the most important tasks that we have to do under the roof of this House, including the pay injustices between our ecos, our stenographers, our friends who work in restaurants and other services. So we shouldn't ignore the rights of our colleagues, of our workers, who we work with while we sit down with employers and trade unions to deal with their problems in working life. For him, I believe this House will take care of it. Now, in his speech -- to remind and correct this -- Mr. Secretary mentioned a law on subcontractors in 2014. He didn't specify the date of the law, but it was released in 2014, and as the law on the rights of the contractor and the AKP government, we solved those problems of the subcontractor, so we got them the right to receive severance. It's false information, it's not true.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0485par0300	That's right, that's right!
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0483par0301	Because those subcontractors took it with the law, took it with the law. When we looked at the legal situation of this road worker, the legal achievements, he actually brought it as a political runt, the AKP, and he collected them in Arena, and made it seem as if the AKP was bringing the right to those workers here by law.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0486par0302	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0483par0303	It's not true; it's lawful as their mother's white milk, and whether you want it or not, if there's a trial in this country, if the Supreme Court approved it, because then there were thousands of cases, and since it was known that these cases would win this right, the AKP has always managed to translate it with the cunning of its own, and I congratulate you for that, too. But we can tell you that's not the truth. Yeah, we've been against that law all along. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Because there's İSKUR, we thought it would be through ISKUR, so we defended it. This bill has many unconstitutional clauses, and I say once again in your presence that we will take it to the Constitutional Court tomorrow when it becomes law. I thank you all very much, and I give you my respect and love, thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0487par0309	Thank you, Mr. Akkaya. Mr. Akkaya, you've counted everyone, you haven't counted the technical staff -- these sound systems, your speech, your microphone -- here's the President of the Laws Decisions.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0483par0311	Well, if there's any missing...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0487par0312	I'm sure you wanted to count everyone.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0483par0313	Mr. President, since I know your sensibilities, I thought you would.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0487par0314	Of course, I'm sure you wanted to count them all, but sometimes when you count them, that happens. I just... Let's not forget the photographers and the press. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 12th article is accepted. Members of parliament, the talks of the bill have been completed, along with the votes of the clauses in the second chapter. However, before the vote of the entire bill, I will make a pledge to the two members of parliament who have demanded to express the color of the game in accordance with Article 86 of the Civil Code. Mr. Mehmet İlker Çiçil of Kahramanmarash. Here you go, Mr. Çimil.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0488par0322	Mr. President, my esteemed lawmakers, I have received a pledge in favor of the Business Act and the Law on the Amendment to Turkey's Employment Institution Act. I'm not going to use the whole time, just in a few ways... [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yes, the other members of the group, who had spoken before me, were particularly critical. However, at the Commission meeting, we received the opinion of both themselves and other NGOs and trade unions, created a subcommittee, called in the less relevant NGOs and unions, and, according to their opinion, we also had additional proposals, and, on this occasion, a beautiful bill was formed and brought to your attention. And on this occasion, I would like to thank our Minister, our precious bureaucrats, our members of the Commission, and all those who have done all the work -- and I mean everyone -- to remember no one -- and I wish that our bill would be a blessing for our country. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, I salute you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0489par0329	Thank you, Mr. Çimil. Let's not forget the tea people in the lobby and the gatekeepers and the restaurant staff, too, folks. Against him, Mr. Musa Çam, MP of İzmir. Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0490par0334	Mr. President, honorable members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, there have been all talks on the Business Law and on the general draft of the Turkish Business Institution Act, and I have been promised to show my vote color according to 86.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0491par0335	I can tell by your tie.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0490par0336	You're right, you're right, you're right, you're right, you're right. Now, you're about to lift your finger for the execution of the most vulnerable, weak millions of people in this country, but before I raise my finger, I'd like to offer something once again to your appreciation. Even in the current business relationship, I would like to point out to you that it is inevitable to be paid through private employment offices to create new victims. What happens if private employment agencies that don't have any other assets other than their office don't pay for their hires? There's no definite arrangement for that. I'd like to bring to your attention that in the absence of hire workers, they will also have serious problems with health care, as well as with those they are obliged to care for. Another problem for hired workers is not taking advantage of unemployment insurance, but I'd like to put it to your attention. Another problem is severance pay. There is no opening in the bill; it is unlikely that they will be able to take advantage of severance pay, since the contract of employment is similar to a fixed-term business relationship. The biggest danger that awaits hired workers will be union, collective bargaining and non-violence rights. Mr. Secretary will now say that the hired workers have the right to a union on paper, but I'd like to point out to you that it's almost impossible to use that right. What line of work will the hired workers be organized in, the task force of private employment offices, or the business branch they're actually working on? How will the trade unions be organized here if the task force is subject to private employment offices? What number of workers will be based on workplace and business authority? None of this is here in the bill. With whom will the collective contract of employment be signed, the private employment office or the workplace where he works? Since collective agreements will not last less than a year, how will a worker who will be hired for four months benefit from a collective contract? I'd like to bring this to your attention, you'll vote. There's no telling how to use the strike rights. It's possible to add dozens of questions to these questions. Under the current contract of employment, the union of workers in our country is a major problem, and the union of hired workers and the use of collective contracts are virtually dreamy. Rental labor is a worse practice than subcontractors, because the real employer's obligation is unfortunately free. In the sub-employee sub-contractor relationship, the real employer is responsible for the sub-employee's employment with the sub-employee's obligations due to the law, the contract of employment, or the collective contract of employment, which the sub-employee is part of. Rental labor is the lowest in working life. Last words: In 1946, Law 4837 was established by the Employment and Labor Foundation. This 70-year-old institution became Turkey's Business Institution in 2003 with Law 4904. With this arrangement, this employment and employment institution, which we've all been through on one occasion, or the Turkish Business Agency, will be completely forgotten at some point, and the special employment offices will now go into this slavery order. It's your decision, your choice, your vote, my friends. But here we are making a note of history at this time of night. Put your hand on your conscience. We ask that your children, grandchildren, and relatives who will come after you not be sold from the labor market in this country. According to 86, my dear friend Mahmoud Tanal had made a promise, but the last word was worthy of a worker. I thank him here. All of his employees, upstairs, downstairs, at the door, outside, in the kitchen, everywhere, I salute all of our working brothers on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, and I say we will vote red on this bill, and I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0492par0349	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Mr. Akçay, here, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0493par0353	Thank you, Mr. President. And I would like to point out that as the National Movement Party Group, we will vote against this bill, because, as the general line of this bill often states, these kinds of regulations are expressed as a return to the Middle Ages, so a fear... that there is no guarantee of safe work, and we will vote against it with the idea that it will undermine the rights of employees who work in a general definition of slavery, such as hired labor and remote labor, and that workers themselves will be made a gain, a commodity, and that the unemployed will also be exploited. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0494par0356	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0495par0359	Thank you, Mr. President. So, on May 6, I would like to begin with the remembrance of the Seas, of the Josephs, of the Husseins. Their demand was the brotherhood of the peoples for democracy and freedom, and I hope there will be no mistakes and mistakes in the future, and it will not be so cruel to condemn the executions or the people. Yes, we've resisted this bill, we'll resist it, and we'll resist it the rest of the time. As the People's Democratic Party, we consider it a bill that determines the approach to workers and workers who have been exploited in harsher conditions for the second time in a country where workers are exploited. Yes, we call it the slave law, we call it the slave law, we call it the laborer, we say the heavier ones, but it has to go down in history, and there's going to be a time when there will be tons of criticism about how this bill was introduced or how this law was put into effect, and we believe that the people of Turkey, the people of Turkey, will give it back to the people of Turkey, and we believe in it, with the power of social opposition, they will return it. I say again that this is indeed a massacre for the people of Turkey, workers and workers. And as the People's Democratic Party, we fought against it. Again, we would like to say once again that we did not accept this bill and that we would vote against it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0496par0364	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0497par0367	Mr. President, thank you. This bill is a bill in the modern world that Turkey needs within the framework of working capital relations and market relations. It's not a perfect law like all laws, but it's a law of possibility. As for the working class issue, the working class has gained rights and freedoms on one side and on the other, but let's also remember and draw the bottom very thickly, workers, especially with the expansion of parliaments and the right to vote, have earned rights and freedoms. To miss the parliamentary side of the job and only highlight the squares is basically to push aside a very important function of politics. On the other hand, there are processes of globalization where the world lives, where we are part of it. One of the most awkward aspects of this process is the localization of labor while providing global circulation of capital, which is an important problem. Thus, by localizing labor in certain areas, there is a global support for what we call profits and gains. One of the things that needs to be fought is to oppose the localization of labor. For a fairer world, we, the EC PARTY, believe that a more just future in this globalized world needs to be established, and that peace is possible. With all due respect.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0498par0373	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. I submit the entire bill to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the bill is accepted and legal. The Minister has a request to give a thank-you speech. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0499par0381	Mr. President, our highly respected deputies, today is May 6th, and we will all say hello to a new dawn, a new morning. First of all, I'd like to say that I believe that the republic was founded on two basics. One of them is intrinsic, or complete independence, and the other one is unconditionally speaking to the nation. The will that we have established today regarding Business Law 4857 and the Law of the Turkish Employment Institution (4904) and this Bill of Law, number 170, is the unrestricted nation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Since January, when this bill first began to work, my conscience rests. In exchange for an understanding of social dialogue mechanisms, especially one of the most important functions of this Ministry of Ministry of Labor and Social Security, which has been forced to work until the end, I would also like to present to our labour unions, all of our employers' unions, and again, to our Parliaments, and to the very valued Commissioner and members of our Commission, both members of the Department of Labor and Social Security, who have formed this a member of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, who have also contributed to the opposition -- each of our strong dialogue mechanisms, and to all of our institutions -- and to our institutions -- and to the extent the extent that this bill has been presented by the way that this bill has been one of the most important function of the Ministry -- I'd like to say that our responsibility is to our Parliament, our responsibility is to our beloved nation, and our group's deputy has just mentioned that not every law is perfect, but especially in order to create a regulation of this bill, our workers, our employers, our political parties are all being tried together. I'd like to express my appreciation here once again. I'd like to say one sentence: I don't know how much history can be judged on the basis of the assessment that Mr. Balbay put in place, for the record and for me to express my conscientious responsibility in the House, but I believe in this and I tell you yesterday that the entire world knows that the power behind the execution of the late Adnan Mendeles. For him, Turkey faces the same problems today, and we are all sons of this country, and we are all in this country responsible for tomorrow, for the power of this country, for the freedom and independence of future generations after us. What we faced yesterday is what we face today. We're all human, we're human, we're surprised. Exalted is Allah, the Most High, the Most High. We're all short, but together, whatever happened to this country yesterday, it's our responsibility to make sure that that doesn't happen to this country tomorrow. So, all of us, with common sense, with good intentions, if there's a lack of these laws tomorrow, that's different, but one thing doesn't change... we're tired of traumas and we're tired of it. Tomorrow, I believe in our country's bright future and our beautiful Turkey in this Parliament that in the coming days we will have very important processes. In one sentence, I would like to express my gratitude to the AK PARTY group, of course to all groups, to all our MPs, to all opposition parties. But today, our President-General has made an extraordinary congressional decision. Imagine a political party, Mr. President Ahmet Davutoglu was our President yesterday, and he was our Prime Minister today, our President and Prime Minister, and from the moment he left, he was our President and Prime Minister until the end of the political history of this party. Our respect, our conversation and our loyalty to him will always be in the same place, but today this party and this group have proved one other thing, and it has expressed once again its loyalty and commitment to the president of today, and it has once again demonstrated what the responsibility of the party spirit, the politics and the nation is. I thank you all very much, very much.
tbmm-2016-05-05sit11spe0500par0390	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, since the Minister has touched on the matter, I'd like to say a few words, if I may. May 27th, March 12th, September 12th, after all these military coups and military intervention into politics, the courts are all in violation of the principle of natural justice, the principle of dissolution of forces. None of the decisions made by such extraordinary courts are fair, not true. And I'm bringing this to your attention. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. At Friday's meeting of the Council of Counsellors 06/05/2016, it was fitting that the General Assembly not meet on Friday 06/05/2016 should be submitted to the General Assembly's approval. Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Peoples' Democratic Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We begin negotiations with the Political Ethics Law Proposal and the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Constitutional Commission Reports. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission will not be found after this, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (May 10th 2016) to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Have a good morning.
