tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 87th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in two minutes' time. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Ankara MP Şenal Sarıhan, who asked for the appointment of Mother's Day. Mr. Sarihan, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've come with flowers. That's nice.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0002par0018	Dear friends, today is a day that has left many important days behind. May 6th was the anniversary of the death of three seedlings.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0001par0019	Mr. Sarihan, I'll restart your time. Congressmans, there's a hum in the General Assembly. We've invited Mr. Sarıhan to the stand and he's going to give a speech on Mother's Day. I'd like you all to listen. Rebooting your time, Mr. Yellowhan, please.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0003par0022	Thank you. Dear friends, there is a poem that I think you all know, the verses of Nazim Hikmet, which says: "The man who makes men of mothers/ The Light has gone before us." / Didn't you have a moment? / Don't kill the mothers, sirs. The clouds must not kill. The words of Nazim Hikmet are always in my favor when they are mentioned, but the circumstances that we are in cause the mothers to weep and slaughter their mothers with their most physical and emotional size. Every soul lost in this violent environment of conflict, discrimination, and hatred disrupting the social structure is breaking a mother's heart. In Soma, every body that is buried under the ground in Ermenek, makes the heart of a mother a tomb. Every year, the loss of thousands of lives that are victims of job killings takes away the life of a mother and the future daughter. Those who have sought each other's refuge in the pursuit of justice after years of unsolved events and forced loss, those whose hopes have come to an end when their lives have ended, are always mothers. When he commits a crime, we often have mothers who are locked up in prisons with their little children, punished once again with their motherhood. Women in the house, in the streets, in the fields, in the school, in the workplaces, psychological, physiological, economic, all kinds of violence, harassment, and rape, where we've eliminated their existence, their means of life. Yes, our women, they're a mother or a mother's daughter. Sadly, when we make Mother's Day a means of capitalism, our love for them and respect for them are of little value. Dear friends, if you could just be a little quiet, you'd actually feel that a woman friend of yours, who's a mother, is talking here, and you'd be able to listen with a little more respect. My words go to all our mothers, my words go to all our women. We are their guardians here who are responsible for creating a world of light. We all have a responsibility. To leave Turkey in peace, we all have a responsibility to make Turkey a land of happy mothers with jobs, vaccines, lives, children. Look, I just presented white carnations to our esteemed Vice President. Why are these white carnations so white that they don't reflect the red carnations we're used to? For the sign of Mother's Day is white carnations. Years ago, our woman friend, who wanted this day to be a memorial day for her mother, handed out 400 white carnations. I'm not handing out 400 white carnations today, but I'd like to remember this day by offering it to our female friends from each group. My goal is this: Here we women can all be open to all of us if we can get ahead of ourselves, and if we can take care of our country by the responsibility of our friends who respect women, the working class of our country, the public workers, the women of our country, the young people of our country for their benefit, all of us together, all of us together, to love this great homeland, to fight for it, to hope that if we can get ahead of it, all of us will be open to it, and that in the days we live in these days, it will be possible for both our parties and for peace in our homeland, and that the clouds will no longer kill men from the clouds. Thank you all, my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0004par0029	Thank you, Mr. Sarihan. Members of parliament, the second non-responsive statement belongs to Erzurum MP Mustafa Ilıcalı, who wants to speak on behalf of International Traffic Safety Week. Your time is five minutes. Here you are, Mr. Ilıcalı.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0005par0035	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'd like to share with you some information about our bleeding wound after this beautiful subject and the beautiful gesture of our deputy. Before that, I'm celebrating this beautiful day for all mothers. I lost my mother in a car accident. May God have mercy on those of us who have lost, and may their place be paradise. As it is known, International Traffic Day is celebrated around the world on the first Saturday of May and the week after that, this week as International Traffic Week. And I'd like to bring this up in the House and bring you up to speed on some statistical information and a meeting we're having on Thursday to create awareness here. When we look at traffic safety, when we compare countries of the European Union and Turkey, we are heavily carrying passengers and loads of cargo both on passengers and on land. In recent years, even though the railway has increased its share of the airway, 89 per cent of cargo transport is now being carried out by land, and 89 per cent of passenger transport is being carried out by land. As a result, traffic accidents come up on the road, and it's in the media every day. As of February 2016, the number of drivers reached 27 million, 576 thousand, while the number of motor vehicles reached 20 million 159. This leads to more accidents in exchange for increasing numbers -- in parallel with our economic development. The increase in the total number of vehicles in Germany compared to 2012-2013 was 20 per cent in Germany, 26 per cent in France, 39 per cent in Spain, 108 per cent in our country. This is extremely important. As of 2015, the total number of vehicles per capita in our country increased by 25 per cent compared to 2012. There are traffic accidents everywhere. According to World Health Organization data, around 1,250,000 people worldwide die in a car accident every year. In our country, 3,831 people died at the scene of a car accident in 2015, 308,120 people were injured. Here, when we look at the causes of accidents, it's a 98% human error, and we see that as human beings, as drivers, pedestrians, and travellers, it's a huge share. When we examine the causes of these accidents, statistics show that 44 percent of driving-related accidents are caused by speeding, 15 percent by misaltitude, 2 percent by red light violations, and 2.6% by driving in the opposite direction. The number of deaths fell to 100 million vehicles/kilometers in the result of technological struggle at 5,72 in 2003 and 2.17 in 2014. In particular, I would like to thank our Home Secretary Efkan Ala Bey here; he has recently launched a study with universities to reduce traffic accidents and increase traffic safety, and he has two important titles. One is the intensive use of technology, and the second is the study of raising awareness and education in people. In that sense, with the Police Department, the work continues rapidly. In order to contribute, we, as MP, will hold a meeting Thursday at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'd like to address the members of the group and the members of the group, the MPs, and the members of the group here. We're going to have a meeting like this Thursday at the Assembly campus, which means we're going to create awareness. The head of Shell Turkey has also supported this meeting; we thank President Ahmet Bey, our chief of police. We're gonna have a simulator app on campus. We'll see the benefits of the seat belt in the simulator application. This ceremony will be attended by students, disabled disabled citizens in traffic accidents. The work our ministry has done, we'll share what needs to be done. And I want to thank the president for promising me on such a Traffic Week. I'd like to invite you all to the ceremony on Thursday at the Capitol campus. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And for the simulator trial, I repeat my invitation for you precious surrogates, with all due respect, I salute you all. I wish you a good traffic, no accidents.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0006par0048	Thank you, Mr. Ilican. And we would like to express our condolences to you once again for your mother's passing. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Parsak (Afyonkarahisar) who wants to speak about the problems of Afyonkarahisar. Here you go, Mr. Parsak. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0007par0055	I have taken an off-the-book commitment to assess the problems of the St. Turkish nation, the respected MPs, my constituency and my hometown of Afyonkarahisar. On this occasion, I salute the Veterans' House. First of all, I must say that in the history of the Republic, we say, "God bless everyone who puts stones on stone in Afyonkarahisar." However, our understanding of responsible opposition is of great importance, as well as our realistic display of shortcomings and errors. Despite the benefits of marble and geothermal energy for efficient soil and water sources, our Afyonkarahisar, a town of 49 villages during the AKP administrations, is unfortunately among the first 30 provinces to give the most migration, although it has geothermal energy, air quality is considered sensitive and unhealthy, and has been repeatedly said by AKP officials to be the star of Egyonkarahisar. Generally speaking, all our countrymen in Afyonkarahisar are facing significant problems; our workers, our officers, our pensioners, cannot bring the end of the month; our tradesmen, our businessmen are bankrupt; our livestock, our farmers are devastated. In our province, a distance of more than 250km from the north and south, 49 municipalities have suffered significant setbacks in public services as a result of closing. Afyonkarahisar, said to be the capital of health tourism in terms of the geothermal water advantage, was unfortunately the capital of AKP camps. On the other hand, Afyonkarahisar (Afyonkarahisar) has a 11% share in the geothermal greenhouse areas in Turkey. In our districts, where the production of cherries and cherries is leading, especially Sultandağı and Tea, the manufacturers are practically crying blood. The agricultural areas of Afyonkarahisar (Afyonkarahisar) were about 5.5 million per cent in 2007, while today it was reduced to 4.5 million per cent. Our strategic products, such as sugar beets, hash, potatoes, cherries, and cherries, still do not show the necessary attention and support; problems are being raised by dressing measures and support. Afyonkarahisar, which was once Turkey's leading red meat production centre, fell in the background for reasons such as rising bait prices and unplanned imports of living animals, almost empty cotras. Similarly, producers in our Basmakçı district, in the case of the egg market, are struggling with lack of existence due to the government's erratic Middle Eastern policy and false economic policies. At this point, the decline of the VAT (KDV) in the food and fertilizer has been negative to the manufacturers, making the manufacturers credited for VAT. This is our farmer, and he's miserable for many reasons, and he can't pay his debts. Our farmers expect their debts to be structured and paid off. In Afyonkarahisar, a mining city for many of our counties, Iscehisar, investors are in a difficult position because of the fact that mining permits have been left under Prime Ministerial supervision and increased tuition; businesses close; workers remain unemployed. In our Afyonkarahisar (Afyonkarahisar), the long-standing discussion of where the Ankara-Izmir highway would cross became a disappointment when it was discovered that the highway would cross the districts of Eskişehir and Kütahya. We want the Ankara-Izmir highway to our Afyonkarahisar. Victory Regional Airport, with the do-and-run model, has already exceeded 4m euros in public damage. We want immediate measures to prevent this damage and prevent damage from growing during the contract period, which is why we want it to be protected. The exports of our province, which exports to 130 countries economically, dropped 60 million dollars in 2015, reducing by 15.1 per cent compared to the previous year. On behalf of all our exporting sectors, we demand immediate treatment for this bleeding wound. Turkey, despite its legendary schools of Presidents, Prime Minister and countless states, has not been able to enter the first 50, but our educational system has been alerted in Turkey as a province of Afyonkarahisar, such as the YGS and LYS. Because of these sequences and the time limit, I demand that all these shortcomings be removed immediately on behalf of the people of Afyonkarahisar. Finally, our Afyonkarahisar is the best-looking province of the throne. I have a law proposition at this point. I address all political party groups, especially the MPs of our province, Mr. Secretary: I demand that this matter be crowned not by a political approach, but by the throne of Afyonkarahisar, which is deserved by Afyonkarahisar, and I salute you once again.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0008par0069	Thank you, Mr. Parsak. Congressmans, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise the first 15 MPs entering the system one minute according to 60, and then I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group. However, before I make a promise to the MPs, I would like to share my feelings and thoughts with you and women and mothers, as a result of Mother's Day. Congressmans, dear women and dear mothers, last week was Mother's Day week. As women who give birth to life and feed it, we know that human life and honorable life are the most precious things on earth. Of course, I will not celebrate Mother's Day from this office as thousands of mothers receive Mother's Day in the absence of their murdered children. On the one hand, I'd like to bless motherhood, and on the other hand, I'd like to address the heart and soul of the militant male violence that separates women and children from life. Those who claim to have seen heaven at the feet of mothers, also describe the hell you put on the feet of women and mothers. Because we don't need a blessing, we need a political morality to answer for. Every day, dozens of us die in men's murders. Isn't this the country that Mother Berfo longed for, who didn't have her baby painted for her whole life just because she couldn't recognize it? At the age of 12, Uður's mother, who was shot to death by 13 bullets, lives in this country. And she took the pieces of her little child, and the pieces of her father, and put them in her skirt in this land. In Roboski, the cry of the mothers who had taken their bodies into their arms, torn apart by the plane bombs of their own state echoed in this land. There is a mother in this country who sends her 14 - year - old child to bread and holds her lifeless body. The two-month-old Miray led to a massacre of the baby's snipers, a cremation of lungpar in the basements, the rulers of this country. How many mothers that circle of fire burns now embrace their graves, not their children. Didn't they want to take a 57-year-old mother's life and leave her body standing on the street for eight days and feed it to the wolf and the bird that blessed motherhood? Last week, for the 580th time, the Mothers' Saturdays did not celebrate Mother's Day for decades because they had no response to their quest for justice and had no graves to leave flowers, and they came to celebrate Mother's Day and to speak of the sanctity of motherhood when thousands of women who rule this country cannot. Therefore, I would like to once again express every mother's request without hesitation: We don't want a paradise under our feet, we want a country where our children live in safety. Our paradise is a country where the ones we gave birth to and raised don't hurt, they're defended for the rest of their lives. I know that as long as we have women standing in the face of persecution and oppression with eternal determination and faith, this land will one day be the home of beauty, not of death, but of honorable life. With that faith, I salute all our women and mothers with respect, love, gratitude, and gratitude. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] Congressmans, as well, this week is the week of the disabled. While the political world struggles with its own problems, unfortunately, one cannot see the care and value it deserves in the eyes of the state. Turkey has a population of disabled people who have found millions but are not in social education or in public space. The disabled need support, not pity. It is imperative that these laws be enforced as much as legal arrangements to regulate the lives of disadvantaged communities in society that will provide them with ease. I share my feelings of solidarity with all our disabled citizens on the occasion of World Handicapped Week; I would like to point out that we will surely reach a better, more habitable country level with a unity. Congressmans, now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of parliament who have entered the system, but I'm going to make a promise to the first 15 MPs. This week, on the occasion of Mother's Day, I'm going to make a promise to the women's deputies who then entered the system during the day, and I'll give them to you for your information. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] First word, Mr. All...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0009par0095	Mr. President, I'm celebrating Mother's Day, wishing for the end of pain and tears in our country. May 10, 16 is the week of the disabled. From here, I salute all our disabled citizens, and wish them a life without obstacles. According to Balıkesir County Population Data Table research, co-ordinated by the South Marmara Development Agency and the City Department of Family and Social Policy, the number of disabled people in Balıkesir is 138, which is a serious number. According to TÜİK data, there are only 572 disabled people employed in Balıkesir. We know that more than half of the disabled quotas in Turkey are empty. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary: How long is the disability staff in Balıkesir, in the public and private sector as of 2016? How much of this is used? What is the total disability quota in Turkey? How much of it is available? Why aren't these used? What are these, if you have a new application to create jobs instead of putting salaries to disabled persons?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0010par0098	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0011par0100	Mr. President, thank you. In the 2014 local elections, my electoral district promised that they would not receive water subscription money from the districts and villages who voted in Metropolitan City, mountain districts and for the first time for five years, and that the water they brought to their villages with their own means would be free for five years. In recent complaints, however, large amounts of money have been demanded, especially from Orhaneli, Keles, Majororhan, Harmancik districts, both under the name of the clock and under the name of the money. We demand that this matter be dealt with by investigation, as promised in the local election, to address the problem of the peasant, the citizen. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0012par0103	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0013par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, this weekend I visited villages and towns in Niğde Province. One of the things that we're usually told about is watering and drinking water. Ulukışın Tepeköy and Şeyhmerlı have stated that they have drinking water problems in the village of the Pilot. In the villages of Niğde-Himmelı, Bor-Halç, Bor-Havuzlu, Ulukışla-Tepeköy, Ulukışla-Sheikherli, Ulukışla-Horoz, there is also a demand for a pond for water resources. Troubles with the ponds continue in the straits and the Orders, and they have re-transfered their demands to find order as soon as possible. It's a general request for State Water Affairs to meet such demands in the region as soon as possible. Besides, the watering water problem is a common problem for Niğde. And in this regard, it is the wish of all my countrymen that the project on Ecemis water be carried out immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0014par0109	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0015par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. Precious lawmakers, valued ministers, the State Department of Environment and Urbanism reported that a report on Environmental Problems and Priorities Review in Turkey has uncovered a report on the water, air, waste and noise pollution of 81 provinces across Turkey, and of these most important problems, the environmental waste problem in Düzce is at the 1st place of water pollution, in the second place, in the third place of air pollution, in the fourth place, in the fourth place, in the fourth place. When will you do so as a ministry? Minister, you had a meeting in Düzce. You made 11 promises there. The year is now in May of 2016. None of your promises have been fulfilled. Dozens are victims. How long will you be able to deal with this sacrifice? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0016par0114	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0017par0116	Mr. President, I congratulate you on Mother's Day. Explaining the Panamanian documents, the revolution will be digitized. The Doe said that banks, financial regulators and tax authorities had failed and that they had made decisions against mid-income citizens. Before the AKP came to power, 90 per cent of society's poor had 32 per cent of the total wealth. At the end of 13 years of AKP's power, it fell to 22 per cent, a 10 per cent loss developed in this 13 years of power. You put ten percent of the poor people into the pocket of one percent. Genghis Construction, Çalak, Remzi Gür, Aghaoğlu, mentioned in the Panama papers, is only some of them. Sources say that thousands of investigations could be launched if actual documents were reached and examined. The person who pulled the documents says he's ready to cooperate. Your Prime Minister, who says, "I don't want a thief politician." You suddenly forget about the national will. I'd like to ask the authorities if they'll do what they need to do.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0016par0118	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0018par0120	Mr. President, thank you. Balıkesir Ivrindi is one of the largest villages in our district of Onionbük. The encasement of the onionbuke has already disappeared on a twokm road connecting the main asphalt, with nothing left in the name of the road, and the road has become a field. On this road of heavy traffic, dust is tried to travel through the mud on rainy days. Before the elections, AKP executives and candidates had asked for their votes, promising that the road would soon be done, and other problems of the village would be solved, and the necessary services would be done, and our citizens had put their faith in this promise, but since then no one has been in Onsbüpek, and no problems have been solved. Onionbü people want to keep the promise made in the election, at least two kilometers of this road to be done quickly. We invite the authorities to their duties.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0016par0122	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0019par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, when we celebrate Mother's Day these days in our country, children are being raped in dorms - can there be a greater pain for a mother? - Someone's looking for the presidency. In our country, children are being raped in schools, someone's looking to be president. In our country, children are being raped in prisons, someone's looking to be president. We wake up every day with child rapes, and someone's looking to be president. We've studied juvenile prisons, we've written reports, we've written books, we've proposed laws three semesters in a row, there's no minister. We filed an investigation motion, and the AKP voted against it. How many more children must be raped to attract the attention of the AKP?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0016par0126	Dear Nurlu...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0020par0128	Mr. President, while the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey is distracted by the court's coup, arguing whether the replacement will be low-profile or unprofiled, we are not aware of the money being taken from the citizens' pockets. The AKP's government, which principled on paying the bill for the electricity used by fugitives, wants to make the electricity used legal by taking it further. Dispersal companies that can't prevent illegal use are billing the public for their incompetence. The government's son-in-law, who works for electricity distribution companies to make more profit, is violating the rights and laws of the citizen by law brought to parliament. I respectfully salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0016par0129	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0021par0131	Thank you. There are sewers in the Lakecik neighborhood of Karacabey district, but the sewer is being poured out into Lakecik Creek. This stream is watering the surrounding farmland. And that's why those farmlands are watered with septic. When the whole city law was being passed, it was said that small municipalities don't have enough staffs. It means that if there are such bad practices after the entire city law comes out, it's not that there are big or small municipalities, it's that they're building up and running for the environment, for the people, for the future, and for the people. I demand that Karacabey be returned as soon as possible from this mistake regarding the Lakecik neighbourhood of Karacabey. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0022par0134	Mr. Division...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0023par0136	According to national media reports, Kastamonon Mayor Tahsin Babas has made a statement that he forbids any further act of coal to be played at weddings and holidays because it is contrary to our culture. On the other hand, what is the legal basis for the banning of a secular, modern-day Ottomanism, traditionalism rhetoric, which is a reflection of the civil life of republican revolutions, while it is one of the most important forms of entertainment in the palace until the end of the Ottoman Empire, one of the rare specimens from the palace to civilian life, and an important part of the entertainment culture of Kastamon? This attitude by the mayor of Kastamonu is something that is not in our culture. Can it also be a reason for tomorrow's banning painting, sculpture, classical Western music, ballet and even theatre? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0024par0139	Dear Man...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0025par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. About 10,000 employees of social welfare and solidarity foundations are experiencing serious problems. We've also submitted a parliamentary inquiry motion on this matter. The foundation staff, who have worked for many, many years, has no staff. In the event of the appointment of their spouses because they have no transfer rights, families suffer unresolved losses. These foundations, which are a public institution under high judicial decisions, are in accordance with the principle of the social state. Therefore, we demand and demand that the Ministry of Labour and Social Security and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy do an urgent work at the point of solving the problems of tens of thousands of foundation employees. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0026par0144	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0027par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. In the 14-year period of AKP's rule, there are many records. One of the records is our working brothers who died in business killings and business accidents. Over 17,000 workers have lost their lives, and these are the figures that are reflected in official statistics. In the first four months, the current number is around 600, again, reflected in statistics. This week, again, is a sad day for us on Friday, May 13th. In the second year of our brothers and sisters who lost their lives two years ago, we will be together in Soma. Once again, we welcome our brothers who died in business accidents, in business murders, in mining accidents, and we invite the AKP government to prevent these murders. We want them to take measures and measures to prevent job killings, instead of looking for low-profile, high-profile prime minister. In person, we celebrate Mother's Day. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0028par0153	Thank you. Mr. Illgezdi...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0029par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. There's a great drama going on in the church. In addition to the rockets that hit the city, the government's insensitivity to the issue also hurts the locals. So far, 21 people have lost their lives in the church, 78 others have been injured. The government's first task was to send psychologists into the city, which said it would take every precaution. Like the governor of Kilis, who did not go to the streets without absorption, the psychologists who were sent to the city, do not be afraid, do not leave your places, you cannot escape death if you are destined to. While 40 per cent of the people with 100,000 populations have migrated, it is a scandal to the public that 30,000 students have stopped training throughout the city for the past three weeks, that 30,000 students can't go to schools because of fear of life and that psychologists are supposed to be sent to the city while they have left the city. We're looking for a statement from the government on the matter.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0030par0159	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0031par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. He has now ignored the Prime Minister of the period, Mr. Davutoglu, and the Prime Minister's process, just after the European Commission's recommendation, which has forced himself to rule out constitutional limits. We, members of the Republican People's Party Parliament, will take this process to the national interests of the state and citizens of the Republic of Turkey from a personal conflict of interest between the Prime Minister and the President. Because it is celebrated as the European Day of May 9th, May 9th, May Europe Day will bring peace and peace to the citizens of our country and the citizens of the European Union on May 9th, with the belief that we will continue as a state policy in the Republican People's Party with respect and dignity and unconditional membership, as opposed to those who said, "We are on our way."
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0032par0164	Mr. Irgil...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0033par0166	Thank you, Mr. President. A very important issue in Turkey's complex agenda is increasing, Turkey is in a drug infestation. We've been reading reports of a number of drug seizures in narcotics operations almost every day. Drug use has increased, especially in children, and the age of use has dropped to nine. According to official statistics that I'm not going to explain here, there have been 3,500 substance-addicted students in Burma. The Ministry of National Education is nothing more than a show-of-the-art seminar on the issue. Bonzai is on his way to becoming a Bursa brand. I call on the Ministry of National Education to act by producing realistic projects with NGOs on the subject -- if he can remove his head from Foundations and Religion protocols. If there's no precaution, maybe a religious but definitely stoned generation will grow up, that's what I want to say.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0032par0168	Thank you, lawmakers. I promised the first 15 MPs their seats, but Mr. Bkent Bektasoglu has filed a petition to our Court office, a petition stating that he is in the 20th place but that he wants to address an important issue. I promise Mr. Bektasoglu. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0034par0173	Mr. President, thank you so much for your leniency. Sir, the deadline for receiving a certificate of professional competence will be over on May 26th as part of the Occupational Companies Act 5544. In 40 professions, especially the construction sector, the number of people who do not have documents is very high. It is stated that employers who employ workers without documents will be fined 500 lira per person by the Employment and Business Offices. A lengthy extension must be made by the end of the year, in view of the fact that many employees in these professions have not yet received documents, preventing intense demand for victims. I wanted to tell the ministers about it, thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0035par0176	Thank you, Mr. Bektasoglu. Congressmans, I'm going to give my word to the members of the group, where they are. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0036par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. We understood Mother's Day last Sunday. Today, I celebrate the Mother's Day of Mothers of all mothers, especially our fallen mothers, who have suffered pain and need to raise their children, and the mothers who raised and raised us. No matter our age, we always need their love, compassion, and memories. Today is the beginning of the week of the disabled. On a day like this, we would very much like to give a toast. But the disabled still have many problems facing solutions. What's important to us is that the disabled are integrated into society, that they live their lives without the help of others. The physical and social environment are still on the agenda so that they can continue their education and social life normally. On the other hand, government studies cannot be limited to improving and overseeing the rights of disabled individuals alone. The government has to ensure that the disabled develop in line with their abilities and potential, that they have equal opportunities, that they have economic and social well-being. Today, about 10 million disabled citizens in Turkey have problems in every area from education to health, employment to transportation. There is still no comprehensive state policy on disabled persons in our country, and there are different ministries and institutions that need to conduct these studies, but there is no holistic perspective to shape these works in co-direction. With these wishes, I wish this week to create awareness in the entire community, especially government and institutions.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0037par0185	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Demirel, come in.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0038par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, all mothers, especially you, are having a hard day today. The past Sunday on Mother's Day... Mothers are locked up in prisons, while mothers still can't reach their children's funerals, so politicians need to know what mothers are going through in this country while they celebrate Mother's Day. As far as we're concerned, today our mothers are in pain. In private, we don't have the opportunity to celebrate Mother's Day here while the children have suffered for a year. So I'd like to share these painful days with all the mothers, and I'd like to make an example of them sharing their painful days, and I'd like to use them to help the mothers expose their situation. For a hundred and twenty-one days, the mother of Rozerin Çukur is still unable to reach her funeral, even though her child has been found 100 metres away from her funeral. Rozerin's mother, Honory Çukur, states: "It is a gift to me to ask for my child's funeral on Mother's Day. This is how we sum up Turkey's situation, where we live in a country where mothers can't take their bodies today, where their children can't even have their graves. Therefore, by sharing the pain and suffering of the mothers once again, I say that all mothers must know that they live in pain, in pain, in all of Turkey. Likewise, there is a thought that prevents mothers from meeting their children in prison. Today, political leaders, mayors, and all those expressing their views for democracy and freedom are locked up in prisons, where mothers are actually trying to run a separate criminal law by being separated from their children. Again, today, in the same way, I would like to express the situation of the disabled because of the week of the disabled. I'll give you just one example of the state of the disabled: Today -- as you know -- in a fire in the crisis control room of a special disabled care centre in Ionya, a mentally disabled citizen in a locked room has lost his life, and 21 others have been affected by smoke. So, our approach to the disabled, in fact, is, like in the war concept, not to fix their social, legal problems, but to make them suffer more. I would like to say once again that all political and social duties must be fulfilled in order for our disabled citizens to find life on all social rights.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0039par0193	Thank you, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0038par0194	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0039par0195	Mr. Special, you're not in the system.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0040par0196	I have a request.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0039par0197	I'll get it opened if you want.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0040par0198	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0039par0199	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0040par0201	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I, like all speakers and members of the group, remember this day with the hope of Turkey in peace and peace that we have celebrated recently, but we have not come to express the message of celebration, that mothers do not suffer from children's suffering, that their children suffer from hunger, that their children will not weep, that they will be properly celebrated. Today is the State's Founding Day, and it's also Executive Judgement Day. Today, we are in a process where the only thing that will protect citizens from the decisions taken by the state's top President is that the judiciary is accused of being a liability to the actions made and that the decisions to conduct the arrangements to be carried out in the coming period are being brought out of judicial control, with statements about it being used. Once again, we express to our citizens here to highlight the importance of judicial control over the actions of conduct. Today, in his own land, in his own vineyard, in his own olive grove, in his own work, or someone who has taken a roof over his head with what he's been saving for years, if what the President wants today happens, at the beginning of his field one morning, when he meets the dozers at the end of his house, the only authority to prevent him from getting his due. We tell all our citizens in Turkey today on Judgment Day, when it is clear what the president's presidential system has done to the party of its founder, and how vulnerable he has been to his party, that you will have no guarantees in the presidential system that the president will bring to the country, who wants to get out of administrative jurisdiction; and when the doses come to the door, when he comes to the door, there is now the President's office, there is no judicial control, and you will no longer be a liability to governance. Once again, we express the importance of judicial control to our vulnerable citizens throughout Asia Minor. In addition, we salute the intellectual and progressive young men of Kayseri, who are here with us today from Kayseri, in the name of the Republican People's Party, who are here today to support the national will, against the palace blow that happened on May 4th, where Ataturk was behind you, where sovereignty was unconditionally in our midst.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0041par0207	You should have said a few words about the May 10 coup.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0040par0208	You tell me, I'll give you the answer.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0041par0209	You can't, you'll get run over.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0042par0210	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Incescuz, here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0043par0213	Mr. President, dear congresswoman friends, I'm celebrating Mother's Day, which was celebrated last weekend, and Mother's Day, where all our mothers' hands were kissed. Of course, when it comes to mothers, it comes to our precious grandparents, our parents, who are the source of unrequited love and mercy. I believe that such days are not only right to be celebrated by just one day, that we should appreciate their values in every aspect of our lives - especially as someone who recently lost their father - while they were alive and under the feet of their mothers. For our fathers, I think that we should appreciate them. In the meantime, I would especially like to point out that we've talked about our parents, our mothers, our children's pain. Today there is a war on terrorism that has lasted for nearly 40 years in our country. I specifically want to point out that when you talk about pain, you ignore the other side of pain and say it's an insincere expression. In particular, while celebrating Mother's Day, kissing their blessed hands, we have martyr mothers who have given them my respects, my deep gratitude from here, and my wishes for patience for the rest of their lives. While we were fighting terrorism, our martyrs came to my knowledge, and we know their pain, and we know the cause of this pain, and the resources and the mothers should not cry. We are fighting terrorism today as a result of the process we started. It is a righteous and legitimate struggle. To ignore this struggle and to talk about one side of the pain and to express one side is a sign of insincereness, and I want to make it very clear. I want to make it very clear to you that I have shared my greetings, greetings, and pain with the mother of Yasin Börür, who was killed in his bed, who was killed in front of his wife, in front of his child, as mentioned earlier. I say it would be much more meaningful to share these sufferings when they are mentioned and there is also a curse on the threat of the PKK terror organization, which has actually carried out today's terrorist organization against terrorism, where our citizen has taken his life, his daily life, and his regular life in an extraordinary process. However, the speakers, especially from time to time, say such things as here, the concept of war. I specifically say that Turkey is in a very serious process of fighting terror against seven heifers. And in that sense, I want to make it very clear that we are always there for our police, our soldiers, and our citizens who have to live under the threat of terrorism, and that our fight against legitimate, legitimate, determined terrorism will continue decisively until the end of this righteous, decisive war on terror, terrorist organizations, and armed elements leave our country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do I have a minute?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0044par0220	We gave you all three minutes together, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0043par0221	Oh, yeah? Well, thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0044par0223	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz. We also express our condolences to you once again for your father's death, and to your father's mercy.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0043par0225	Thank you very much, thank you, God bless you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0044par0226	Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I will have the motions read separately. Since the parliamentary survey motion I'm going to read in first place is more than 500 words, the motion summary will be read, but will be included in the full text of the motion in the journal. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Despite its many definitions, education is an activity in helping new generations prepare to take their place in public life, helping them acquire the necessary knowledge, skills, and insights to develop their personality. In countries with a healthy education policy, progress in democracy, human rights, disability rights, environmental sensitivity, economic development, art and so on has always been faster and more permanent. Education policies in our country are free of science and secular education, and are constantly variable. Education has become a system that teachers, parents, students, and even bureaucrats can't and can't follow. Studies show that confidence in the educational system is becoming increasingly low, that it's getting further and further away from a national educational system, and that the brain migration we've always complained about is increasing. One of the main reasons for this situation is government policies that are trying to transform the educational system for its political-ideological goals. In all levels of the Ministry of National Education, political staffing has been intense in all areas from the ministry to the schools, and political and trade union references have been decisive in determining education executives, not accuracy. With the implementation of the 4+4+4 education system, the functionality of public educational institutions has decreased, the number of private elementary schools and secondary schools supported and encouraged by public resources has increased every day. The lack of physical conditions, the overcrowding of classrooms, the lack of teachers, has also increased interest in private schools for parents. The total number of private elementary schools, which were 931 prior to the 4+4+4 system, increased to 2,316, as of 2015, to 1,205 private elementary schools and 1,111 private secondary schools. The number of private high schools increased from 1,033 to 1,603. While many of our public schools could not benefit from many funds such as fuel, stationery, cleaning, security, the number of private schools that received encouragement in 2014 was $1,878, and the amount of funds transferred was $1 billion,496 million. This practice further increases the inequality of opportunities that already exist in education. 36,401 girls who graduated from secondary school in 2013-2014 did not register at any school during this training period. Tests used in transitioning from basic education to secondary education, each measuring different knowledge and skill, have a negative effect on both basic education and secondary education. Because students, teachers, and parents who try to adapt to the system that has often changed have suffered psychological and material loss as well as loss of time and work. The same is true of university entrance exams. To all of these things, the increase in privatisation practices in education, the reduction in courses such as philosophy, science, art and physical education, the slow transfer of religious weight in all stages of education, the decline in the number of girls, the decline in students in knitting, the reduction in the number of students in knitting, the reduction in the democratic, secular and scientific structure of education, the growing violence among students due to camping and polarization, the difficulties of our educators in both economic and working conditions, the difficulties of physical equipment and infrastructure in our schools, the dissolution between schools in which they have been separated, the complex testing systems, and non-sponsionable teachers that we can't be able to implement until we can't be able to implement until there is a lot more problem, and that our country's a new system of education is under the same condition. For these reasons, we propose and propose the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution, in order to resolve problems in the frequently modified educational system. [[Mersin]] 2) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] 5) Zülfikar Inönu Division [[Adana]] 6) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] 9) Fatma Kaplan Liberty [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 10) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] 11) Cemal Okan Ascendant [[Eskişehir]] [[Ankara]] 13) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Army]] [[Balıkesir]] 19) Bornt Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] [[Amasya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The disease of celiac disease, viewed as a disease of the world's future, is also common in our country. In order to create awareness of the celiac disease, to take precautions on the diagnostic process, to investigate the reasons and consequences in detail, and to produce solutions in these matters, and to provide permanent assistance for patients who have been exposed to this disease, we respectfully convey the need for the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104th and 105 of our Constitutional Parliamentary Council of Turkey. [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] 4) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Kayseri]] [[Scholarship]] 8) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Aydın]] [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[Isparta]] [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 20) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] The prevalence of celiac disease in our country ranges from 1 to 3 per cent to 3 per cent, while between 250,000 and 750,000 celiac patients are estimated in Turkey, while between 25,000 and 75,000 are expected to be diagnosed, considering 10 per cent. Undiagnosed patients in society are the invisible part of the iceberg. The number of patients who received reports of celiac disease in the Health Ministry's health information systems in April 2015 is 67,683. celiac disease is becoming more serious every day. The celiac disease is a systemic disease in children and adults with genetic predispositions of various proteins such as wheat, rye, oatmeal and barley (gluten) and, more than likely, an absorption disorder in the small intestines. In the forefront of various grain proteins, the celiac can cause damage to the small intestine, but it can affect almost every organ. As a result, celiac patients are unable to feed on any nutrients made of grain and grain products (bread, cake, cake etc.) and, given their victims, it won't be difficult to predict how difficult they face in everyday life. In this case, celiac patients have to pay attention to what they eat, what they drink, what they wear, and even what they take for treatment for other diseases. celiac patients can only use drugs produced by a single pharmaceutical company. In order to be diagnosed with mostly secret celiac disease, this disease must be recognized by individuals and taken into account. The next stage is the diagnosis of the disease by blood tests and a biopsy from the small intestine. Diagnosis can be delayed due to non-recognizable health workers, and the cost of a diagnostic test is paid by the state, but is not made by unconscious health workers. Health workers are also required to monitor and improve their awareness of post-professional literature. At the same time, in order to increase that awareness, the number of gastroenterology sections found in hospitals must be increased and improved. After being diagnosed with celiac disease, the treatment can only be treated by diet. There are no other treatments available. This requires a gluten-free diet. If celiac patients don't pay attention to what they eat and drink and diete for life, they face many diseases, such as bone melting and many forms of cancer. In order for celiac patients to take care of their diets, their products must be gluten-free. These products are sold at certain large shopping malls and are very expensive. The government's aid to celiac patients is very rare. Patients are paid $78.75 in age of 0-5 and $120 in age 5-15 and $108.75 in age 15. The social lives of celiac patients are also at a standstill. The places where they can eat outside are limited. In places that prepare menus for celiac patients, prices are very expensive. For example, one slice of water pie is $20, four slices of baklava is $50, one bagel is $5, and one bar is $12. Food and other sectors in Turkey do not make special products for celiac patients, so products come from abroad. A single brand produced in Turkey produces only cakes and biscuits. This is not enough, and these products are not available in every market. In addition, food products, medicines, clothing and cleaning products are produced not only for people who are sick of celiacs abroad, but also for them. A parliamentary study is also seen as necessary to create awareness of celiac disease for the reasons revealed above, to take precautions on the diagnosis process, to investigate the reasons and consequences in detail, and to provide solutions to these issues, as well as to provide permanent assistance to patients exposed to this disease. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the measures to be taken by investigating the human and nature of the contamination of the rivers in the region between the north of Balıkesir Plains and Simav Tea, I respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104,5, and 105. [[Balıkesir]] [[Manisa]] 3) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Samsun]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Isparta]] 11) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[Scholarship]] 13) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] [[Inconceived]] [[Sakarya]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 21) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] With each passing day, the problem of pollution has become the problem of all living and lifeless beings that are becoming more important and gain an international dimension. The polluting of Simav Tea, one of the major cities in the agriculture and livestock industry, Balıkesir, is a major damage to agriculture and animalism in the region. Simav tea (or Susurluk tea) takes its source from the Shaphane Mountains near Simav. It heads north on the Plains of Silence and then passes through Karacabey into the Sea of Marmara. It is the largest river in the Sea of Marmara. The Susurity Tea is called the Susurity River because it collects rivers around it, is centrally located, and is longer than other streams. Another name for the Restriction Dam is called the TeaSeer Dam. Many fish in tea are possible and rich in fish. In the dam, trout, carp, damfish, yellow fish, rockfish, coral fish, maple fish, and white fish are extremely dense. Tea is also used for irrigation in the fields. The pollution of Simav Tea, which is of great importance, has previously been studied by the Environment and Forest Regional Directorate of the 25th District Directorate, but there has been no comprehensive work done in the field. The trend in industrialisation and growth of the province of Balıkesir has increased the importance of environmental pollution. A parliamentary research commission shall be established in accordance with Articles 104, and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution, in accordance with Articles 104, and 105, in order to determine the measures that should be taken by investigating the problems due to contamination in the rivers in the region between the north and the lowermost part of Balıkesir Plain. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Two female MPs have entered the system, Mr. Koksal and Mr. Özdemir. Now I will promise them according to 60. Mr. Rootsal, please.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0045par0394	Mr. President, first of all, we thank you very much for your kind behavior, just for giving the women's deputies a right all day long. And from here, I celebrate the Mother's Day of all our women, mother's Day. My constituency is made in Afyonkarahisar. Bloodily, there are 3+1 TOKI dwellings in the TOKI dwellings, but only for those of us who are married are given this right to their wives; unfortunately, their parents are not given the right to a dwelling there. Will there be a study or recognition of this right? That's what I want to ask you. Second: The marble company Taşmahal in the village of Balluklı, my constituency district of Afyonkarahisar Province, performs a tree massacre, where the juniper trees are being cut down and the number of trees are growing every day. Is nothing to be done in Afyonkarahisar, the home of the Minister of Forests and Waterworks for this tree massacre? I'm curious about that. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0046par0398	Thank you, Mr. Rootsal. Mr. Özdemir, come in.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0047par0401	Mr. President, thank you. There's been a slip-up request. I hereby celebrate Mother's Day, especially you, and bow to all the sacrifices and efforts that our mothers have made in raising us. And I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0048par0405	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. Congressmans, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Tuesday (June 10/5/2016) could not be unanimous, I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. The agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been proposed for the opening of the Parliament's inquiry on the basis of our proposal to open parliamentary research, which should be conducted in the 10/05/2016 General Assembly on Tuesday (now) in order to ensure the full use of public services by the 10/05/2016 General Assembly (now). Yes, Mr. Engin has entered the system. Mr. Engin, I give you my word according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0049par0424	Thank you, Mr. President. From January to January, our province was attacked by more than 70, 21 citizens lost their lives, and we have about 100 wounded. As our people leave the city in fear, despair, and insecurity, Governor, these missiles will of course fall, will they stay in the air, there's gravity. He can come at us, we don't go out without an abscess. He can say. The Republic of Turkey has not experienced such weakness and shame since its establishment. I'd like to ask the government, isn't the church the land of this country? Are the attacks on the church not counted as attacks on this country? Why do you ignore the suffering and drama of the church and why do you suffer? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0050par0428	Thank you, Mr. Engin. Members of parliament, the first speaker in favour of the nationalist Movement Party group's proposal is İzmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu. [[A round of applause from MHP Rows]] Your time is ten minutes, Your Holiness. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0051par0436	Mr. President, at the beginning of my speech, I start with the hope and hope that we may be able to give more good news to all our disabled citizens on May 10, 16th Week, with the motion we're negotiating. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge to explain the reason for our motion to establish a parliamentary research commission in order to determine the full and effective participation of disabled citizens in social life and all physical arrangements that will allow them to benefit from services equally from other individuals. I hereby salute your high council. Members of parliament, it is the duty of the authorities, the central government and local governments to accept the existence of the disabled in the community and to make it easy for them to live their lives. Besides, these missions are now due by law. However, we see that neither power nor many local governments have yet to meet the arrangements that will facilitate the lives of our disabled citizens. By July 7, 2012, all physical arrangements for public and decentralisation and local administrations, the full and effective participation of disabled citizens in social life and services and other individuals living in the community were ruled by the interim and interim and interim Articles of the law of the disabled, adopted at the time of the 59th Government's occupation. Congressmans, when we look at the 2005 talks in which Law No. 5378 came out, the importance of power to our disabled citizens was expressed during these talks, negotiations, and by law, they were promised to leave their homes and even enter social life and working life by the power. These unsatisfactory promises and promises to our disabled citizens are also in the minutes of that day's Grand National Assembly of Turkey, if studied. It's been about 11 years, and the physical arrangements that have been promised to our disabled citizens have not been fulfilled, unfortunately, for them to benefit equally from other individuals. These developments that would be in their favor, and our disabled citizens, who looked forward to the promises given in 2005, were imprisoned in their homes, and unfortunately, they were even more frustrated than they were when their promises were not fulfilled. Members of parliament, we also see what has been done so far that the government does not approach this important and vital issue sincerely. Because in July 2012, during the General Assembly talks of Law 6353, the government issued a motion to extend the term of Articles 2 and 3 of Law No. 5378, which I had just mentioned. What was achieved by this extension? In this scope, the implementation of accessibility standards has been postponed for another three years, including the two-year ministry-related by the law. At this point, life for our disabled citizens, unfortunately, has become even more unbearable with these laws. When we looked at February 2014, the Law No. 6518 and Law 2828 had been changed to the framework of the social assistance approach, including the definition of home care benefits. Now, look, I'm going to share with you in a moment what this complex phrase of law has to do with it. Thus, after January 2015, social care for disabled citizens is now conditioned to take an income test. What's a revenue test? The total monthly income entering the household -- a minimum fee of 1/3, and for those taking advantage of the intensive home care services -- is a single dollar more than 2/3, and yes, if there is even $1 more, the disability allowance will be cut off. In the past few days, we've come across an incident in Kiraz district of İzmir, my own constituency, which I'll bring to the agenda by the call from our citizens. Here, in one family, one is 90 per cent disabled and the other is 60 per cent disabled, and in one family, 90 per cent disabled, over 800 per cent of the monthly allowance given to our disabled sister, so that the other 60 per cent disabled brother is no longer eligible for home care allowance. That's why families have been through a lot of misery, and even more interestingly, they've even gone out of their way to show this brother in another house that doesn't make 60 percent of his income anymore. Now, that's not enough, and on top of that, they've been asked to update their disability reports, which unfortunately has given our disabled brothers and their families a very difficult time. This mentality, which accepts many disabled individuals in the household as one person, has unfortunately led to the cutting of the pensions they have acquired over the years, even though the total number of poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor people -- the amount they have taken, even if the income is insufficient. Dear lawmakers, for a disabled public official, 3 per cent are required for workers to work at 4 per cent and another 3 per cent disabled in the private sector. That's the law. However, when we look at reality, unfortunately, the public still has 22.551 disabled staff, and since we can't get the answers to the questions we're asking about why it's being kept blank, we can't really enlighten the community with the facts. Dear lawmakers, the law proposals of MPs from the National Movement Party, which will open jobs for disabled citizens, are not even on the agenda. Our disabled entrepreneurs are still under-taxed and underprivileged, and our entrepreneurs do not have positive discrimination in their access to funding. In addition to these problems, I'd like to bring another subject to your agenda. Problems in both health care and other areas remain in abundance. Most of the vital importance of disabled individuals' rehabilitation services, aids, medical waste supplies, or such vitals are either underpaid by the state or never paid for. In health facilities, access is still very low. See, it's very interesting that many medical centers have serious problems because of the fact that there are no sign language staff and particularly no doctors. According to a study, only 63 percent of 385 hospitals have sign languages that respond to information from 469 hospitals. The disabled sports clubs are still underfunded and underfunded. Our disabled athletes are either left alone or deprived of international sports competitions, valued lawmakers. In this regard, the problems our disabled citizens face are not only their own, but the common problem of both their families and their environments. I'm just saying... with these events from May 10th to May 16th, I think you'll be able to support this motion in the week of the disabled, with which awareness has been created, and I'd like to extend my regards to all of you again.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0052par0449	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Mr. Bennur Karaburun is the MP against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Karaburun. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0053par0454	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with love and respect. First of all, I'm celebrating Mother's Day, my dear mother, my sisters, and Leyla, who's been with me 24/7, and all our mothers' Day. I have made a pledge against the group proposal of the National Movement Party. The last 14 years in Turkey have been a period of progress that could be considered a revolution in the field of disability. In 2005, our country's first disabled law was passed. In areas such as health care, employment, education, and education, there was a breakthrough in the rights of the disabled, with the Law on the number 5378 of July 1, 2005, on the basis of the rights of the disabled. As a result of this law, the subcontracted subcontractors created a law of about 1,500 articles of disability. In addition, by this law, months of this change have increased by between 200 per cent and 300 per cent under Law 2022, which is either unable to work or unable to find a job, and the scope of the monthly connections has been expanded. The law No. 2022 extended the amount of income required to benefit from this month in 2013 by raising the minimum amount of minimum wage from 1/6 to 1/3 of the minimum wage to the level of income binding. In addition to Article 7 (2828) added to Social Services Law 5378, it has been provided to all disabled persons who are in need of care for the first time, to pay for care at home or private day care centres for the disabled. The minimum wage for home care in 2005 and two minimum wage payments in private day care centres. With the change made in 2014, the amount of payment will be tied to the number of indicators and paid for home care at 10,000 for care and 20,000 indicators for maintenance in private care centres, with the amount of officer's coefficient multiplication. The budget for these services is quite high, one of the key indicators of modernity. The situation is intended to be assessed in terms of family members' negative impacts on psychosocial and economic conditions and that a member of the family may sever their relationship with employment and that the number of disabled persons in the household will benefit the household, as well as that they will be given home care care care care care care care care care for the disabled at home, as well as providing care for the disabled at home. Under Article No. 5378 of the Law on the disabled, any public road, sidewalks, crosswalks, open and green areas, sports areas and similar social and cultural infrastructure areas and the use of buildings are required to remove obstacles to the social life of the disabled. Again, it is imperative that Law on the disabled be made available to the disabled in accordance with Article 5378, which the city municipalities and municipalities offer or supervise. An interstate passenger transport service and a regulation on the access to service and tourism transport service were designed to determine issues related to the access of disabled persons in inter-city passenger transport services and services and tourism transport services. The amendment to Article 8 of the Law on Property Tax 1319 is exempted from the property tax of a house that does not exceed the gross 200 m of the disabled. With a joke added to Article 42 of the Law on Property 634, physical arrangements for disabled persons are made in the dwellings in case the disabled are forced to live, while the project is made easy for a taste. The amendment to Article 122 of the Turkish Penal Code, titled Partitional Law, has also been issued from six months to a year for discrimination practices against the disabled. In 2014, the title of Article 122 was changed as "Hate and Segregation," and the sanction for discrimination against the disabled increased from six months to one year in prison from one year to three years. Again, the amendment to the Constitution in 2010 has been passed on to the level of law, where positive discrimination against the disabled will not be considered discrimination. The work of the Turkish Sign Language System, released on the basis of Article 15/4/2006 on the basis of Article 578 of the Law on the disabled, was launched in accordance with the regulation of the Turkish sign language system for the creation and implementation of the Turkish Sign Language System, published in the Official Gazette 26139. The basis for Turkish sign language translation and the creation of the Turkish sign language system has been established. In order to increase the number of Turkish sign language interpreters and teachers, training programmes approved by the Board of Education and Education have been prepared, and sign language interpreters are employed in the provinces. In co-ordinating the institute of higher education to ensure that those who are disabled from university students are actively participating in the study, under Article 5378 of the Law on the disabled, the establishment of disabled students to work on issues such as providing equipment and lesson materials for the disabled, proper education, research and housing environments, and solving the problems they face in the education process has been established. Special education schools No. 5580, under the Special Education Institutions Act, which has also been established by special education assessment boards, which have been found to be limited to 20 per cent disabled, and are eligible to receive support training at private education and rehabilitation centres, sightings, language, speech, Spastics, mental, orthopedic or mental disabled individuals, each year the amount of education costs are covered by the Finance Ministry's budget for this purpose. A variety of measures have been set up with Law No. 5378 to encourage the opening of protected workplaces predicted to be established with the Law on the disabled. Many incentives have been developed by the Law on Taxes, the Law on Taxes, the Law on Institutions Taxes and City Insurance, and the Law on Unemployment Insurance, to promote, and to increase disability employment, which is of great importance to the employment of the mentally or mentally disabled. In addition, the pensions of disabled workers who will work in protected workplaces with the supplemental article brought into the Employment Law have been paid from the treasury to a certain extent. The amendment to Article 10 of the Constitution in 2010 earned positive discrimination against the disabled and constitutional security, with the ruling that the measures for the disabled cannot be considered contrary to the principle of equality. We were among the first countries to sign the contract on 30/3/2007, the first binding international document, and the first countries to sign the contract, which envisioned full and equal use of rights and freedoms and facilitating measures on the main axis of fighting discrimination for the disabled. A separate and centralized test has been developed for the disabled, who will be appointed as a state official for the first time by the amendment to Article 6111 of State Officials Act No. 657, instead of separate trials by public institutions and institutions. This and many others like this happened during the AK PARTY period. In this change, it has also been effective for the disabled to be defined not only through a medical approach but also through a social and right-based approach. Although the concept of disability rights is perceived as an independent rights category for disabled individuals, it is intended to encourage the disabled to benefit fully and equally from all basic rights and freedoms, as other individuals do, and strengthen the respect for human dignity. In accordance with new right-based approaches, under this great roof, the AK PARTY studies...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0054par0466	Mr. Karaburun, I can give you an extension to complete. Here you go. I'll give you an extension.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0053par0468	Thank you very much. ...will continue without cutting off speed. There may be flaws, but the laws established should not be ignored. I salute you all. Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0055par0473	Thank you, Mr. Karaburun. The second speaker in favour of the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal is Mr. Mustafa Hüsni Bozkurt. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0056par0478	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I would like to give you the opinion of the Republican People's Party Group on a motion by the National Movement Party Group to determine the measures for the full benefit of disabled citizens. I hereby salute your esteemed delegation. I would like to start by asking Mr. President, the Honorable Speaker and the Presidential Court -- to build an electronic platform here -- perhaps we may have other disabled friends -- to create a healthier view every time our dear member of the AKP Group has made a promise here. Both speakers who spoke before me gave general information. Of course, May 10th, May 16th is a week in the world where almost all United Nations members organise different events to create awareness this week. We have 8.5 million disabled citizens in Turkey, 12 per cent of our population are disabled. I've been talking about this -- it's just been mentioned -- and I've been postponing it for three years with a change in 2012, referring to the law on disability number 5378, extended to July 7, 2015, and I've been waiting six months for an answer. What we asked in our proposal was that there are 1,397 municipalities in Turkey, including 30. How many of these municipalities have taken measures that provide ease for the disabled and facilitate their transportation? Do you have any sanctions regarding municipalities that do not comply with the law? In fact, even when we're on the website of the Turkish Statistical Agency, we face a major disgrace. There has been no research into the problems and expectations of disabled individuals since 2011, and there is no current data, friends. In addition, our disabled have various problems starting with access to public buildings. One of your most important problems is education. The total number of disabled people who can benefit from education is not even 7.7%, and 96 percent of our disabled cannot receive vocational education. In addition, the total percentage of disabled persons who can work at a job is 14.3 per cent. And that, at this point, is one of the most concrete indications that we're really far behind, friends. Of course, I'd like to underline the fact that the real obstacle is not in the body or the mind, but in ideas and consciences. That's the situation with our disabled citizens. Well, let's see what the state of the country is like. Dear friends, the way to rule in democracies is to choose citizens in elections. In the 14-year elections, this choice favours the Justice and Development Party, and the Justice and Development Party alone, without any objection. As with our disabled, there are serious problems with your view of our state, our Justice and Development Party. What is it? Governments are delegations assigned to govern the state, not to become states. Because the state is the state of all citizens, and it is the government's duty to rule that state. What's mission one? To ensure the boundary integrity of the country. The second indispensable task is to ensure the integrity of the land that borders. Third task: to ensure the free wave of the national flag, the symbol of independence on that land. And in the end, the fourth requirement to be a government is to ensure the safety of its citizens' lives and property. Dear friends, dear friends of the AKP, you have been in power for 14 years. You can't protect the borders, our 900km of Syrian border has been turned, no telling who's in and out, all the terrorist organizations in the world are running around our country. In Ankara, we lost 168 citizens in three terrorist attacks in five months in the country's capital. In the heart of Diyarbakır, in the garrison, our flag is lowered, there is no voice. Our soldier's head is being put in a bag, and there's no sound, so it's like a musical note or something. As a former soldier and a 43-year-old physician, you are in a state of insensitivity that terrifies me. We've said it over and over again, 17 of our men have been under Greek occupation since 2009, and you've been silent. I'm amazed that in everything, our friends who are suing everyone in everything, we say that 17 islands are occupied and occupied by the land of the state. What are you doing? There's no sound. You are seriously incapable of protecting the safety of our citizens' lives and property. The Church has been bombed for 25 days. From the beginning, the rockets fell randomly in the sky. You said something like that. Now it's finally accepted that the rocket was launched. Your governor also says don't go on a visit from Abdestest. And those who rule this country, which is protected by the first National Liberation War against imperialism, are seeking aid from NATO, the United Nations and the United States. For where? To protect the church from ISIS rockets. Dear friends, I apologize to our disabled citizens, but I say to our eight and a half million disabled citizens, there is no good for you, brothers and sisters, from a government that cannot protect the lives of its citizens in the Church. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, your insensitivity is so vast that the ground you're stepping on is slipping beneath you, my dear brothers and sisters of the AKP, I sincerely say so. Whether you take this as a parliamentary warning, take it as a warning for a reader, take it as a citizen's warning, accept it however you like; look, you don't have a voice about things you need to be very sensitive about, friends. Getting up, the parliamentary system has been put on the shelf. It's called, it's quiet. I've been chosen, so the order of this country has changed whether you want it or not. It's called the Constitution, so you're ignored, you're silent. But according to that Constitution, we are all members of this Parliament. Again, there should be no secularism in the new constitution. You all know that secularism is the essential principle of democracy, which brings us all together under that roof and makes us speak on that bench. You're quiet again. Come on, you said two drunkards, let's say that's just an expression, that your friend, who you put on the floor of Parliament, founded the Republic. He says, "You're not talking again." For God's sake, I'm asking you seriously. Answer these questions, come here. I mean, how is it possible that your friend, who you put on the chair of Parliament, has founded this republic by heathens? It shows the inability to say, is that acceptable? [[Applause from CHP rows]] And, my dear friends, at last, in the budget talks, there is one who teaches us all leadership and accuses Kemal Kilicdaroglu of not being in control of his own group - and me, Mr. Davutoglu, does that much and so does the sergeant. The leadership is not to pass word to a certain number of people, but to make them listen to their voice. From this bench that I have responded to -- Your Prime Minister, who is being held by his ear and put in front of the door, is ours, and so is the Hodja. You say, "We are," and you walk away with great ease. Friends, we're all here by the vote given by the nation... the way you represent 23 million votes, the way our friends now represent 12 million votes, the votes of our friends, the votes of our friends in the ranks of the MHP... the votes of all of us are saints and saints, the votes of the citizens. How can you not respect that vote, how could you not? Now, I'm really having trouble understanding, you guys are looking for a low-profile Prime Minister. Guys, how can you eat that, swallow that, tolerate that? Republic of Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...what right do you have to defend the Prime Minister's office, my friends? How could you consent to such a thing? It's unacceptable, it's unacceptable.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0057par0495	You wouldn't understand.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0056par0496	And neither do you, my dear brother, nor do you. Get your friend who said that to you to take that back.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0058par0497	Shame on you. Mind your own business. Mind your own party business.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0056par0498	The seat of Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey is so unappreciative, so unappreciative.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0059par0499	Mr. Bozkurt, thank you. Mr. Bozkurt, your time is up.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0060par0501	▪ Don't get involved in domestic matters. They say.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0061par0502	Thank you very much, Mr. President. However, I'd appreciate it if you could pass along my offer to build an electronic platform here at a time when the President of the House is free from a struggle with secularism.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0062par0505	Mr. Bozkurt, I'm going to pass on the proposal for the electronic platform to the Speaker. Now, the second and final speaker against the group's proposal is Mr. Omar Fethi Gürer, Nüğde MP. Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Gürer. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0063par0510	Mr. President, the most valuable lawmakers were the way our AKP MP was brought in just a moment ago, summing up what was done in the week of the disabled -- as my deputy has just stated. I think it's helpful to start from here while you're criticizing others a little bit later. So we didn't even think about it, considering there's going to be a handicapped congressman here at the Turkish Grand National Assembly. In that sense, I'm going to announce the municipalities, public institutions in a little while, but I think we should start here. Dear MPs, we say a lot of things about disabled people, we make laws about it, there's a lot of paperwork, there's a lot of stuff that's said, but there's a lot of problems with it in the field of practice. I submitted a written question motion asking the Minister of Family and Social Policy to answer: How many of our 40 per cent and more disabled citizens are there to apply for social services directorates and issue a disabled identity card for themselves? I asked about the number of walking disableds in our country, the number of people who are able to use wheelchairs and electric chairs from walking disableds, how many people are in a state-wide position to expect wheelchairs, how many people are in a state-wide situation; how many visually impaired books are in our country, how many municipalities or institutionally disabled are reading units; how many vocational education and rehabilitation centres are available for the employment of the disabled; what is the distribution according to the provinces; and what is the number of vocational education and rehabilitation centers that are available in 2015, according to the Law of Business, according to the 3 per cent disabled employment regulations, according to the legal regulation of our country. I think these will be answered. Dear lawmakers, when we go to the regions, you are also reflected, and recently an application has begun, and the welfare foundation has gone to an income test for the disabled and the disabled report update. As a result, aid was cut off from our citizens who had been receiving help for years because they were disabled. The family's income is being assessed as a motive. However, the state does not take advantage of the disability's income, and the state does not take away its rights if it has a disability. That's a shame for me. I think this practice should be abandoned at once. Problems with accessibility in public institutions, schools, mosques, banks, roads, for people who use wheelchairs and visually impaired people continue throughout the country. In this sense, the matter must be taken seriously. I believe that if our citizen is still in a state of insensitivity to park his car in a wheelchair on the sidewalk, the public should be aware of it, and what is to be done must be adopted together. I've offered a law on deaf people. True, interpreters are available for deaf persons, but they must not wait for interpreters to express themselves in the deaf hospital, the formal institutions, the courts, and they must have interpreters at their transportation points, which means that they must have interpreters in hospitals, public institutions, where they can work. I visited the Blind Association at Niğde Altınokta, the association's on rent. I also think it's a wrong practice to have no place in public institutions and institutions to give them a place to keep their own associations open. Although there are studies of visually impaired people throughout our country, I think they're very limited. Make sure that the surfaces are not covered with special material, that they are affected by the heat, that they are shielded and that they are blind on the roads. You are bound to witness the problems of a few networks of transportation that are in trouble as they are called. So work should not be done to be done; this problem must be resolved in a way that is permanent, permanent, and that is for the disabled to be comfortable throughout their lives. I went to Niğde's Rooster Village on the weekend. Uncle Moses caught me, and he said, "Here's a battery, a wheelchair. We've got welfare foundation, we've got philanthropists. We're looking at TVs, newspapers, we're witnessing this kind of aid, but we don't get to the citizens in the village very much. These don't have to be advertising tools. If the Mukhtars are asked by the municipalities, the problems of these people will be overcome if they are generally benefited by each individual identified. Our wheelchair basketball team is in the promotional league in Niğde. I'm calling to congratulate the president. I was surprised to learn that they had a supply problem, a space problem. It's said that amateur sports clubs are being helped, but our Deafness Sports Club has a problem, and our Wheelchair Sports Club has a supply problem, and there's a space problem, and I'd like to bring it to the attention of the authorities for immediate repair. Also, I've mentioned here before my fellow resident, Sabat Varol Insel, who's volunteering for the visually impaired library. Friends, when some of our educated people spend as much time at the okay tables as they do, it's a social benefit if they go to the library and read audio books for the visually impaired. And I'd like to present this one more time to the attention of everyone who's usually watching us. My fellow lawmakers, when I traveled many times in the villages, I would have started to say, "My dear fellow citizens, forgive me, that's all it takes. [[Applause]] There's no limit to what's being done about these disabled people. Look, Eagle Mayor Op. Dr. After we established the Aditok Automated Unit, we worked out what to do about it. I was on that team, we were together. A study was established by the deaf orchestra. I wish you were all there the day that orchestra performed. When you meet with their emotions and you see them, you become a separate being because the hearing-impaired Orchestra is a job that's hard to think about, which is suspicious to do. But you should know that our disabled citizens have only physical barriers. Like us, they have the ability to think, to produce, to do what they're given, as long as they have the training they need. There's trouble in the field of education, there's trouble in the transportation area, but there's also what's being done. But it is our duty to inform you of the inadequacy of what has been done. We don't have any criticism of what's been done -- I've said it before -- that's what we've always supported. It doesn't matter who did it. Since the formation of the Republic of Turkey, there have been all sorts of things done, but we have to express the shortcomings that haven't been done. I think their solution is the Great National Assembly of Turkey. I say, in the village talks, when a citizen asks about terrorism, there has not been a hearing in the House on Terror once since I was elected a congressman. So I'm saying that even the only address for the solution to terrorism is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I'm saying. In this context, when we see the solution address for other problems, the Great National Assembly of Turkey, when we talk about them here, I think we'll take steps towards the outcome. Deputies, disabled, of course, different... sightings, wheelchair-related, like this, problems in different areas, problems. But let us not remember the disabled only during the week of the disabled. Just as one day is not enough for our mothers, the disabled must be in our lives, every moment. In communication with them, in relationships, in visits, I believe that each section has to have them in a different way. What we say on the week of the disabled of this period, I hope and hope, will be fulfilled next year when we say, if it is possible to come here. May the lives of all those who are disabled be good, and the future of their hearts be good. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0064par0531	Thank you, Mr. Gürer. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0065par0535	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, here, in Congress, of course, there are laws, proposals, proposals, motions. Our deaf citizens are part of this country. The Assembly's General Assembly really needs to learn that in sign language. In our penal code, sir, it says: "Not knowing the law is no excuse. " How will our citizens now learn this work? It's really a need in sign language, it has to be done here, absolutely. And this is my request from you, and this is where I ask all the MPs to be announced, and since it's the week of the disabled, I've just remembered it: there's a parking lot reserved for the disabled part of the House, my dear President. Our friends go there and park their cars where those disabled people are. Please announce this. The MPs must not park their vehicles in the area of the disabled. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0066par0539	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I would like to make this announcement on your behalf, of course. I would especially like to point out once again that our MPs shouldn't park in the handicapped parking lot in Parliament. I'd also like to point out that I'm meeting with the Speaker of the House to establish that system you're expressing for the deaf. Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Congressmans, I'd like to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0067par0549	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit01spe0066par0550	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit02spe0066par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 87th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The resolution of the National Party for Action Group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Advisory Board on Tuesday/05/2006 (now) there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 12 April 2016, Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan and his friends (a rank 1711) suggested that the parliamentary inquiry motion given to the Turkish Parliament to investigate the problems of retired citizens was taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the same date in the presentations of the talks on Tuesday (April 10/5/2016). The first speaker in favour of the People's Democratic Party's group proposal is Mr. Nimethullah Erdoğ... But Mr. Erdoğmu is currently absent from the General Assembly. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0066par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 87th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, in favor of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, the first speaker was Diyarbakır MP Nimethullah Erdoğ. Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Erdoğ. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0068par0006	Mr. President, very dear MPs, Mr. President, I would like to congratulate you on Mother's Day, and I would like to express to you that the best reward is a true peace that the Reverend Zevat here will offer them. Dear lawmakers, I'm going to try and share with you the views of my retirement rights party during the time assigned to me. When rights are taken for good, of course, we all agree that some improvements to pensioners today aren't really enough. Because, in our country, there is a pensioner population in the world, perhaps more than in the population of many countries, and in general, these retired citizens have a major impact on their rights. You can appreciate that the ability of an individual to be healthy depends on the sound, healthy work of the heart that sustains it. The fact that a society can also be a healthy society depends on social justice in that society to function in the same way as the heart does. If social justice isn't healthy in a society, there's no talking about the health of the community. Social justice provides equality above all; it ensures equality, fighting for equality, and reaching that awareness of equality. If we have a poor report card on inequality, there's not a lot of compensation for us talking about justice, equality, social justice. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to continue with a story about this equality. It's the first time a traveler has traveled to one of our hometowns. He wanted to visit certain parts of the country to satisfy his curiosity. As he was traveling, he suddenly saw the crowd running to one side, wondering if something had happened, and he started running that way. When he arrived at the scene, he saw that people had gathered around a man in a ring, and he was in the ground, as if he were beating himself to the ground, screaming and screaming in great pain. Because he's the first one to watch and watch a little bit, there's a man dying here, and we're losing a life in plain sight. It's almost like you're watching a movie here, and you're watching this guy right now. He's objecting in the form of a movie. They say, "What should we do?" We need to take him to the hospital immediately. A person with experience says: "You must be a stranger to this country, let me tell you the truth of the matter. Since this Zat eats too much, forgive him, for not knowing the value of his own prosperity, for he is spoiled in wealth, and cures himself with such pains. He is surprised, of course, to leave it to another land, where the country is, let's say, the slums of the country. When I see the same landscape there, I think I'm going to see a full, well - fed human landscape here, not in an exciting way anymore, but in a normal way, just like the audience there, he's going to see it, but he's come across a strange view. And he saw that there was a man on the earth, striking him on the ground, and he was left without food or thirst, and he was bones. He's surprised, he turns to the person next to him and says, "Oh, I'm sorry. Is this man uncomfortable eating too much, and that's how he's expressing his discomfort here?" They say, "No." There is a difference between the custom of that country you saw and the custom of our country. We've got people here starving. The person you're seeing is screaming and screaming and screaming on the ground because nothing's in his stomach. When he leaves, he says: "The thing called social justice means that what this man eats is the one that never eats. If he takes a fair hand and does that, he will heal from it. Because one of them eats too much, and the other one doesn't eat at all, injustices take its course. Dear friends, very dear Regents, when we use Islamic rhetoric as we speak, our words speak very freely, but what is essential is the reflection of religion in social life. Look, there's a chapter in the Qur'an called Surah of Maun, which was written in the second year of the Prophet, or prophethood, a very brief chapter. If you have time, please, we have read it again, but let's read it. We will see that man's worship, man's worship, man's faith, the measure of man's piety depends on that compassion, that compassion, that justice in society. If that kind of responsibility has not been fulfilled in society, our statements are just -- I say this to you, to myself, to myself -- a demonstration, a display, an expression. With these feelings and thoughts, right-based, at the point where all of our problems are resolved, he proposes that the rights of our pensioners be re-controversized by this Parliament and held to a level that pleases them; I salute you all, I entrust to Allah.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0069par0014	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğ. Against the group's proposal, Mr. Salim Beslim...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0070par0017	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the advice of the HDP Group. I hereby salute the High Council. Right at the beginning of my speech, I salute all mothers and martyr mothers and wives, mother candidates, and, of course, our female deputies. I pay my respects for Mother's Day. Also, I give thanks to those who died a month ago, especially my beloved mother, who died a month ago, God's mercy, and to the living. We consider all mothers of compassion and compassion to be our precious beings. The poet says: "We have learned that two things never leave: one is the wound in the mother's heart, the other is the wound in the heart. " Yes, I want to express on this occasion that I believe that the civilization of compassion and compassion should be more sensitive to not making our mothers cry. During the group proposals meeting earlier, a member of our parliament told the disabled not to park their cars, and Mr. President has expressed his warnings. I'm just saying I agree. On this occasion, I would like to point out that as Congress, we have initiatives as Speakers of Parliament to install the electric wheelchair charge stations. I'd like to share this with you on this occasion. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we continue to stand by our nation in sickness, in health, in youth and in old age. With our social security reforms, we have 98% of our population under social security umbrellas. We've finished returning from the hospital doors. We have provided that our citizens receive services from all health care agencies with only ID documents. We've facilitated access to the drug, cut off the pharmaceutical lines. During our rule, we also made serious improvements in our pensioners' financial and social rights. We've raised pensioners' living standards, increased their expendable income significantly, and we're continuing to increase them. We have had significant increases in our pensions in our power. In July 2015, we increased our pensions to 100 liras for those under a thousand lira from the SEC and BUG-KUR pensions. We've also evened the monthly rates of those between $1,000 and $1.100 a month at $1.100 a month. We have increased pensions by an average of $100 from September 2015 to 6.9% in January 2016. In addition to the increase of 3.8 per cent in January 2016, the pensions of all SSC and BUG-KUR pensioners, including those who have already benefited from the increase we made in December 2015 -- including those who took advantage of the increase in September. Dear President, dear lawmakers, we've made sure we don't get our pensioners crushed by inflation. During our minimum pension period, the USSR increased by 403 per cent to $1.292 lira. The lowest officer's pension increased by 330 per cent to $1,618. The lowest BUG-KUR tradesman's pension increased by 678 per cent to $1,157. The lowest BUG-KUR farmer's pension increased by 1.297 per cent to $919. For the record, I've expressed the odds to express the fact that there are significant increases in people who want to compare to inflation from 2002 to today. Only between January 2015 and January 2016, pensions increased by 25 per cent to 57 per cent. These increases are known to our officer, our tradesman, our worker, our minimum wage, our pensioner, everyone knows, and everyone appreciates what they're doing. During our rule, we raised minimum wage 606.1 per cent and raised it to $1,300 in net since 1 January 2016. So we've actually raised the minimum wage by 126.3% since 2002. We've been raised wages for 65-year-old people -- up 788 per cent. In addition, all family revenues for 65-year-olds were being taken into account, but we came up with a new method of computation based solely on the income of your husband and wife on a new arrangement that we made about 15 or 20 days ago on April 26, 2016. We think it would be much more fair. A 10% cut of social security benefits from the pensions of those who continue to work after the age or pension has been tied up has been removed by the arrangement we've made. According to this, the insurance coverage of those whose pensions and pensions have been cut from their monthly social security benefits due to their work as tradesmen has been terminated as of January 29th. Another issue that we will benefit from more than 11 million of our pensions is bank promotions. Talks between our Ministry of Labor and Social Security and the banks are about to be concluded, and we'll soon be able to get our pensioners promoted. We also run our retirement projects by the head of the Public Housing Administration for our pensioners. Projects are being produced in each required province, depending on the appropriate conditions. Currently 40 separate cities and projects run 7.681 housing studies for our pensioners. We're moving rapidly towards a financially sustainable social security system target. The social security deficit is estimated to be at 28.46 per cent in 2002, at 4.94 per cent in 2015, and 4.9 per cent in 2016. So we're moving fast towards the equivalent budget. The equivalent budget is also a social justice budget. There's a problem with pensioners. Again, it's a law prepared by social agreement. Retirement age, you know, is 58 in women, 60 in men. There is a problem with the method of computing, and that problem has been dealt with significantly with by the principle law. We've also done important work on the equality of pensions that differed due to changes in the monthly method of computing. On the other hand, with Law 6283 of 2012, we were able to adapt to disability, old age and death monthlys, which were linked to the indicator system prior to 2000. That's how pre-2000 pensions are compatible with the post-2000 monthly binding system. Of course, life is extremely dynamic and goes on. Since life is going on dynamically, it would be wrong to wait for further problems to end by diversification. Of course, our job should be to take measures against growing problems and to increase the well-being of our pensioners, who have contributed to the development of this country while working. In this final chapter of my word, we have a lot of work to do for our pensioners, in addition to what's been done. First of all, they have union demands. I believe that in a short period of time, important work will be done, steps will be taken to ensure that the union membership of the trade unions they have been members of in the line of work will continue, just as in the developed countries. In response to Mr. Erdoğmiş, the Diyarbakır MP who just spoke, I would like to say that we believe that not all equality is justice, that it is not justice; rather than equality, we believe that it is right to defend justice, and on this occasion, we have carried out our work as a means of bringing justice to justice. On this occasion, I have briefly shared with you some of the work done. With all these positive developments, I say that we are against the HDP group proposal, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0071par0038	Thank you, Mr. Goody. Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0072par0040	I have a brief request, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0071par0041	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0072par0044	Mr. President, from the state of the House and the agenda of the ruling party today, they didn't bring a group of proposals, and tomorrow there are international agreements. We're at the end of a process where we've been working day and night for two months, waiting for support from the opposition for visa exemption, not the AKP criteria, but when it comes to EU criteria, the opposition parties are positive about it, and they're swimming and coming in line. There are only a few deals left, Mr. President, but this has described your approach to visa exemption with the European Union as one of their own. Of course, when the following criticism came, those who lost their lives in the Aegean after the agreement were cut as a knife, the Aylan babies who washed up on the shore. After Mr. President's statement, a significant risk has arisen. After seeing that risk, he says, "Let Europe do it." In order for the European Union to carry out its requirements, it must pass those agreements that the European Union has been waiting for. He's using the deal on counterterrorism as an excuse, but we know it's got extradition and especially corruption regulations in it. We think all arrangements must be passed, and the CHP is prepared to make this contribution day and night. If this is about the fight against terrorism, let him bring it, let the transparency of politics, the extradition of corruption and criminals pass immediately, and then if he's going to negotiate the fight against terrorism with Europe. But it seems with this suggestion from the President that the AKP Group abandoned the vision of visa exemption from the European Union free movement after a vision of full membership in the European Union. In this regard, the will of the CHP and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...I present to the public the state of the AKP. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0073par0049	Thank you, Mr. Special. Members of parliament, the second speaker in favour of Peoples' Democratic Party group proposal is Mr Selin Sayek Böke. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0074par0056	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, our esteemed citizens who are watching us on television, I salute you all. Turkey has been imprisoned for trivia. In this mediocrity where he was imprisoned, he was imprisoned in what was described as being called the "turak" and as if he had to fall into it. There's talk of a middle income trap. The recipe for this trap is that after you work and work and move your income to $10,000, I can't get over $10,000. So much so that the ruling approach, which puts aside the will to reform, aside from reforming, to try to throw away all the reforms that have been made, has trapped Turkey in this inefficiency trap. Since 2008, Turkey has been tired; working, struggling, sweating, but never getting paid for its hard work. In 2008, Turkey's income exceeded $10,000, and seven years later, almost eight years later, following all these fatigues, Turkey faces an economic picture today that it cannot be compensated for. Turkey lives on an income that goes down to $9,000. It's not just an economic scheme that doesn't pay off its efforts, it's a laborer and a pensioner who's condemned to this mediocrity. So this mid-income trap also creates a medium-income trap. Economic gains that have emerged and been created by all this effort are being channeled to just one section. So Turkey is not only trapped in a middle income trap, it's also trapped in a middle income trap. There's a lot of concrete data on this trap. Turkey's wealth distribution shows that in 2002, 1 per cent of society had 39 per cent of the emerging wealth. Citizens of Turkey, who have worked, worked, worked, and worked for eight years, have been deprived of wealth, as well as of this effort. In 2002, one percent of the population had 39 per cent of the wealth, while in 2016 it had 54 per cent of the same wealth. So the unrequited citizen is also deprived of the distribution of wealth and is excluded from the economy under the name of a trap by those who sit on it. As a result of the change in income distribution, Turkey is not only competing with itself, it is condemned to be among the mediocre countries worldwide. Turkey is among the first three countries to have the worst income distribution in the number of revenue distributions published by OECD (OECD). Turkey is described as an economy that can't create revenue, can't share its income equally, can't repay the effort, and is a mediocrity system. This mediocrity shows up when he retires as he does when he's working. According to April 2016, the hunger limit of a family of four is $1,387, the number you need to avoid starvation. The poverty limit is $4,518. Millions of our pensioners live in a system where they don't even get paid on the poverty line, not even on the poverty line, so they don't get paid when they're a laborer or when they're retired. For this, the Republican People's Party shouted that a double salary should be given to 11 million Turkish pensioners before 7 June, and to a pensioner of Turkey's 17 million poor. He also said that not only as an economic policy, but as a social phenomenon so that we can have holidays around our pensions, around a table. We were accepted by this couple's bonus policy, even if it was half-assed, but the government, which lacks a complete policy, chose to do it in a way that would be able to manage this policy with a 100-dollar salary increase, and because it didn't make it whole, it never considered justice between pensioners, so that the officer deserved to raise wages to pensioners and pensioners at different times. However, all of Turkey's pensioners have worked hard and sweated hard for years to get the same rights. We continue to fight before June 7th to create a system where they can get their rights fairly. This small increase to the pensioners since September 2015 was given to our other pensioners only after January 2016. So the laborer doesn't get what he deserves, nor does he get what is fair in an order where equality can be achieved between workers. So that even when the laborer has worked for years, and is now retired and enjoying his life, he has to work even when he retires because he is trapped under the age of hunger and poverty. FROM each 100 pensioners, 33 have to continue to work, according to TÜİK data. That is because they will have to come out of that incarceration by creating miracles. There is no other right to be offered to them. 30 percent of those who retire and continue to work are over 65 years old. So now that I've given my bread, I'm going to live my life, I'm going to sit with my grandchildren. We're talking about workers and pensioners who are condemned to work at their age. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The workers don't get paid for their hard work in time. They are sentenced to retirement at much lower wages and salaries than they can afford. Turkey urgently needs a new wage policy. This price policy is stuck between two people's two lips, and I've given you $1,300, so relax. It's not a minimum wage approach, it's really possible for an economic arrangement where the worker's rights can be rewarded. (HPP) After providing these increases, we must also defend pensioners who are sentenced to far lower incomes than the income they receive while working even in the current order. For that, we, the Republican People's Party, have said that pensioners should take advantage of the increase in national income, and we will continue to say so. Our struggle has to be the struggle of workers and pensioners. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We said there were new inequalities created, let alone efforts to resolve this inequality between pensioners. But let's not forget, in every election, there's a law of principle that doesn't hesitate to talk about the inequality that exists. Here, you have the power, let's get the principle law out today. [[Applause from CHP rows]] People who have paid the same bonus, spent the same day of service, who have done the same work, are never allowed to receive a different pension without equal. The social security system needs to be handled as a whole, and within that integrity, we need to make a correction in Turkey in a way that treats everyone equally. It's unrealistic, of course, to expect that, because there's no structure or framework of reform that comes to any kind of political integrity. If you don't treat this as a whole, then I'll give something to one group, and tomorrow I'll give it to the others when the election arrives. You'll be saying, "Ooh, you're not putting any politics beyond saving yourself." We have pensioners who don't crawl through hospital doors, but when they come back from the hospital door, they see their salary melted with their contribution. So much so that there's a silence in the struggle to remove medical and drug participation and difference fees. Our pensioners don't get their full salary for almost any month. This arrangement must be made urgently because according to TİK figures, more than half of our pensions have been compromised. We want to build a Turkey where 11 million pensioners deserve a happy and peaceful life. Let us not forget that the group proposal that the MPP had just made regarding the disabled has been rejected by your votes. You never know when someone's gonna be disabled. Now we're discussing an arrangement for pensioners. You never know when someone's gonna retire. Just a few days ago, the Prime Minister of this country retired. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0075par0074	We took power from the general manager who couldn't pay the pensioner.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0076par0075	Thank you, Mr. Böke. The second and final speaker against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal is Mr. Yilmaz Tezcan.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0077par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you from Mersin. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge against the group proposal given by the HDP Group regarding the problems of retired citizens. I hereby salute you with respect, with love, with respect, with love, with the honor of our citizens of Mersin, our country, and all our pensioners. Before I begin my remarks, especially because of Mother's Day, I congratulate the mothers of my very dear female paralegal friends, the mothers of my CHP MP friends, the mothers of HDP, the MP and the mothers of all my fellow MPs, the mothers of their mothers and mothers-in-law. My fellow lawmakers, I also -- you know -- I'm celebrating Engels week this week, and I'm hereby celebrating the week of the disabled. Hopefully, from now on, I hope they'll have a life in our country, free of obstacles, unstoppable from the obstacles of our citizens, both in traffic accidents and in some kind of trouble. My dear friends, the youngest population of Europe is in our country. According to the 2015 SGK data, nearly 10 million of our citizens receive pensions from the state. This figure shows that the number of pensioners in Turkey is greater than the total population of many European countries. As EC PARTI governments, we have considered the work of our retired citizens, who make up about 12 per cent of the country's population and who have worked for our country for years in each sector, to be our primary roles in improving living standards, and we have done so many important work so far. Since 2002, we have made arrangements for all our retired citizens. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to share these with you. In this regard, structural reforms were especially implemented. We've implemented social security reform and general health insurance. In the same way, the labor-esnaph-service division has been terminated. A financially sustainable system has been established. Structural change and economic stability gave pensioners a share that would increase prosperity with a growing capacity. Just now, my dear President Salim Good sir has shared some numbers with you here. Of course, numbers never lie. So I felt the need to reshape some numbers with you from here. Because, given the numbers we've just been given, we've shared these numbers with all of our citizens, all of our pensioners, very publicly, in the work we've done so far as the AK PARTY government. Dear friends, I'd like to share with you that we raised the lowest SSC pension of 257 euros in 2002 to 1.144 Turkish liras, the lowest SSC pension of 216 liras, to 1.116 Turkish liras, to 1.16% Turkish liras, and the lowest pension of the BUG-KUR pension of the pensions, which was $148 last year, to 1.014 Turkish liras. We also raised the pension of BUG-KUR, 66 Turkish liras in 2002, to 784 Turkish liras, with an increase of 1,092 per cent. In 2002, we raised the minimum pensioner's salary, with 376 Turkish liras, to $1,513 Turkish liras, with a 302 per cent increase in 2015. Congressmans, dear friends, considering the total inflation growth in 2003-2015 is 203 per cent, these figures show that inflation growth in some months has increased by 5 times more. This is a clear indication of a policy that allows our pensioners to get more out of prosperity. Our pensioners are no longer waiting in the payroll. When we look back on our short memory, we've all seen our retired uncles, grandmothers, sisters, brothers and sisters lose their lives, their lives, their lives, their lives, in the line of some chronic illness, unfortunately, and unfortunately, we've all been sad. But thanks to you, during the AK PARTI rule, our pensioners now receive pensions from their homes. We've started apps like the home pay system that make things easier. Our pensioners are now able to benefit from all kinds of health care, including doctoring. We, the AK PARTY Governments, the AK PARTY Group, are proud of it. In July, we started paying 100 lira a month to all pensioners whose pension was less than a thousand liras a year. After the November 1st elections, we also provided additional 1,200 Turkish liras a year for workers and retired workers. We've completely eliminated the social security benefits cut from the pension of our BUG-KUR-insurance tradesman. My fellow lawmakers, not only are we done with this, but we've done the services and the legal arrangements that we've made. What else have we done? There were some problems with Petty Officer pensioners. At this point, we have increased pensions by allowing non-starters to rise to the 1st degree and to benefit from 3600 additional indicators. We have important arrangements and very important work, such as receiving promotions from banks where pensioners receive pensions, such as the fact that our retired citizens are co-operating with the TOİKİ (TİKİ) in order to make it easier for them to have a home under extremely suitable circumstances, paying only 250 Turkish lira per month. My fellow lawmakers, our fellow congressmen, we have MPs who are doctors among our friends. We know that once the physicians retire, unfortunately, they work for other health services to sustain their lives. But, as the AK PARTY government, hopefully, with the arrangements we're going to make in the coming period, we'll also be making significant salary increases in our retired doctors. Retired, age-wise, to us, some are our fathers, some are our mothers, some are our sisters, some are our brothers' age, some are our grandparents' age. We all hope that we can reach that age in health, health, pleasure, and hope for it. Respect for our pensioners, our elders, is a sign of the respect the next generation will show us. My fellow lawmakers, as it turns out, since 2002, during the AK PARTI administrations, we have acted on the basic principle of building rights and sustainable balance between employees, employers and pensioners while developing the social security system, and we will continue to work, work, work, think about our pensioners. In light of this information, the HDP declares that we are against the group proposal, and I salute you and all the pensioners in our country with respect, love, conversation.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0078par0097	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. I will submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0079par0099	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0078par0100	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All in favor... Those who don't agree... The decision is sufficient, the proposal is not accepted. Congressmans, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Tuesday/05/2016 (now), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On October 10, 2015, Ankara MP Murat Emir and his friends proposed a parliamentary survey of Turkey's Parliamentary Assembly, which was issued on 21/04/2016 to investigate the negligence of intelligence units and law enforcement forces for the terrorist attack on the peace rally in front of Ankara Station (October 10, 2015). lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations on Tuesday 10/05/2016, and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. The first speaker in favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is Ankara MP Murat Emir.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0080par0114	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Seven months ago today, in a rally on the behalf of peace and democracy in front of Ankara Station on October 10th, two live bombs were dropped among the tens of thousands waiting to enter the rally site ahead of Ankara Station, killing 103 of our citizens and injured more than 500. This is a very serious situation, and the Republic is one of the bloodiest massacres our history has ever seen. We find it useful to remember those days a little. The June 7th elections had been held, you had set out as 400 MPs, but you weren't even given 276 deputies, and you were only 20 days away from the November 1st election. In the meantime, give me 400 deputies, and let this be resolved in peace. We remember what you said as if it were yesterday. First you shut up, then the nation chose chaos. You said. At first, everyone didn't understand what you meant by chaos, but soon we understood what you meant by paying heavy prices as a whole country and as a whole society. In those days, there had not been chaos, mass murder, bombings, our country hadn't turned into a pool of blood, our martyrs weren't coming every day, but in a way, it was clear that we had to prepare this chaos. On the road to November 1st, you slowly began to lay the stones. Without terrorizing him, without terrorizing the entire country, the great master realized that it was impossible to capture power. If he had received 400 MPs and received a number that would have changed the Constitution, it would still have been different from what he said today. On the way to November 1st, you saw that our people weren't agitated enough, that the country wasn't terrorized enough, that the country couldn't turn into a whole pool of blood, and you realized that your votes were inadequate. However, you couldn't hide your joy after the explosion, so let's remember what Mr. Prime Minister said: we did a survey after the terrorist attack in Ankara, and there's a certain trend in our votes. You didn't even blush. Moreover, after June 7th, he left politics, and on November 1st, we hope that our nation will make a decision that will not allow us to experience what we have experienced. In those days, you were intimate with ISIS, and your paths had not yet departed. The weapons you sent to ISIS had not yet begun to fall into the Church. In a single sentence, ISIS is clearly a terrorist organization. You couldn't even describe it, you couldn't blame it; they were angry children for you. Still, after the attack, you refrained from openly accusing ISIS and setting goals. Remember the Prime Minister's gift to our political literature: it's a cocktail attack. Of course, Mr. President won't back down, he said: "DAEŞ, PKK, parallel structure, Al Communications, jointly, collective action. " At that time, with information we didn't know where it came from, Turkey wanted to be kidnapped from the public, ISIS wanted to be kidnapped from our eyes, and you didn't even hear ISIS. However, it turns out today that the terrorist organization here is ISIS, and ISIS is no longer protected. So, the attack on October 10th, the explosion, the massacre took place in such an environment. We know very well that there were severe negligence in the event. There's a possibility there may even be possible castes. So, we've moved this motion to the agenda of the House. See, the Home Office inspectors have prepared a preliminary review report. In fact, this report is a confession, and it was very clear in our press. It's clear here that even though the government is intelligence, it's turned a blind eye and it hasn't done its part. How do we know? We know from the report. We know very well that you know about the bomb from the reports provided by the intelligence report on Yunus Emre Alagöz. According to the intelligence report, it was reported to the head of the TEM Bureau, the head of the Anti-Terror Bureau, but the police officer there didn't need to report it to their superiors. However, it is well known that this person -- also Abdurrahman is the brother of Alagöz, the perpetrator of the Suruç massacre -- has been lawful with his family. It was ignored when it was an obvious fact. Why didn't you inform your superiors? The answer to the question was very interesting; he did so because it might have a negative psychological effect on the staff. Again, the report states that information on why DEAŞ could commit a live bomb operation is important, that it should be investigated through the judiciary as to why it was not shared with the TEM branch office, but you know that the front of the judicial path was first closed by the governorship, then by the state's attorney's office. In the same way, see, they're constantly talking to Inspired Bali, and they're being followed by technique, and they're being ignored. Tuncay Kaya, also known as ISIS's bomber, is released 11 days before the explosion, and is being sought as a suspected activist shortly after the explosion. If they're not neglectful, if they're not failure to do their duty, they're a clear lack of seriousness. This chain of neglect doesn't end here, my dear friends, they're having an evaluation meeting, and they say to the security forces: "Save yourselves in some way." Look, this is the headline in the newspapers again. Think about it, the police officers who should protect the people and protect those who attend the rally there. They say, "Save yourselves. " Investigators ask: Why did you do that? Why, they say you didn't need to protect the people? They say, he says, "It wasn't the actions of the HDP, it was the organizations of the NGOs, so we didn't need it." In this way, there are statements in the official report of the state. Friends with no road apps, can you imagine? In technical pursuit, this person has been lawful with his family, his brother has previously exploded in Suruç. Everyone knows that they belong to the Documist group, and whatever happens when he enters Ankara, execution is stopped on the road, and after the person passes by, the execution begins again on the road at nine o'clock, which is at nine o'clock. Dear friends, therefore, Turkey needs to do a detailed research into why information has been ignored regarding such a heavy massacre, why the concerned have not done their duty, and why the responsible ones have been found. Because we've just stated that this investigation was not granted by the governor's office, and the state's attorney's office has not used its right to appeal. Therefore, it is now the duty of our great Council. Of course, are you going to make it clear here that the AKP Group has to decide, that you're going to contribute to the discovery of all the responsible here through research, or are you going to let that be covered up? If you are not contributing to the enlightenment of this crime, you must remember that you are a partner in this crime. [[Applause from CHP rows]] See, the inspector's report says: "There are sufficient signs and public benefits, look into it." To ignore this is no longer a situation for consciences to accept, my friends. So what do you do? There are explosions like this, the first thing that's done is to remove the police commissioner from his post, but it's not over because there's another explosion on February 17th, and you're taking back the chief of police. Well, it doesn't end, the explosion doesn't end in Ankara. There's another explosion on March 13th, and you're taking him off duty. Where's the political responsibility for this? Only the chief of police is in charge here? Dear friends, we pay this price as a whole society, especially because of the Syrian policy of the AKP, you've brought the distress, terror, terrorist organizations to a point in our country where they've been deployed, acting, and taking control over our country. The Peace and Solidarity Association was founded on October 10th, and today these were our visitors, the families of the wounded, the relatives of the deceased. They're demanding a monument to Ankara Station, they're asking for legal help because they're being crushed under their tuition money. We have to focus on their problems as soon as possible. So, your decision here says that in the light of this bloody act and a bright Turkey will contribute greatly to the way we're going to build, I give you my regards, and I wish you good work.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0081par0133	Thank you, Mr. Emir. Against the group's proposal, Mr. Nuri Okutan, MP of Isparta. Here you go, Mr. Reader. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0082par0138	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Party Party Group on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the parliamentary inquiry motion for the bomb attack launched on Ankara Station on October 10, 2015. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, during the EC PARTY, terror descended from the mountains to the cities, and the capital, Ankara, has finally become the target of a series of treacherous bombings one after another. On 10 October 2015, after the bombing at Ankara Station, the security and intelligence weakness came to light, but the government's authorities failed to grasp the seriousness of the incident and were unable to take the necessary measures, followed by a painful bomb attack. On February 17, 2016, security and intelligence were resurfaced following the treacherous attack on the service vehicles of our security forces and many martyrs, Prime Minister Davutoglu made the following statement following his briefing in Ankara Governorate: A special security mechanism and an action plan will be prepared to monitor Ankara's responsibility for the capital, as well as for the security measures related to Turkey's general security measures. Following this meeting, the Ministry of Interior's March 8th edition was issued and implemented. Following the attack on military service vehicles in Ankara on February 17th, measures agreed on during security meetings held by Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu were asked to increase the necessary measures, but I regret to inform you that following this statement, a new bombing took place on March 13, 2016 in the capital city of Ankara, Kızılay. Again, many of our innocent people have been brutally murdered. It's obvious by gathering, by briefing, by taking the general word out, by destroying terror and preventing bombings. We've said it before, and there's the state of the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, which is exactly what it's about to coordinate. We couldn't feel the weight and difference of this institution. Day-to-day policies are impossible to combat terrorism. I regret to inform you that the same policies that power has developed to overcome its flaw are also found in the field of counterterrorism. In the event of a security and intelligence weakness or a potential failure, the defect is immediately linked to someone else. Information leaked from within the police, lack of coordination in the system that monitors stolen vehicles, or the lack of action of MOBESE cameras, escapes responsibility by hiding behind excuses. All this talk, as the ancients call it, is worse than anything else. People have chosen you to fight the government's structures within the state and the separatist terrorist organization that targets the integrity of the state. In all these bombings and so-called errors in the solution process, those with negligence and flaws had to be found and accounted for; those responsible had to be found, at least the political responsible had to do what needed to be done. Over the course of time, those in charge of security and intelligence have not left their posts or been relieved of their duties. At this point, was it Mr. Davutoglu who left or was relieved of duty? Now, we ask this rightly: is there any role in all these terrorist policies behind Mr. Davutoglu's departure? Mr. Davutoglu, has he been relieved of duty due to contact with the PKK, the PYD and the organisations in Syria, or has he been dismissed for kidnapping Süleyman Shah Turbesi along with the organisation? We're talking about the bombings in Ankara, and we want the responsible to answer and be enlightened by these massacres. However, the situation of Special Ops head Behcet Oktay, which appears to have been assassinated, has yet to be illuminated. In the days of the capital explosions, the United States Embassy had previously warned its citizens about the explosions, as if it had been reflected in the press, where it had given the province's address. The US Embassy then issued a new statement stating that the intelligence was not theirs, that they were informing their own citizens about the intelligence received from the Turkish authorities. Now we have to ask: What was our government doing when the United States warned its citizens with our intel? What were the authorities engaged in? Wasn't the safety of our citizen's lives and property as important as the citizens of the United States? Of course it matters. So, again, what did our government and officers do? We are witnessing that those who are sorely neglectful in the process of resolving the bill, those who have made it even heavier for our nation, are rewarded. Today, public officials who neglected to store the weapons and bury the bombs are still in charge. What's worse than all of this is that the bombs that went off were said by Mr. Prime Minister Davutoglu that the Justice and Development Party increased their vote. Here, all these acts and massacres have been created as if they were targeting the Justice and Development Party, not our whole nation, but the power of the Justice and Development Party, which is a complete inadequacy, shortsightedness, and political self-interest. We're looking at a painting where our borders are riddled with holes, where bombers entering our country dressed as refugees can reach the heart of the capital. We ask clearly: Why were all these live bombs not caught until they arrived in Ankara? The stolen vehicle involved in the bombings was never caught on camera? If he was captured, why wasn't he followed and neutralized? Why has it been decided that public officials with flaws and negligence in all these cases do not need to be investigated? Then who is the culprit? Dear lawmakers, the Justice and Development Party's ruling in the fight against terrorism is confused. Interagency coordination has been lost, cooperation and sharing of information has been eliminated, and even within the institutions there have been differences of opinion and opinion. Instead of fighting terrorism, we're all in the nation paying the heavy bill for the failed, ill-fledged policies of the Justice and Development Party, which chose the method of negotiating with terrorists in the process of a so-called solution. As in the yellow ox story, the day we gave up the fight against terrorism and negotiated with the terrorist, we gave up the yellow ox and lost. We lost the day we thought there would be a solution by negotiating with the separatist organization that's been bleeding our country for years. We lost contact with organizations in Syria, the PYD and the El Nusra extensions. As our elders say: "The blind one gets cross-eyed, and the black one who sits next to the black one gets black. " What happened to your approach to the Middle East without knowing us? You know about the leaves, but you don't know about the terrorists? Dear lawmakers, terrorism is a crime of humanity, and its solution concerns all mankind. Thus, international mechanisms should be set in motion in the fight against terrorism, and international cooperation should be focused in this area. It is important to strengthen intelligence in the fight against terrorism, to coordinate interagency, to use technology-sponsored analysis systems. Geocrime maps, crime zones and times must be analyzed well, and dynamic policies should be implemented to prevent personnel from being frustrated by duty. High-tech technology, such as license recognition, facial recognition systems, should be used effectively, and information obtained should be coordinated from one centre. The most effective fight against the terrorist organization is to do intelligence-backed operations. Those who give instructions to these actions must be followed by effective intelligence as well as by the bombing. The fight against terrorism requires sincerity, determination, consistency. The fight against terrorism requires that the relevant institutions work in harmony and harmony with each other within a clock system. This is the greatest deterrent of terrorism. With these thoughts and feelings, on behalf of myself and the National Party of Action, I salute and salute you all.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0083par0155	Thank you, Mr. Reader. Second speaker in favour of the group's proposal, İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0084par0159	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, yes, on October 10th, we had a very serious, very serious massacre in Ankara, which I myself witnessed, and from this massacre, which was actually brought to life, not to life, but to this massacre and to the Ankara massacre. For example, in Hatay, where the most peaceful, smiling people in the country, the ISIS militants were put into hospitals and treated; despite all the warnings, the Dokumists, who were not touched, joined ISIS. You're not only responsible for the massacre, in fact, what you did later, legally or politically, because you're in power and what's in power has responsibility. The state has an obligation to prevent, it has a positive responsibility, and the law has a response. Therefore, you will not be able to get rid of this responsibility by simply removing one police officer. After the massacre, people were sprayed with gas. After the massacre, there were not enough ambulances, so special vehicles moved wounded to hospitals. After the massacre, people tried to identify the bodies scattered in front of the hospital in Ankara, in the morgue, under two-tenths of an exploding lamp. Six morgue sites were later built, and they were taken inside the tent, where they tried to be diagnosed in a more human environment -- in a nail. There was no psychological aid, no solidarity, just the Red Moon delivering a soup, that's all. But the best thing to do was to get a funeral done, and it's done really well. We lost 101 citizens in the Ankara massacre, and more than 500 survived the blast. President Erdogan invented the word "terrorism cocktail" to make the waters even more muddy in the assessment of the massacre, and it was created to avoid the truth, to not point to the truth, to not say "Ishid. " Despite these grave statements from the top officials of the state, the truth couldn't be hidden. In the process, major scandals arose in the preliminary inspection reports and additions of investigators involved in the attacks. Twenty-five days before the explosion, it was revealed that ISIS had been received intel that it would act on multiple live bombs at the rally, but that information had not been delivered to the security branch director who had taken measures for the rally. The report said that police chief, TEM, security and intelligence branch managers at that time, would also have to be investigated for negligence. Despite its opinion, the governor's office did not grant permission to investigate the staff. The report added that from January 1, 2015 to October 10, 2015, police and MIT have 62 separate intelligence notes on live bomb attacks. According to the picture prepared by the investigators, the last intelligence note included the name of the live bomb, Yunus Alagöz, the brother of the Suruç bomber. This intelligence was actually delivered to the police on the morning of October 10th, and it was known by the police, so it was known that the Ankara massacre was going to take place. Therefore, you are legally and politically responsible. Yes, we all know that there have been many massacres -- Sururic, Reyhanlı, Diyarbakır, Sultanahmet, Ankara. Who do you want us to target? You've been running this country for 14 years, and I sincerely want to ask you, who is responsible for all of this as a government that has a legal obligation to prevent it? Do not make the courts, stadiums, mosques, palaces huge; let us magnify justice, equality, peace, humanity. Against those people who died seeking peace, the government and the government will never, ever, ever repay their responsibility otherwise. We would like to state that we will vote yes to CHP's research motion. After the Ankara massacres and other massacres, we're actually experiencing another incident. This week, we have unfortunately had many disabled citizens in all these massacres, who became disabled after these massacres. I would like to also say a few words about disabled women, especially in the disabled population, who are relatively few, who are expressed by such percentages. Women with disability are subject to double discrimination, both disabled and female, and their basic rights and freedoms are often violated. Women under the pressure of discrimination and stereotypes of women, as well as disability, have a heavier influence on them because of gender inequality due to gender impositions. By the time they reach the age of education, disabled women either get no education at all, or they get suspended very soon, and the most basic human rights, such as employment, health, cannot benefit enough. At the same time, disabled women are subjected to severe violence, and there is no field work to indicate that these women have been subjected to violence. According to World Health Organization data, one of three women worldwide are subjected to violence at least once in their life. In Turkey, it shows that two out of five women are victims of physical violence. As it turns out, neither WHO nor the relevant institutions in our country have any statistics, data on violence against disabled women. Women with disability cannot leave the scene of violence. Because shelters in particular do not provide access to them, and it is virtually impossible for disabled women to reach shelters where even women who are already disabled are very difficult to reach. The tip lines are set for people who can hear, hear, speak. However, with a message, it's very possible that the report was reported by the disabled, and it's not too complicated to do. Yes, but with long-term measures and planning, we think that the violence and measures of disabled women can be taken, and progress can be made. I'd like to finish by telling our lives about a handicapped woman who has actually had a very serious impact on the lives of many women: the painter Frida Kahlo. Regarding Frida Kahlo, Mexican writer Carlos Fuentes says that he was the first to see her: "Frida Kahlo was a broken Cleopatra, who hid his ancient jewels in the form of years of jealousy, with a stunning gaudy of Mexican peasant women who kept their old jewels from misery and only exhibited them at harvest festivals, with her dry leg, injured foot, and orthopedic corsets hidden in her tortured body. The hair ornaments that carried her to heaven were telling all of us who were present there that her infinite variety of women could neither heal nor make her bitter. The blood spilled in the Mexican Revolution is compared to the executions ordered by Hitler and Stalin. They suspended his head naked to strengthen his spine, but... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I finish my vows?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0085par0170	Mr. Kerestecioglu, I'll give you one more minute, I'm making a positive distinction. Please complete.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0084par0172	Thank you. Frida Kahlo continued to lie in bed and paint in those ceremonial clothes, even as death approached slowly. I'm not sick. He was going to write, "I'm broken, but I'm happy to be able to draw... Yes, hope is something that will not end under any circumstances, not for the families of those we lost in the Ankara massacre, not for our comrades who survived the injury, nor for our disabled citizens. Whether he wants social security or equal rights that we're not given, peace is what we'll get. With this faith, I salute you with respect, with love.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0086par0177	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. The second and final speaker against the Republican People's Party Group proposal is Ankara MP Emrullah Business. Here you go, Mr. Business.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0087par0181	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party Group's motion to open a parliamentary investigation into the explosion in Ankara Station. In the beginning of my words, I salute your grand delegation. First, I pray for God's mercy on the lives we lost in the terrorist attack, my condolences and patience on their families. I wish for immediate healing to our brothers and sisters who were injured in these attacks. I offer my condolences to our brothers and sisters, our security forces, our soldiers, and God's blessing in the fight against terror. I wish our veterans a speedy recovery from these attacks. Again, today, in the recent explosion in Diyarbakir, I pray for God's mercy on the lives we lost in the explosion, and ask for immediate healing for the wounded. I pray that God will give us strength, strength, and strength, to our security forces who are fighting the war on terror. My dear brothers and sisters, Turkey has been facing a comprehensive terrorist attack since July 22, 2015. We have been fighting the terrorist attacks launched by PKK, DHKP-C and other extremist left-wing organisations, which began on July 22nd in Suruç. We continue to fight with terror organizations that threaten national security and public order, aimed at the safety of our security forces and citizens, in accordance with national and international law, with fundamental rights and freedoms, decisive and multi-directional. As EC PARTY governments, we've made it very clear from the very beginning about terrorism. There are no good terrorists or bad terrorists, we've said that terrorism is terror, no matter what the motive, throughout the world, no matter who it is. One's slogan may be religious, the other's slogan may be ethnic, the other may be ideological, but as a result, what is done is terrorism. Therefore, we condemn and condemn DEAC terror as we condemn PKK terror, al Qaeda, Boko Haram terror. Therefore, claims that some terrorist organizations have been given freedom in our country are certainly not true. As a matter of fact, while the DEA is still in the process of forming, on 10 October 2013, the state of the Republic of Turkey declared DEAŞ as a terrorist organization. In this regard, from April 2011 to today, when the Syrian crisis began, about 36,000 foreign nationals were banned from the premises and about 3,000 people were deported from our country. Unfortunately, those who did these recent Brussels attacks were among the suspects we had deported, including those who had previously been involved in the Paris attacks, and these were reported in note to both countries. I'd like to give you a few statistics on the important activities our intelligence and security units conducted in 2016 in terms of counterterrorism: from the beginning of 2016, 94 major incidents against actions and explosives have been blocked by our relevant institutions, including bombs in eight of these cases, live bomb suspects in seven of these cases, members of the organization who will act in five hundred and seventy-four of them. DİSK, KESK, the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures and TTB (DİSK) Call for War Insistency Peace Right Now! On 10 October, a rally was announced under the name of Emek, Barış, Democracy Meeting in Ankara. By the organisers of the rally, 12 p.m.-16 on October 10, 2015. The front of Ankara Train Station has been announced as the meeting point for the rally scheduled to take place in the Medical Corps between 00 hours. At the rally point, a second explosion occurred at around 10:04 p.m., as well as many political organizations, political parties, NGOs, associations and citizens who called for the first rally, as of 10/10/2015 hours, as of 09:00 p.m., almost 10,000 people gathered and prepared for a cortage, followed by an explosion at around 10:04 p.m., 50 meters from where the first explosion occurred. In the explosions, 102 people died, 417 people were injured. Under the administrative investigation carried out by property and police inspectors, other appointments have been appointed by Ankara County Security Commissioner, Security Branch and Intelligence Branch Directors. As a result of analysis of the samples sent from the scene, TNT has been identified by experts who carried out the explosion using factory explosive materials by two live bombs. 22 of these suspects were detained, 15 of them were arrested, and three of whom had been given a judicial check-up verdict, and Halil İbrahim Durgun Gaziantep, who was about to be caught, was found dead. Oversight searches are held at the rally site entrances. The property and police chief inspector have been assigned to investigate the case again in all its dimensions, and the work is under way. Judicial and administrative investigations are under way, but a restraining order is still under way, even if the gag order imposed by the Ankara Courthouse has been lifted. Congressmans, I would like to make a brief statement to you about the materials seized in the fight against terrorism: the materials used to build 274 kilograms of plastic explosives, 49 kilograms of explosives; 348 weapons, 70, 253, long barrel; 399 grenades, 275 grenades, 46 mines, 9 bomb vests, 16,251 ammunition have been seized. Dear lawmakers, these numbers that I've given are a sign that, as I begin my words, Turkey is facing a total terrorist attack. So I'm speaking against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal. Here, the statements made after this explosion and the statements made by the opposition and the opposition in particular, are indeed unfortunate statements. In fact, the DEA has emerged in Syria, you know, in the first place, and the world knows that Syria is behind this. Therefore, the PKK co-operates with DEAŞ, and the Syrian Communications co-operates. After this explosion, you attempt to mock our officials for saying that this cocktail was an attack.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0088par0193	You're making fun of me, you are.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0087par0194	I think it's blindness. You know that no terrorist organization can survive without foreign support. Thus, all terrorist organizations are waging a power of attorney war. Therefore, what did Cemil Bayık recently say about the current leader of the PKK terror organization? He said: "Our goal is to destroy Recep Erdogan, to destroy the AK PARTI government." Likewise, the DEA officials have this statement. How, then, can you put Turkey in the same position or make such a charge? My dear brothers, terrorist organizations are fed through the press. Look, I want to give you some headlines that were made that day after the Ankara attacks, saying "We are mourning for peace" by the Cumhuriyet daily, bringing up Erdogan's presidential ambition, making such a headline.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0089par0196	Is that a lie?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0090par0197	What's wrong with it?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0087par0198	We're looking at another newspaper that blames the power directly in the form of this Death Power.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0089par0199	Is that a lie?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0090par0200	Are those lies?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0087par0201	If this isn't terrorism support, then what is it?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0091par0202	You met in Oslo, Oslo.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0090par0203	A government watching will be blamed there.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0087par0204	Where the terrorist organization will be accused, these newspapers will publish them on the front page. Another newspaper says they slaughtered the peace once more.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0091par0205	Didn't you see him in Oslo? Didn't you meet him at Habur?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0087par0206	We're looking at it: it says, "Fuck you." Well, the same papers...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0092par0207	In Adıyaman, didn't they do these acts?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0087par0208	If you'll just be patient...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0092par0209	I won't be patient. What more can we wait for? How many hundred will die? How many hundred more will you kill?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0087par0210	Look, what did the same papers say after the Paris attack? Here's one: don't they have a little nationality or a little domesticity or a little love for this country?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0092par0212	Yeah, you had the biggest national massacre in your day.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0087par0213	That's what you say when there's an explosion in Paris, when there's a terror, but here you're accusing direct power of slaughter. So, why didn't you accuse the French government there, blame his government?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0092par0214	The French government is guilty, and you are guilty.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0087par0215	Here: We curse the terrorist.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0092par0216	You can't cover your crimes.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0087par0217	When we have them, we see what kind of headlines they make when they're somewhere else. Look, after the explosion in Sultanahmet, it's called "Katliam Country" again. These are all acts of terror. If you, these newspapers, do this kind of propaganda for the terrorist organization, they're in a state of terrorism, and therefore there's serious weakness in the fight against terrorism.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0092par0219	How did they come to Ankara, waving their hands?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0087par0220	Mr. President, why don't you give me a little positive discrimination?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0093par0221	We can't discriminate against men, Mr. Business. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0087par0222	Mr. President, they've said too much, give me a minute.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0094par0223	No, no, no. Enough.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0095par0224	Father's Day, Father's Day, Father's Day, Father's Day.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0094par0225	Where did this come from, sir? No, sir, it's not like that.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0096par0226	If you want negative discrimination, I'll give you a minute. Negative discrimination.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0097par0227	Oh, that's too bad.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0096par0228	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0098par0229	Congressmans, look, Turkey has been facing a perception operation in the international arena since 2011, since the Arab Spring. So, Turkey, you know, has been identified with terrorism, no, it's been digitized. It's been visited four or five times from 2011 to today.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0099par0230	What happened? You struck Davutoglu.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0098par0231	My dear brothers, members of lawmakers, look, there are lies written in the press, and then politicians take it. The motion here today is the same. One is called... through the press spoken in the political arena. For example, yesterday, there was another article in a newspaper about a Syrian political actor called the Al-Qaeda Vize. On page 1. Now, when we look at this individual, when a party leader comes to Turkey about a person who attends the meetings of the United Nations in England, France, Germany, Italy, Geneva, Geneva... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's how you make up a story. What happens after that? Turkey supports no DEAŞ, no al-Qaeda supports the terrorist organization... lt's being used all the time by politicians.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0100par0234	Thank you, Mr. Business.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0101par0235	Where did the MIT trucks go? Where'd the MIT trucks go?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0102par0236	What the hell was that about a terrorist?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0103par0237	Therefore, lawmakers, we are against this motion. Our decisive fight against terrorism will continue, as it has been so far. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0102par0240	What was it about terrorist organizations that talked to them? What did we tell them, the people who interviewed the terrorist organization?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0104par0241	Congressmans, I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and processed and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/571) I demand that my original Law Proposal be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda under Article 37 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Vice President As the bidder, I'd like to invite Mr. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi. Your time is five minutes. Mr. Hamzacebi, come in.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0105par0256	Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, I would like to welcome you to the agenda of my proposal for the law in order to address the problem of property in Turkey's dense political agenda, in which a large mass lives. My proposal for the law is to ensure that our citizens who are entitled to 2/B land and who have lost the right to 2/B for various reasons, who have lost the right to be entitled to 2/B, whether they have the right to apply or not. During legal and additional periods, our citizens may have applied, but they may have failed to pay, legally or otherwise, because they never applied. I've given all of these citizens this proposal of the law in question in order to give them a right to law law 2/B again. In this framework, I propose that we give six months of additional application time to citizens who have not submitted the legal deadlines and extensions provided by the law, and that our citizens who have not been able to pay in advance and instalments in advance and in installments, again, should be given a one-year supplementary period. That's what my offer predicts. If my proposal is taken into consideration, our citizens who have failed to apply for 2/B or who have not been able to pay their payments in advance on time will be entitled again. My offer is basically orchestrating this. Congressmans, the 2/B territories are areas that have been driven out of the jungle due to the loss of forest property under Article 2/B of Forest Law 6831. These lands are widely used by forest villagers, and in cities they are the subject of urban settlements. So, because of the need for a citizen, he uses this land as his home or his home garden. In fact, it is not right to call property land which belongs to the state and is used by the citizen as a home and a garden or as a farm land just 2/B land, or grouping it. This is a group, this is the first group. Other than that, there are three other groups. The second group, although legally a forest, has lost its property of the forest and is also used as a home and a garden by the citizen. The third group is the land of which it has not received its title until 1984, when it is the subject of zoning affinity Act 2981, and is entitled to a deed allocation or a deed allocation. A fourth group is the 2/B forest area and other treasures that are not part of Law 2981, which include urban settlements. I have proposed two separate laws to resolve the problems of all four groups of settlements and forest villagers. Today, I've only brought to you the one about 2/B, and it's intended to give you an extension because I mentioned it in the beginning, but it's not limited to that. As I counted the four groups, I mentioned a group of areas that are legally related to forests, not literally forests, but urban settlements. For example, there are 6,000 households like this in Beskoz, dear friends. In Tokatköy's Ayasma (Ayasma) district of Beykoz, our citizens are now living in fear of evacuating their homes, or are concerned about the evacuation of our citizens in Hasanpaşa district of Sultanbeyli. One of the two neighbours can have the rights because the land is 2/B; the other is legally a forest; the other one can't have the rights; or the Sultanbeyli district of Hasanpaşa, one side of the street is 2/B, the other side is forest; the forest is legal, not actual. I have brought to you an offer of law that aims to solve all of this. Other issues mentioned include my other law proposal. For example, I have a separate legal proposal for the transfer of the deed under Law 2981 to the deed. Since I'm out of time, I'm gonna end my conversation here, and I'm gonna pay my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0106par0264	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Second and final speaker on the proposal, İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0107par0268	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute and salute you all. Really, we live today as the first in Turkish political history. What is the first in Turkish political history? That's the first: Mr. Akif Hamzaçebi, Deputy Speaker of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and Deputy Speaker of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the first to leave office, to worry about the people's problems, to bring a law proposal to the Parliament and to make it legal. And hopefully, it's, I mean, not just as an MP, but as acting president of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, here, we ask that all of our fellow lawmakers, all of our groups, be supportive. He just mentioned here that Mr. President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Sultanbeyli is from Hasanpaşa neighborhood of Sultanbeyli. Dear friends, Sultanbeyli is the head of Hasanpaşa neighborhood, Hasanpaşa neighborhood has sewers, sidewalks, streets, electricity, houses are numbered. Up until now, there have been contributions to Hasanpaşa, and the election papers have been entered into this address, but as our Deputy Speaker of Parliament states, this place still appears to be in the woods. Dear friends, if this is a forest area, why did you build the electric transformer there? If this is a forest area, why did you give electricity here? If this is a forest area, why did you put a phone in the house, why did you plug in the electricity, why did you connect the water, why did you connect the voters' records?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0108par0272	There's also the Internet.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0107par0273	Dear friends, the people of Hasanpaşa neighborhood in Sultanbeyli are really victims and Hasanpaşa say that we have voted for AKP in Sultanbeyli for years and for political parties who shared the same thought before him, but they have victimised us. Problem 2/B... Dear friends, as Mr. Akif Hamzacebi Bey has pointed out, the second article of our Constitution is that the state of the Republic of Turkey is a social state. In the social government, if a citizen can't pay, of course he can't, not knowing that he can't, because of the impossible. These people didn't get the deed because they didn't have the money, because they didn't have the money, because they didn't have the money. For him, what the Assembly has to do here is, as the Constitution states, it is wise to give our citizens this opportunity again in accordance with the principle of the social state. As a result, this is a one-year period, really, to this day, to prevent the victims of our people buying a house that could be bought from the bracelet, held from the jewelry, and borrowed and sold all the jewelry. Otherwise, these people don't live in villas, these people don't loot the forest; when all of these people take these places, they're paid to buy them, and they're all poor people and poor people who live here. Each of the two parts of the B/B/B is usually a villa, so they've already invested their money, so they've bought a place that costs $100 for 56 TL. But these citizens can't pay for it. If everyone's true to their word, we stand for the poor, we stand for the people who can't make a living, we stand for the poor. If we say so, we all ask that the four political parties support our offer. If, of course, you don't vote for this offer, I offer my respect and respect to all of you, to know that we will expose the groups that reject it to all of our citizens, who have problems with Beskoz (B) or 2/B, to all of our citizens.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0109par0277	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Congressmans, I submit the motion to your votes: those who agree... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0110par0279	Mr. President, if you could just turn on the microphone...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0109par0280	Mr. Inuöz, do you have a commitment request?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0110par0281	Yes, please. I'll make a brief statement.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0109par0282	We're turning on your microphone. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0110par0286	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, Istanbul MP Akif Hamzaçebi has an offer to support the Development of Forest Villages No. 6292 and to assess Places Outside Forest Borders in the Treasure's Name and to change the Law on the Sales of Treasured Agriculture Lands and to bring it directly to the agenda as required by the Interior Charter 37. We've just rejected it, but I especially want to point out that our Ministry, our government, has a study on this issue, and when the work is completed in that sense, the issue will come to light. It's not... it's not a denial. And in that sense, I want our nation to be very comfortable, too, waiting for an arrangement.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0111par0287	Then put the vote to the reports, yes.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0110par0288	What government is there? I want to make it very clear that I don't accept them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] At the moment, the government is continuing its work, our ministers are in control of its issues, and when the work on the law is completed, it will be brought to light. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0112par0292	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0113par0293	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0112par0294	Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0113par0295	Hasanpaşa neighborhood Mukhtar has also arrived, and the people have also met with the Minister, and even the mayors have sent a free car and met with him.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0114par0296	His references were wrong, Mr. President. Let them come to us.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0113par0297	They talked to the Minister of Environment and Urbanism, and I talked to him. That's what our vice president says, but it's not relevant, it's not relevant, and they don't have any information, so I'm sorry.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0115par0298	Well, Mr. Tanal, thank you. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0116par0301	Sir, thank you very much. Now, we've just seen a situation riveted once again by the explanation of Mr. Slimus. The proposal deals directly with the problems of the citizens, no matter how accurate, no matter how convenient, if it is not from the government, or if it is not the proposal of its own MPs, the ruling party does not accept such a thing, but then brings it in later on and gives it to it. If this really is Parliament, if there really is a separation of forces, if the MPs were deciding with free consciences, they would have said that Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, who has made all the offers in this matter and in the past period of which the members of the group have confirmed the rights and the necessity of the vice presidents, that Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, in this matter and in regard to all the demands of the community, should be put on the agenda of this proposal. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm sorry, sir, if I may...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0117par0305	Mr. Special, one minute after we're on the agenda, you know. For the record, please.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0116par0307	So for the record, this is what they call this, no. And then they say, "Well, actually, no. It's not no, it's right, we'd like to say yes. It's a lack of intimacy."
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0118par0308	How intimate were you when you took him to the Supreme Court?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0116par0309	We are also experiencing a coup that the Justice and Development Party cannot hold a Council meeting today, that cannot hold a group meeting in parliament, and that the government and the group are being unplugged directly by the court's hand. Mr. Group Vice President has registered this as well.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0119par0310	You took 2/B to the Constitutional Court.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0118par0311	Who took it to the Supreme Court in 2004? Now you're talking.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0116par0312	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0120par0314	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0118par0315	Who took the law to the Constitutional Court in 2004?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0121par0316	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0120par0317	Mr. Incescuz, here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0121par0319	Mr. President, I feel the need to make a statement that we've just been asked to take direct into consideration as required by the Civil Code 37...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0120par0320	Let's turn on your mic, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0121par0321	Please. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we have just made a statement of our own consent that the proposal of the law should be taken directly into consideration under the terms of the Civil Code 37. This statement is that our ministry is working on it. After the work is completed, he'll come to the House in a proper manner, and he'll meet... to put other meanings to it, from this statement... if we hadn't made that statement, he wouldn't have had the opportunity to speak. And it's not right to make any more sense than that. Besides, if you have to look at the impact, you have to look at the date, you have to look at 1960, you have to look at 1971, you have to look at 1980. What the coup is... we've been through this recently, we've been through this, we've been through this, how democracy has been interfered with.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0122par0324	Let them look at May 10th, May 10th coup.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0123par0325	He's got the President, he's got the chief.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0121par0326	Look, if we're talking about our own agenda...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0122par0327	Don't forget the May 10 coup! You're sitting in a May 10 coup.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0121par0328	...we have a lot to say to the Republican People's Party, but we're going to the agenda of our country and our nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0122par0330	He's sitting on the May 10 coup, CHP.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0124par0331	Happy 4th of May!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0125par0332	May 4th, may the coup d'état be a blessing!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0126par0333	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0127par0334	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0126par0335	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0127par0336	Mr. President, Mr. President, the first statement of Mr. Tütöz is that if you are sincere, if you are so busy with the public agenda, you are so right, and since Mr. Akif Hamzacebi has always raised his life over you in Parliament, but disregarded his warnings today, you are obliged to compensate for the shortcomings of the law you have passed today. Yes, your question is of your own free will.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0128par0337	Who passed this 2/B law, Mr. President? Didn't AK PARTY rule 2/B?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0127par0338	The second part...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0129par0339	You're the one who took it to the Supreme Court, who canceled it.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0128par0340	For God's sake, let it go! Who pulled out 2/B?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0130par0341	Please, let's hear it.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0131par0342	Our government is in its place, our group is in its place... the wind blows in your group's place. You can't have a group meeting, you can't have a Council of Ministers meeting.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0132par0343	What's it to you? What's it to you?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0131par0344	You're miserable, pathetic. (HPP clapping in rows) You've been hit. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0132par0347	You're writing a script, a script!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0133par0348	They're the ones who took 2/b to the Supreme Court and canceled it!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0134par0349	Mr. Ozgur, this isn't the polls. This is the Capitol.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0132par0350	That's what you've been waiting for, a dream!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0135par0351	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0136par0352	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0135par0353	Mr. Incescuz, one more time?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0136par0354	I'll say a sentence, please...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0135par0355	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0136par0356	I'd like to make it very clear that this is not an appropriate conversation for the House. Alas, unfortunately, the main opposition party has nothing more to say, the ruling party's internal issue, the ruling party's own developments...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0137par0357	It's a Turkey thing.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0138par0358	Is the Prime Minister in there?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0139par0359	We live in Uganda, Uganda
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0140par0361	Pity! If he wants to see a coup, let him read the date of the coup.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0138par0362	Didn't the government get its approval from this House?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0140par0363	The next time he says such a thing, the main opposition party unfortunately lacks material. Thank you. Pity!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0141par0365	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0142par0366	They're afraid something might happen to the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0143par0367	Tell us why your president went to the D.A.'s office today.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0141par0368	Mr. Ironel, please.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0144par0370	Mr. President, thank you. We really need to rephrase what happened. I mean, how is it that the country's problem, with 49.5 percent of the Prime Minister, is in their own way... Again, the group vice president says that this problem is our own internal problem. We already know that you have an internal problem, and we've said it over and over again on the stand. We knew you were full of your own internal contradictions, and we were right. As a group of HDPs, we've said these things over and over again. We already knew that you were involved with internal contradictions, internal problems, and you already confessed to him today, but this is the blow that the palace has done to the Prime Minister, it's not just an internal problem, it's the problem of a party, it's the problem of all Turkey; it's the way to see it, it's the way to perceive it.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0145par0372	Turkey has no power issues, opposition issues, only opposition issues.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0144par0373	How is it that a government does not carry out a prime minister's duties that only the AKP government... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... Or the AKP party has its own internal problem, so I'm saying it needs to be considered. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit03spe0146par0377	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0146par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 87th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will begin negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Constitutional Commission Reports in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of Bill 248, which is ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of Bill 87, which is ranked in the third place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of Bill 5 in the fourth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Bill Number 10 in the 5th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Bill 24th, which is ranked in the 6th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of Bill 26 in the 7th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Belgium, the Government of the French Community, the Government of Valonia and the Committee of the French Community of the Brussels-Primement Committee for Culture, Education and Scientific Research (/324), and the Foreign Affairs Commission Report (1/324). Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 29 rows.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0147par0038	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0146par0039	Mr. Special, you have a request for a statement.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0147par0040	Before I make my request, sir, we're at an extremely important point of view.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0146par0041	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0147par0044	There are some situations in which we have not been able to negotiate for hours before; here, how do we do it, how do we do it hand-to-hand, how do we do it, do we do it the next day; and that is: there's an established application in the parliament, where the commission is no more than three percent, and then we continue to say, "Well, since it turns out that the commission is no longer in place, there is no commission." I remember the talks two months ago, when I was in the back, when four group vice presidents were negotiating for hours, and there were examples of the Laws Decisions, and then there was a bad precedent, and you remember the negotiations. The fact that there are eight, nine commissions here today is a really bad precedent. In your administration, whether it's about the meaning, the importance of the day, your positive discrimination, your respect for the rights of speech, in our own name, if this happened today, on behalf of our group, but if it does not set a bad example for the future, let's take it into account for this once -- that there is an international agreement and that there are no opposition groups on it, and that there will be no such thing in the future, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0146par0045	Thank you, Mr. Special. I'd like to point out that we'll consider your proposal first. It's because there's an agreement between groups, and I just want to say that I've been doing it in accordance with the agreement.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0148par0048	Sir, can I use my word now?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0146par0049	Well, here you go, I promise you one minute.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0148par0051	Mr. President, Mr. Tüyöz has just used a statement to the People's Party of the Republic. This expression is extremely unfortunate, and it's not appropriate for the way we're used to it. However, his criticism of us is the point of interference in the internal affairs of the ruling party. I would like to remind him of two things: A statement in the previous Council of Ministers that Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ gave information on the state of the National Movement Party's congressional process, presented it, answered the ministers' questions, was made public, not denied by the ruling party. In addition, Interior Minister Efkan Ala has criticised the internal affairs of CHP and DP for 20 minutes. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He sees his own ministers and his own groups for the price of his testimony. We, the Republican People's Party, underline this, renegotiate our commitments.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0149par0056	Too bad, too bad!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0150par0057	Thank you, Mr. Special, your statements have been recorded. Congressmans, there are no speakers on the whole bill. There's no question-answering process. This is how the negotiations on the entire bill are completed. Now, I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The government of Turkey, the government of the Republic of Turkey, the government of France, the government of Valonia, and the establishment of the United States and the establishment of the United States and the establishment of the United States and the government of the United States and the government of the United States. Agreement between the government of the Republic of Turkey signed in Brussels on 7 June 2011 and the Government of the French Community of Belgium, the Government of Valonia and the Committee of the French Community of the Brussels-Personal Region was approved between Culture, Education and Scientific Research. On the 1st article, Mr. Kadir Koçdemir is an MP for the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Coachdemir. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0151par0072	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Government of the Republic of Turkey to the National Movement Party on the 1st Article of the Bill of Law on the Approvement of Co-operation in Culture, Education and Scientific Research between the Government of the French Society, the Government of Belgium, the Government of Valonia and the Committee of the French Community of the Brussels-Personal Region. At the beginning of my words, I salute you all. At the beginning of my words, I wish to celebrate Mother's Day, when our mothers have not experienced the sadness of bad government, especially the news of martyrs and deaths. At the end of the 12th century, which is very similar to today, there is a beautiful saying from Jonah Emre (who lived at the beginning of the 13th century), perhaps sums up all the dimensions of life together with beautiful Turkish, saying: "Let's meet/ make it easy, let's make it easy, let's be loved, let's be loved, let's be loved, let's be loved." International relations are an important way to implement this reality on the scale of the world, on the sphere scale, but recently when we look at international relations, we see that this dimension of international relations has been forgotten, that there is the art of finding harmony among national interests, national interests and goals on the basis of certain principles of international relations. The international relations that our late Prime Minister has branded, especially in the geography, have been transformed into a process that has affected both Turkey and our internal affairs very closely and unfortunately negatively. A foreign policy, which wishes for a certain world view to come to life by saying it is based only on norms, unfortunately today has made Turkey unable to move both outside and inside. There have been other oratories that have come up here, and behind many of the terror incidents that we've experienced inside, there are some of the friends we've lost outside and some of the claims that we can't stand behind. I remember a joke when I said Mr. Davutoglu's foreign affairs. There's a bully walking down the road in a town. He is weak and small, but people bow down in humility to keep away from evil, and wheresoever he walks, everyone standeth up and closes his eyes. A man who sees this situation looks at those who stand up, those who stand up, and our weak bully, and he comes close to the bully and slaps him on the back of the head. The bully turns around, looks at the guy, he's strong, he can't beat him if he fights, but by the way, everyone on that street is looking at both of them, and he needs to say something. He says, "Are you hitting me?" Our man says I'm hitting you with another spanking. He'll think of the bully again, he'll have to find a way out. Are you hitting Essah, or are you hitting him with a joke? The man who struck this bully, who was more violent than the first two, drops a third spanking and says, "Essah, I'm hitting you." The bully goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and Turkey's foreign policy is similar to this: it sets off with big claims, and then when it faces reality, it turns out that I don't like jokes. Today, the opposite side of the international agreement is also meaningful in terms of the point we bring inside Turkey because of this foreign policy. We made the deal with Belgium, but in Belgium, because of the changes in its internal law, we're doing it with three governments, three districts that I've just counted. Belgium has six states, three communities, French speakers, German speakers and Dutch speakers; there are also three districts. It's a constitutional federal monarchy, run by a bilateral system. It's a very small place for Turkey, where there are 11 million people living in an area of 30,000 square kilometers, but when you say Belgium, we remember a few things recently. These language-based communities are moving towards a continuous dissolution. A principle in modern European history was signed in Belgium, and the 2011 elections did not dry the government for five hundred and forty days. Since 1961, ethnicity has been banned from the census and the... Finally, you know there were two terrorist incidents in Belgium on March 22nd, and in many international articles, particularly in Independence, where the Belgian state department could not function in harmony, although there was a lot of information -- which Turkey had said that it had warned the Belgian units along with Greece regarding the attack -- which could not have been prevented in this terrorist attack. This means something like this in Turkey. If we're talking about democracy, we have to establish a common sense of democracy. There's no blame on people in the democratic field for saying these things in public, of course, but when they come in saying these things, describing themselves like this, when this language or blood is a reference point based on genetic, biological properties, democracy doesn't work here, and there are many examples of that in other parts of the world. Here's one that we've been going to recently -- when we've been studying in Property -- is that seven states have come out of Yugoslavia, the symbol of self-management, and that today's Bosnia and Herzegovina is not clear where it's going to go in ten years. In Turkey, a process where the heads are turned upside down by saying "alt-top identity" and 36 ethnic groups are counted as unknown to where this is going is going is going to go towards paralyzing democracy as well. And this democracy has proved to be a hybrid democracy with recent events. You know, there's hybrid vehicles, they go on with classical fuel, but they can also work with solar energy; in our democracy, the normal parliamentary system is the cabinet, it gets the vote of confidence from the House, but elsewhere, when it's over, other energy comes in. This has shown that Turkey has been brought to one man by the name of one nation, one country, one flag, one state, and by the word that the ruling party loves, Turkey is bigger than the only man with the population that is approaching 80 million. What we need these days is for the House to act like parliament again, for our constitutional institutions to carry out their own balancing and control mechanisms. I began with Jonah, and I will finish with him, and Jonah says: Even the person is a word for it, That's a promise. This is Jihan hell, Eight is a word to fly. These days we are a nation, and this is where the national will must be. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0152par0089	Thank you, Mr. Coachdemir. On behalf of groups on the 1st article, Adana MP Meral Danış Beştaş on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Beştaş. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0153par0094	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. On behalf of my group, I have taken a pledge from the Government of the Republic of Turkey to the Government of Belgium, the Government of the French Society, the Government of Valonia and the Commission of the French Community of the Brussels-Present District, to the Legislating of the Co-operation Agreement on Culture, Education and Scientific Research. But I think all the fellow lawmakers here know that this bill is from the 24th term. What are we doing, why are we bringing up this bill now? I'm going to put a big question mark on other materials because we're really going to... what's Parliament doing right now, what's being done to Congress? While the agenda is so intense, while people continue to die everywhere, while arrests, detentions, heavy human rights violations are taking place in parliament, especially considering that lawmakers, especially the ruling party group, are discussing their own internal problems, and seeing that they're considering the coup, friends see that they're shopping, we're keeping the Assembly open to ourselves. Here we are, taking a bill that came a few years ago, there's nothing wrong with the public today, and we're agreeing with the laws to find it appropriate for international agreements. There's a message being given, but the public won't buy it. You can't fool anyone anymore, it's obvious. Really, after May 4th, nothing will ever be the same anymore, and we know very well that the ruling party has taken the coup we say every day, and will now face the consequences of the coup itself. One man will remember the cost of a single man's administration, the end of a Prime Minister from a general election with a word between one person's lips, the people will not forget it, and we hope that the ruling party MPs will not forget it. It's not their internal problem, it's Turkey's issue of democracy, it's the issue of Turkey's Constitution, it's a sign that the coup has taken place step by step in Turkey, and that we're all going to have to live with the consequences of this coup, it's official, everyone needs to consider it that way. What happened today, lawmakers? Mr. Kamuran Yüksek has been taken into custody in Diyarbakır. I just got off the phone with some lawyer friends. Why was he taken into custody? Because of his press release. That's Turkey. The co-captain of a party owned by 102 municipalities is being detained in front of his party's headquarters because he made a press statement. We want this detention to end immediately, and we want to say that this is another indication that the coup is being carried on to parties, to other parties. Again, today, the European Court of Human Rights condemned Turkey for the murder of Nusret Tetovo by force. Sixty thousand euros in restitution, and I'll tell you the story one day. Just like today, he was a terrorist, he ran away, we shot him. They said, "No, it was a civilian, you didn't warn him, and you killed him in plain sight." Today, the United Nations made a very important call. 100 people have burned the state of the Republic of Turkey alive, he said. I don't know, you hear? Right now, this report is being reported all over the world, in Turkey and in Kurdistan. The United Nations announced it today, but in the meantime, I'd like to remember our dear colleague Ramadan Demir. He's in prison right now. He was only arrested as a lawyer because he moved the people who were burned in the basement in Cizre to the European Court of Human Rights, and that's the most important part of the questions: Turkey's reputation is being discredited. What kind of reputation, I'm putting another big question mark on him. Now, the U.N. report says with the top of the line: I mean, he says there's a serious concern and he's calling for an investigation. United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeyd Raad Al Hussein has called for permission to conduct independent investigations in Turkey to be allowed to travel in the region unblocked, and has stated that from mid-December until mid-March, serious documents have come to him, that there are witnesses, that there are files, and that so far, the state of Turkey specifically does not allow independent observers, human rights inspectors, international mechanisms, and that international mechanisms should be allowed to study them. Again, in the same statement, it is the duty of Turkey to protect its people from acts of violence. It is essential that authorities always respect the international law, which prohibits human rights in anti-terrorism operations; torture, judicial execution, disproportionate, deadly violence and arbitrary detention. Meanwhile, 167 people were slaughtered in the basements of the atrocities, not 100. And today, three months later, the funeral of the Co-Chair of the People's Assembly, Asia Asşaş, was identified today. The funeral of Asia Asşaş, who was murdered in the basements in Cizre, had not been identified in spite of all the examinations until today. Now, we, indeed, have read here the names of the civilians in the basements and the crimes against humanity in Cizre, and it is in the Parliament's records. Turkey, with its power, with its presidency, with all its men, with all its people involved, has committed this massacre with an eye-to-eye, one step at a time, by promoting it, by taking pictures of it, by withdrawing ambulances, saying, "I sent ambulances." And even though it was known that all of this was our testimony, they carried out that massacre. And the United Nations announced it today. This won't end with the United Nations. Of course, with our European Union and international mechanisms, there's no telling how power and especially the President are related. In the meantime, it is rumored that this is one of the reasons why the Prime Minister was dismissed. Do we really want to comply with the European Union, or do we completely reject the European Union norms? This Congress needs to know about this, explain it to us. Every day, the President will go out and post mail in public language to the European Union, member states, mechanisms, and I don't know you. Turkey's criteria are like this today, you know, it's like that bully saying, "If you're going to pay 3 billion euros, give it to me!" Jesus Christ! Is that how you do foreign policy? I don't have to obey foreign policy. Change the Anti-Terror Law. It says, "The President says today, we don't change that." Turkey doesn't take orders. No, no, Turkey takes orders, all countries take orders. If you, as a government, have signed a contract, I will fulfill its requirements. If you say so, you will be judged, condemned, rejected, expelled; make your choice. No one is forced to invite you or us to go to Europe. And in this historical turn, we're really, step by step away from international values, one step closer to dictatorship every day, and today, with the call of the United Nations, the path of the International Criminal Tribunal is a little shorter. These crimes against humanity will not be judged, but you will.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0154par0106	Why don't you give it to me first, and then...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0153par0107	The days are coming when you'll be paying for it, undersigned, silent, laughing, not having anything to do with it, not having anything to do with it.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0154par0108	Do I say anything about your ugliness? Do I say anything about your ugliness?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0155par0109	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0153par0110	In front of the International Criminal Court...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0154par0111	Dirty!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0153par0112	You're immoral!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0156par0113	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0154par0114	Do I say anything about your ugliness?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0153par0115	You're the most corrupt and vulgar of all, you know that?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0154par0116	Do I say anything about your ugliness?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0157par0117	You're the dirty one!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0158par0118	Yeah, that's enough!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0159par0119	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0160par0120	You can tell it in front of the International Criminal Court. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0161par0123	Let them wait for immunity.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0162par0124	You're obviously turning me on.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0163par0125	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0164par0126	You're obsessed with my laugh, ugly!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0165par0127	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0164par0128	I've said it!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0166par0129	Behave yourself, behave yourself!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0164par0130	You'll behave!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0167par0131	Don't talk like that!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0166par0132	Know your place, know your place!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0164par0133	I laugh and I laugh, but it's none of your business!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0166par0134	You don't know anything else, that's why you're a congressman, your motive!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0164par0135	I laugh, it's none of your business!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0168par0136	Mr. Sergeant...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0166par0137	You're just sitting around laughing and picking on me, you don't know anything else.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0164par0138	Do I say anything about your ugliness?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0168par0139	Mr. Sergeant, I also condemn you for using the word immoral.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0164par0140	Do what you're doing.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0168par0141	For using such a word against a woman's congressman...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0164par0142	Someone can't stand on that stand and dictate to me how I'm going to behave here!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0168par0143	I'm criticizing you, Mr. Sergeant. It's the right...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0164par0144	The speaker who stands on this stand cannot dictate to me how I stand, how I will behave!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0168par0145	You come out, you answer.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0164par0146	He's going to talk about dictatorship, how he's going to talk!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0168par0147	Mr. Sergeant, you'll come out, you'll answer...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0169par0148	Do you have to insult me?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0170par0149	Who are you yelling at?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0171par0150	I condemn you, too. Ugly!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0169par0151	You're ugly! Look at your face!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0172par0152	...but you can't use the word "moral" to a women's MP.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0171par0153	I used it!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0173par0154	Indecency is what you do!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0174par0155	And he said, "Nutsy," and he said, "Nutsy!"
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0175par0156	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0176par0157	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0175par0158	Mr. President, I'd say it's not to stretch the mood, not to make it polemic, but to our friends who are talking to each other from the podium, why are you laughing?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0177par0159	No, we're not laughing at him, we're not laughing at him, we're not laughing at him, we're not laughing at him, we're not laughing at him,
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0178par0160	The person next to you talks so much, you're the president of the group, so step in.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0179par0161	Mr. Turan, you can come out and answer, of course there's nothing in it, but there's no way we can accept the word "moral."
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0180par0162	Mr. President, so let's just leave it at that. And our approach to that is, without separating male or female...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0181par0163	Is it right for him to call himself the MP?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0182par0164	What do you mean?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0181par0165	You call yourself the MP.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0182par0166	Well, that's because he doesn't have any other qualifications.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0181par0167	Is that even possible? Is it up to you that the congressman...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0182par0168	I didn't say it was immoral.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0181par0169	Did you make us MPs?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0183par0170	Mr. Turan, come in, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0182par0171	I didn't say it was immoral.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0181par0172	Congressman, did you do it?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0182par0173	I didn't say it was immoral.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0184par0174	He who utters that word is immoral! You're dirty!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0182par0175	You're a dirty son of a...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0185par0176	That's enough! Well, come on, give it to the court.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0184par0177	He says he's sorry, he doesn't count me as a congressman!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0182par0178	You're gonna apologize, you!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0186par0179	You apologize, you!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0187par0180	You need to apologize, too, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0188par0181	I don't beg because it's immoral!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0187par0182	Mr. Sergeant, please...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0189par0183	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0187par0184	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0189par0185	Once again, there's no distinction between men and women when you insult them.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0190par0186	And then say you're sorry.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0189par0187	Your statement to a woman's MP is not correct.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0190par0188	It doesn't matter, he said it was immoral!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0191par0189	Of course it is, of course it is, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0189par0190	I mean, I don't think it's right for a woman to be a surrogate or a man to have a sense of what's going to happen. This is the first one. Second: When our friend from the bench was speaking, he insisted on laughing. But our friend never said a word. I'm right here.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0192par0192	That's what he said, that's what he said.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0193par0193	I didn't.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0189par0194	No, he never threw it away, he never threw it away, I'm here.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0192par0195	He made a speech.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0193par0196	I didn't. No, until you say something...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0192par0197	We'll take a look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0194par0198	It was the same polemic in the Constitutional Commission, based on the condition of Hakan Bey. Our friend is being aggressive... Ms. Meral is doing this, no need. We can't...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0195par0199	So, are you guys gonna take this back or not? Did he or did he not say that he was immoral? What a shame!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0192par0200	Yeah, take it back.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0196par0201	First, say a few words to the man next to you. Shame on you! Shame, does it suit you now?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0197par0202	That guy next to you is a congressman!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0198par0203	Ms. Coral, he didn't mean anything to you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0199par0204	Look, this is the last ten seconds of conversation.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0200par0205	All right, members of the law, please... Mr. Turan, come in, over. Mr. Demirel, you've entered the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0201par0209	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0202par0210	You're still trying to defend it. At least there's an apology to be made.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0203par0211	Teacher, you're talking about the one who thinks he's a congressman.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0204par0212	What's he defending?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0205par0213	Guys...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0206par0214	Everyone will know their place, everyone will know their place! No one tells a congressman what he wants on this stand.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0207par0215	You'll know your place!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0208par0216	You'll know your place!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0206par0217	I know. You're ugly!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0208par0218	You're the ugly one! Ugly is your attitude.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0209par0219	Mr. Sergeant, please, I beg you. There's no such procedure, there's no such way of speaking, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0208par0220	You're turning this place into a fucking mountaintop! You work in gang style!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0209par0221	Mr. State...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0210par0222	Mr. President, you need to warn the speaker, he's picking on the congressman from the stand. What do you mean, he's laughing?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0211par0223	The person who thinks he's a congressman...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0209par0224	Friends, please, let's not insult each other.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0211par0225	I'm a congressman, don't let him think I'm a congressman. People chose me here, too.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0209par0226	Yes, of course it is, Mr. Sergeant. Everybody's a congressman here.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0211par0227	These words deserve the word "indecency." It's immoral!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0212par0228	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0209par0229	Mr. Ironel, please.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0212par0232	Mr. President, really, we don't know if this is Parliament or the street.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0213par0233	Then don't support terrorism.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0212par0234	I mean, picking on the congressman when he's on the stand...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0213par0235	He was the one who sold it, himself.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0214par0236	He picked on me.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0215par0237	He didn't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0216par0238	It's a situation we've been condemning from the beginning, using words, making different moves. If you have any words, you leave, you answer from the stand, you say your word. How many times has this happened? We're just taking the liberty of saying that. We don't accept this approach, we condemn it, we condemn it. Indeed, our fellow lawmakers do nothing but pick on AKP MPs when their female friends speak from the parliament bench in private.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0217par0239	Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) MPs who are selling, who are teasing.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0216par0240	Then let him make a promise and speak from the stand. I'm returning to you all the words the congressman said to our MPs. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0218par0242	Well, thank you, Mr. Ironel. Let's end this discussion.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0219par0244	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0218par0245	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0219par0246	Hold him down, Mr. President. We don't find any insults right, and I'll say it again. However, he was persistently taunting her while she was in the courtroom, expressed by the member of the group. I do not find her expression correct. I was talking to Mr. Hakan, and he was aggressive because he was told to smile even though he didn't pick on him, and that's the sum of it.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0220par0249	Do you listen to what he says? Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0221par0250	He's the one talking! He's talking on the stand.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0222par0251	Yeah, what do you mean?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0223par0252	He did. I heard him.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0224par0253	Just a second, Mr. Lawmakers... Mr. Ironel, please.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0225par0255	Did you hear what he said?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0226par0256	No, but are you a trustee? He says, "Are you a guardian?" He says, "Don't hold back." Is that really necessary?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0225par0257	Do I say anything about your ugliness?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0227par0258	Mr. Kerestecioğlu, your group vice president is standing.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0228par0259	The person who thinks he's a congressman. What else does he have to say?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0229par0260	I'm just saying, for the record. We'll get the transcripts, we'll get the reports. It's going to show who's talking, who's talking. Well, it's obvious that the deputy who spoke for us was talking on the stand, and he was being bullied, so we made it very clear.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0230par0262	Okay. Mr. Demirel, ask for the transcripts, and I'll ask for the transcripts, and we'll review them.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0231par0264	So you don't hear what he's telling us.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0232par0265	I don't approve of the insult, should I say it again?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0230par0266	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0233par0268	Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0234par0269	They call you human, do we say anything? Aren't you going to say anything?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0235par0270	I don't think it's right, do I?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0236par0271	Mr. Kerestecioğlu, I promised Mr. Private.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0237par0272	Look, he's still picking on me. He says: "They call you men, do we say anything?" I'm sorry, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0238par0274	Mr. President, thank you. We listened carefully to the statement made just now by David Turan. When it comes to insults, when it comes to criticism, he says there should be no discrimination between men and women. This family minister should not be told all her defences when repeated by her own Home Secretary in the past. We find it very meaningful that a party founded as a group deputy should be retributed.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0239par0277	I don't think it's worth answering, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0238par0278	We also view it as a moral issue, whether it is a man or a woman on the stand, when a member of parliament uses a word such as "moral" against criticism from the stand. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0240par0281	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0241par0282	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0240par0283	Here you go, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0241par0285	Mr. President, first of all, when I was speaking on this stand, he used the expression of the speaker who thought he was an MP. My entire reaction has been based on this expression. This expression is not the right expression. And I'll tell you again, I'll make it worth your while. Second of all, I'm sorry, Mr. Special, but the HDP can defend itself. What's in it for the special? Nothing special falls here.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0242par0287	This is Congress, Congress, it's got to be everyone's business.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0241par0288	There's no need to get a part here. If there's anyone who can get a part in me, he'll go out in private and tell me what he needs to talk to my friend about. There is much to be said about the specifics, so I'll make sure of that for now.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0243par0290	Mr. Sergeant, every congressman has the right to speak against any wrongdoing done here. Therefore, Mr. Special has made an assessment of the insult, which is perfectly normal.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0241par0291	I've done my evaluation, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0244par0292	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0243par0293	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0244par0294	Mr. President, the point is, this is bad, it's a matter of thirty years before a graduate student...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0245par0295	You're the deputy leader of the HDP group?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0244par0296	The fact that these expressions are used to one person indicates, indeed, another person's moral problem.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0246par0297	What's it to you?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0244par0298	The real problem is, he said: "When a statement is used, it is not right to separate a woman as a man."
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0247par0299	This isn't about me, Mr. President. He's not scratching, he's insisting on me.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0244par0300	As a whole group, it is clear that a party has now fallen into the position of setting up a whole issue because the expression used by your late Interior Minister was used by a female minister.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0248par0301	It's up to you to defend HDP!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0249par0302	What do they care, where do you open it now? What's it to you?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0248par0303	It's up to you to defend terror!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0250par0304	I made a promise to get him on the books.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0251par0305	Yes, Mr. Special. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0252par0307	We don't think it's worth answering, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0253par0308	The HDP group's deputy president has spoken!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0254par0309	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0255par0310	Mr. Ironel, please.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0254par0312	Mr. President, it's being rephrased again and again. I'll make it very clear from here that the words that the men's lawmakers in this parliament use against women in private... that we, whoever uses them, have stated that we don't accept sexist rhetoric, and we express it over and over again. Mr. Congressman, if he's taken over, he wants a say in the matter, he says he's being bullied, he gets up, he answers from the stand. We'd like to say that there is no way that bullying or using different words is appropriate in this Parliamentary culture. We express it, thinking that this Parliament should be purged of the male dominant mentality of Parliament's culture.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0256par0313	Well, don't say anything from the podium. Think about it.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0254par0314	I mean, this is what the AKP Group has become a habit of. Unfortunately, the AKP's deputy group leader has also confirmed it.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0256par0315	Of course they'll react. So what are they gonna do?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0254par0316	We're saying once again that we don't agree to this.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0257par0317	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0258par0319	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0257par0320	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0258par0322	I'd like to answer for his statement about the deputy leader of the group. See, this is not an issue of extension. The fellow on the stand made the wrong statement, and then our friend reacted more than perhaps.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0259par0323	It's not a reaction, it's an insult.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0260par0324	What if you love God's reaction? That's a reaction!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0259par0325	The insult, the insult...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0261par0326	We warned, we talked, we shut it down, but...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0262par0327	Mr. Turan, if Mr. Sergeant is taken personally, he has the right to answer from the bench. That's what we're trying to express.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0261par0328	Mr. President, my throat hurts. I can't speak very loudly. And I'm not finished, so will you excuse me?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0263par0329	You're hearing it loud and clear.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0262par0330	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0261par0331	Please... I can't talk, I don't sound good today.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0262par0333	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0261par0334	Look, Mr. Vice President has just expressed his criticism of the stand. Whereas we know people who, let alone abuse the stand, who occupy the bench, who walk on the bench, who insult no one.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0264par0335	We're talking about today. We're talking about today.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0265par0336	You did it.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0261par0337	So, there's a saying here...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0264par0338	Don't tell me the world isn't a ball of fire.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0266par0339	Twist, twist.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0261par0340	... The whole group had a different attitude about it. I'd like to point out that we don't find it right.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0267par0341	Well, thank you, Mr. Turan. Dear friends, look, if there's an insult to a congressman or there's a different statement, the MP will take the stand, respond, make his speech. But here's something else we've seen today that we've seen: here, during the speech of Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş, I don't think it's right for Mr. Sergeant to call himself a prude, and I don't agree.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0261par0343	No, Mr. President, it's not like that.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0268par0344	You're deflecting!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0267par0345	On behalf of the Court, I express it. I'm saying it's not appropriate for a style like this. Mr. Group Vice Presidents have already made a statement. Mr. Beştaş has a request for a word. Here you go, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0269par0349	Mr. President, for one thing, the cameras are recording. The MP's position, at the time, could also be identified by the camera footage of him speaking with the group's deputy president in a manner of mocking him. I didn't mention anything other than my own agenda in my speech, but because of their attitude... And I'm particularly returning to them the concept of the immoral. I'd never let myself fall to their level for not showing their maturity to apologize, but the biggest vice is to stand by it, and I say here to continue this attitude, and I thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0267par0350	Well, thank you, Mr. Beştaş. Members of parliament, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 1, Mr. Hüseyin Yıldız.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0270par0356	Mr. President, my esteemed deputies, we celebrated Mother's Day on Sunday in a country with 17 million poor people, a country with 6 million unemployed. We all know how upset mothers are, how unhappy they are. For this occasion, I celebrate the Mother's Day of all women, and kiss them by the hand of all the mothers. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time we've come across the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs. Although we've already submitted two motions, although we've already submitted a question motion, I'm afraid they haven't responded. My fellow lawmakers, the Great Menderes Basin is the most important basin in the region. The minister knows it himself, he's opium. He is born in Dinar, and comes to the Aegean Sea after the footman, Denizli, and Denizli, and Aydın after Aydın. Yes, I've always imagined that the minister is very interested in both the forest and the water. A river that was born in its own country... and there are 2.5 million people in that river basin, 2.5 million people. But I regret to say, as the footman passes through the footman and Denizli, the industry there, the tannery, where we call the place where the skin is made -- he leaves all that filth in the river, and it turns and comes out. And all the fruits and vegetables and fruits grow in that basin. About two and a half million people live, dear friends. But for what it's worth, Mr. Minister of Environment and Urbanism can't control those factories, and you have to develop them when you're licensed. Despite it being said, they don't have a cleanup, but still, they're well-advised and they smell all the way up to the Aegean. As if it wasn't enough, Mr. Minister, you know in Aydın... a law was passed in 2007, you removed the CED report, you removed the CED report to the geothermal power plants. Right now, all the dirty methane water from the geothermal power plants in Aydın is flowing into the Great Menderes River, and 19 kinds of plants and vegetables in the Plain of Aydın, which I regret to say, we are now living in poison. Dear friends, the area of the basin is 24,873 kilometers, water area is 1.732 kilometers. Main livelihoods are livestock, agriculture, industry, tourism. The number of people living in the basin, again, is about 2.5 million, as I just said. 79% of the water used in the basin is used for agriculture, 21 per cent for industrial and domestic purposes. Dear Minister, while you're here, please, I ask you to call the Director of Agriculture Aydın County, call the State Waterworks District Manager, call the State Waterworks County Manager, tell him: "Go and take a water from this Menderes, take a test of how healthy he is. They'll let you know how healthy he is. I'm sorry to say, we've complained 10 times, but the State Director of Environment and Urbanization said, "Mr. Deputy, we're going, we're going, we're testing. Yes, an unhealthy water is a water that shouldn't be used in agriculture, but there's nothing we can do. Look, there's the China Dam that was started in the time of the ANAP. Look, Mr. Minister, at least open those dams during watering time to prevent this pollution. At least we need to lower that pollution a little bit. Otherwise, all the vegetables, fruits, and people living in that area are headed for cancer; cancer has increased by 15, 20%; you can call Aydın. In particular, we brought it back here last week, so we decided to set up a geothermal research commission, and I'm sorry to say, AKP MPs refused. Dear friends, I was in Aydın last week, I was in Germencik, there was a rally, we met with all the friends, we said: So we don't object, set up a research commission or set up in the Ministry, send it over, check that water going through the basin there, and if the pollution rate is appropriate, I'll come and apologize to you here. Because I know that your Ministry is really working, but whatever it is, I would like you to pour it into the Aegean Sea as a minister, clean as a minister, a water that was born in the land. Friends, I repeat: 100 miles deep, 50km wide, the most fertile land in Turkey is the land of Aydın. Those vegetables, those fruits that grow there, if they reflect toxicly and we feed them to our children, 15 percent of our children go to cancer, 20 percent of our children go to cancer. Fifteen days ago, a 16-year-old boy died of stomach cancer. Dear Minister, instruct your bureaucrats, send them to the baneman, send the naval team, close those factories that are not being purified. You're leaving, you're fined $2,000, it doesn't matter to that guy, it doesn't matter to him, it doesn't matter. Dear friends, when we brought them up on geothermals, they got mad at me, and I'll tell you one thing: you're all businessmen, you're business people, you know very well, because they built geothermals with old technology in two years, my friends, in two years. Now, I'm asking Mr. Secretary, in what sense, did you remove that CED report, that law, for what reason, when the geothermal power plants were installed? That's what I want to know. So he's going to invest $20 million in two years, but he's going to pay a million dollars in two years, and he's going to pay a million dollars more, and he's going to do no harm to the environment, and he's not going to spend a million dollars in there; he's going to poison those villages, figs, olives, vegetables, fruit, and the people of Aydın, it's not important. Is this the answer to God? Am I asking you, Mr. Secretary, for God's sake? Mr. Secretary, geothermals, as I said, are supposed to be 40 kilometers from the city life center. You made the law. Five kilometers, two kilometers, they're setting up downtown right now, downtown. I'm with the Transport Commission. Last week, the Aydın MPs said: "We're building an airport in Aydun. I went fifteen days ago and looked for a geothermal license to the place where Aydın Airport was built, Mr. Minister. So you're going to set up a geothermal plant there, and the plane will probably land on the steam, I'm guessing. What kind of nonsense is that, dear friends? You have made Turkey's most productive lands a poison. I repeat: activate your bureaucrats. If you want, let's set up a commission, you give the motion, and I'll sign under it as CHP MP. (CHEERING) You guys set it up, bring it in here, I'll sign it. Friends, Aydın is a city with a population of 1 million people. Do you know what those pensioners who retired in Ankara, İzmir? Let's go to Light, let's settle down, let's retire there. So Aydın gave you four deputies in 2002, in 2007, in 2011, he gave you three, and in 2015 he gave you three. Is this our reward, Minister? I'm asking you... Dear friends, I've been speaking here for three months, and I'm speaking to the AKP people: We support a proposal for a research commission as the Republican People's Party. For him, we love Aydýl, and I am willing to pay whatever price is necessary for Aydın. Thank you all.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0271par0370	Thank you, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0272par0371	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0271par0372	Mr. Secretary, if you want to answer the question-answer, we'll take ten minutes there.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0272par0373	Sure.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0273par0374	Mr. President, I'm a priority. There's a tease.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0271par0375	I know, Mr. Vural. I'll give it to you first, of course.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0273par0376	I'll take it for the bullying, sir, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0271par0377	Mr. Secretary, the members of the group have a motion.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0273par0378	Mr. President, I asked for your word.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0271par0379	Mr. Vural, I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0273par0380	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0271par0381	I mean, I'll give you priority, but you're interrupting us here.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0273par0382	I see.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0271par0383	Mr. Secretary, if you'd like, I'll give you my word on the QA, or if you'd like, Mr. President of the group.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0274par0384	Okay.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0271par0385	Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0275par0388	Sir, thank you. Mr. Free Special, Deputy President of the Republican People's Party Group, has just made a very unsolicited claim on the Council of Ministers that the Minister of Justice has informed and answered questions regarding the parliamentary process of the National Movement Party. The National Movement Party's congressional process is a part of the party, and it has legal dimensions, and the process is in the Supreme Court. So it's really unethical for you to raise such a different opinion about a subject that has been brought to the courts. I would like to point out that I don't think it's right to bring the Republican People's Party's issues and preferences to the agenda of Parliament, and I don't think it's right for another party to engage in the congressional process of nationalist movement.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0276par0391	I never said that.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0275par0392	I told the nationalist movement party that was outside of the law... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to point out that no one or the institution has the right to be involved in this process. No party, structure, class, group, power or political temples need advice, suggestion and protection. I express that in particular. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0277par0396	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0278par0397	Mr. President, I have to take this.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0277par0398	Mr. Special, I believe you have a request for an answer.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0278par0399	Sure.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0277par0400	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0278par0402	It's actually a correction. I'll read the statement. Maybe it wasn't reflected in the report? I said that they were the last party to say that, two weeks ago, Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ gave and presented information on the congressional process of the National Movement Party, and that it was reflected in the press. If that's what's understood here, let's fix it. I didn't say something like that happened here.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0279par0403	I don't think it's appropriate that you...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0278par0404	Yes, deny it, sir. It's not about you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0279par0405	And in that case, he'll need to bring that up about the groups that are involved with you. I don't want you to be so careful about...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0278par0406	Mr. Group Vice President, the issue is something that only happens in the Council of Ministers. If he's going to deny it, the Justice and Development Party will come out and say it didn't happen.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0279par0407	Look, let them say it's not. But I would advise you to use such information with caution in reference to the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0278par0408	I'm using a very careful tone. About that...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0279par0409	I suggest you do.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0278par0410	And we don't think we need any advice at the tipping point.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0279par0411	I recommend it. So I don't really understand why you're involved in this congressional process of the National Movement Party with false misinformation.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0278par0412	We have no intention of doing that. God bless you. We have no intention of doing that.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0280par0413	Okay, Mr. Group Vice Presidents, let's not talk mutually, please. The Minister has a request for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0281par0417	Mr. President, the most valuable MPs...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0282par0418	I didn't say that. I never said that.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0283par0419	How could you not? Here's the report.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0282par0420	I said the man who briefed the board of ministers. I said he's interfering with the internal affairs of another party.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0284par0421	If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0285par0422	I promised the Minister. Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0284par0424	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0286par0425	Was it you in the Council of Ministers?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0287par0426	It's gonna be you. That's understandable.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0284par0427	There was never -- I am a member of the Council of Ministers -- any opinion on the convention of the DP, any speech or presentations, and there was no discussion. The minutes of the Council of Ministers are in the middle. Therefore, there is absolutely no such thing. I say this as a member of the Council of Ministers. We only discuss to-dos at the Council of Ministers. It's on the agenda, it's on the table. Such a thing is never discussed, nor is it, nor is it true. I'd like to stress that in particular.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0288par0428	Well, thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0289par0429	Apologise, Special.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0290par0430	I'll ask you!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0288par0434	Congressmans, the talks on Article 1 have been completed.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0291par0435	Are you withdrawing your statement now?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0290par0436	It's not a statement. It's not a lie. It's a lie. That's good for you, Mr. President, it's not a bad thing.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0288par0437	Dear Private... Now, I'm going to do the QA on item 1. Only one congressman hacked into the system.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0292par0440	No, you have a listening post in the Council of Ministers? Then explain it to me. You carry rumors here, and you think differently about parties. It's really not appropriate.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0288par0441	Mr. Division, we're listening.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0292par0442	It doesn't suit the Republican People's Party. You're such an old party.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0293par0443	We won't be surprised if you're together in the Council of Ministers soon!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0294par0444	It suits you! After the tape operation, everything suits the Republican People's Party!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0295par0445	Mr. Division, we're listening. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0296par0447	Mr. Minister, it has been understood that it is essential for the farmer to use regular water and Rantabl in Adana, to maintain the structure of the soil and to switch to the closed irrigation system in order to increase the product pattern. The farmer's lifeline, Seyhan in Adana, Çazan, Ceyhan and Aslanstone dams, attempts to transfer their operations to the private company will also be a problem. Another important problem is that the Akyatan lagoons are covered in dirty water. The lagoons are the habitat of endangered flamingos, as well as the caretta caretta turtles, a region that has produced nearly 700 tons of fish every season in the past year, but now fish production has dropped to 60 tons. Because of the wastewater in the lagoons, the death of birds and fish occurs. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In this scope, an initiative is required to switch to the closed irrigation system, which is a major factor in our farmer's transition to modern agriculture, to clean water from wastewaters and to clean drainage channels of lagoons. For your information.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0297par0452	Mr. Aydın? No. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0298par0454	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Mersin is a city that most of its livelihood is agricultural, and it cannot sell because of your foreign policies. Today, plums, the apricots of Mutnah, the citruses, are all in the hands of the farmer. But more dangerous than that, the farmer cannot find water to produce crops. You have the promise of ponds in all these villages, particularly the villages of Doruklu, Evrenlı, Çelebili, Mersinin Toroslar district. When will you keep these promises before the election?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0297par0456	Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0299par0457	Today, as you know, it is the 7th month of October 10th, and our association, which was founded as the 10th October Peace and Solidarity Association, visited various groups of Parliament today. Their greatest demand is for justice. Justice, of course, cannot be achieved with the extradition of rights, but in order to ease the pain of its relatives, Parliament must immediately make free of charge to seek their legal rights through a new legal arrangement. I'd like to ask the friends to consider it, so I made a promise. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0297par0459	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0300par0460	Thank you, Mr. President. Because of the disaster in the village of Kokak, Niğde Province, the village has been moved and part of the village has been forced to move elsewhere. The village has been searched nearby. The villagers are victims because the treasure and forest areas are not included. In this context, the villagers' demand is to move to the village's Nüğde central district or to be given a space where they will reside. There is a feeling that the problem will be resolved if the village is taken into disaster and moves to the central district of Niğde Province with an arrangement to be made. Mr. Secretary, is it possible that if he doesn't move to Niğde, he will be placed in the forest area? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0301par0463	Mr. Secretary, the rest of the time is yours. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0302par0465	Thank you. My esteemed President, my esteemed lawmakers, first, in Adana, the closed system, so we're doing all the projects we're doing from now on as a closed system. For example, Imamoglu Watering is now a completely closed system for watering 75,000 hectares in Adana. But in the other plains of Lower Ceyhan and so on, because the jeans were not available there, the classic system has been planned as an open system in the past. I went to Adana a month and a half ago, and there was a request for a study. Our friends are studying, but make sure that all the waterings after this are closed. I've instructed them to do so. In fact, right now, the Imamoglu Watering, the Plains of Misis, is moving very fast. Other than that, of course, we're protecting the caretta caretta. I'm going to look at those lagoons. Hopefully, they're... they're already protected by nature protection and national parks. I'll do what I can by looking at those lagoons. If you have any further advice, I'd appreciate it if you'd let me know. Sir, Mr. Horseman, we're actually building several dams, ponds, irrigation facilities in Mersin, so you know that. Right now, all the ponds I promised will be built, even closed systems in the irrigations. I'll send you a very detailed e-mail on this matter -- you already have an e-mail.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0303par0469	Do I have your word, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0302par0470	A promise is a promise, so it's a promise, we'll do it. We, all of my representatives, have now finished 1,000 ponds and irrigations in a thousand days; now, by 2019, we will meet all demands of citizens in Turkey. Indeed, for him, we will fulfill the demands of Mersin and other provinces. I know about Niğde Ulukış. I, you know, Congressman, the last time I went to the nation, the matter came up. We'll see, we'll have to find a place in that village. If there is a disaster in forest areas -- the AFAD and the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism -- there can also be a place in the forest, according to legislation. Let's examine this, take a look at it with our Nüğde MPs. I'll talk to the AFAD president and the Minister of Environment and Urbanism, and we'll get this over with. I mean, I'll follow. Here's the other speech from our Admin MP just now. I'd like to say a few words. Sir, we made the biggest investments in Aydın. So, right now, the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs has invested about 25 billion euros in Aydın. We finished the Adnan Menderes Dam in China, which has been dreamed of for a hundred and fifty years. The Karacasu-Dandalaz Dam, the Twin Dam, all the dams, ponds, irrigation facilities were built in our time. I mean, it doesn't water from the Great Menderes, often from dams, the Belt Dam, here, there, other, previous dams, like the Karacasu-Dandalaz Dam, and in this regard, we've established a working group of works that is related to the Great Menders, with a commission, with all the provinces. I'm the president of this myself. In fact, for the moment, I give you another good news: I personally follow the quality of water in some of the stations in Menderes the Great from my room. We're taking the necessary precautions. Look, the Great Menderes was full before. For the first time, you know, cleaning up the Great Menderes River, doing a big study, you know, really introducing machine work, you know, even, you know, just before the Great Mendezes River fell into the sea, with a rare tire, inflatable boat in the world, you know, where the Ministry of the Bafa Lake was able to transfer water to the lake and invest all the drinking water in it. I'd like to thank you, to be honest. Right now, we did the irrigation there. Who supplied the drinking water of the city there, the city and its neighborhood? We built the treatment facilities from the Twin Dam, the lines of the Jesus. Besides, when I said don't get dirty... Look, we don't do wastewater treatment as Ministry, but we can punish. For example, what I'm asking you to do is to tell the mayor of the city... how many neighborhoods are running directly into the Great Menderes right now? Your duty is to the Enlightenment Water and Sewer Management. Why don't you do that? I think I'd be more grateful if you asked me that question. So it is incumbent on us to do whatever must be done to Aydın. As a real son of that region, I also care deeply for Aydın. I suppose all the Enlightenment appreciates that. Besides, there's one thing we need to do now. Nazilli and his neighborhood have a drinking water problem, which, God willing... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me for a moment...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0304par0479	Mr. Secretary, please complete.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0302par0480	If you make a positive distinction for the fathers.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0304par0481	I did, Mr. Secretary. Just a minute.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0302par0483	So he's the only one left. I've been tracking the projects myself. From Karacasu-Dandalaz Dam, the D1 isale line will also provide a system of drinking water to 2060, including a modern additional drinking water treatment plant and the entire area from Jesusbeyli to the Denizli border. Then our work will be done, and that's what we promise. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0304par0485	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0305par0486	May I have your word?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0304par0487	Mr. Star, come in.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0305par0488	Mr. Minister just said: "We built the China Dam. The dam to China was built in the time of ANAP. The small shortcomings were made by Mr. Minister, one. Two, we just spent 25 billion dollars, he said. I wonder where they spent 25 billion on Aydın.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0306par0489	He's a million.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0305par0490	He said 25 billion, that's what he said.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0307par0491	I'll send you his list.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0305par0492	Mr. Aydın knows that during the election last year, this draining channel... Mr. Minister, 2002-2016, it hasn't been cleaned once, but it may be that you're auctioning it out there, you've paid the bill, they didn't clean the channel because you didn't check it out, but I've invested $25 billion in the morning. If you're telling me, why don't you let me see it? Otherwise, I'm not living in Aydın. I'm curious about him.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0307par0493	I will send you water which you drink.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0308par0494	Well, Mr. Secretary will send you in detail, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0309par0495	Mr. Secretary, four years ago we were going to fish in Gediz. Gediz is still dirty. We'll fish in the Gediz, Minister, I'm waiting. Come here, come here, I'll take the bait, Mr. Secretary. Pollution has spread over the Plains of Meneum, pollution.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0308par0496	Congressmans, we have completed the question-answer process on Article 1. Now I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Article (2) ▪ This goes into effect in the history of law publishing. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on Article 2 Mr. Mahmut Toğrul of Gaziantep. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0310par0504	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers and fellow workers of the General Assembly, I salute you all. Dear friends, I have made a promise regarding International Agreement Number 29. When I look at the title of the agreement, I really get the feeling that the Republic of Turkey is beginning to care about pluralism. Because this agreement is not between the Republic of Turkey and the Belgian government, but with the government of Belgium, the government of the French community, the government of Valonia and the French community of Brussels-Prime District, and with these communities, these governments and Turkey's cooperation in education, sports, culture, art. Dear friends, today in Europe, or rather in the world, the growing trend is pluralism. The pluralist is trying to live together, all the differences together, without changing each other, without forcing each other to change. A negative example is always given, and Yugoslavia is said to have been torn apart. But the disintegration process of Yugoslavia is more or less similar to the internal problem that currently exists in Turkey. What accelerates the process of disintegration of Yugoslavia: Yugoslavia has gone through a process of disintegration as a result of pushing Serbia into a very different, multicultural, multiethnic society, Serb culture. As I said, Turkey is now unfortunately a hundred years of monogamous, seeing everything alone, destroying all differences, melting itself in a hundred years of single paradigm. Turkey, however, is a multicultural, multiethnic, multi-religious, multi-religious, almost multicultural geography that has been printed on almost a lot of cultures. Thus, differences in Anatolia are not really the cause of dissolution, but the opposite, differences are a means of integration; differences are to accept each other as they are. Today, Turkey now has to evolve into a civil war because a hundred-year monogamous paradigm, unfortunately, is breaking down in Turkey. Turkey is pluralist, its management is... See, in little Belgium, here are three different groups based on managing their culture, their language, their territory. What we're saying is that that's actually what democratic autonomy is, is a system based on different ethnities, different regions, its culture, its own language, its own self-management in the region. Now, no matter where you look, there are 25 to 30 million Kurds in this country, but even Kurds who were previously destroyed from their biological existence still can't train in the native language. However, special cultural programs are now being implemented in the world for the survival of all languages, projects are being developed in the hands of the European Union so that languages don't die, cultures don't die. The week we're in today is Kurd-ling Day Week, dear friends. In 1932, Mir Celadet Bedirhan was celebrated as the Kurdish Festival of May 15th, the day when he first produced the Kurdish alphabet and Hawar magazine in Damascus. We also refer to this week as the Kurd-ling Day Week, but unfortunately today, around 30 million people who are their citizens are still unable to study in their own language, are under a lot of pressure because they speak their language or want to use their own language. Just two days ago, the footman was lynched on the grounds that they spoke Kurdish. Now, this single paradigm is no longer holding stitches. This single paradigm will no longer hold us together in this country. Instead of this monotheistic paradigm, we need to make a pluralist, accepting differences, taking on a sense of self-inflicted wealth. This is actually the basis of the recent conflict in the region, which is the singular paradigm. We -- as I said -- with a pluralistic paradigm, we have to see our differences through pluralism as an instrument of our wealth, and we have to grow it. The differences are being tried to be seen as a cause of division. It's not like that, dear friends; on the contrary, when our differences are brought forward as our wealth, we evolve into an understanding that combines, fuses, enriches different cultures, into a social structure. Dear friends, on the other hand, we negotiate with the European Union every day through refugees. Through refugees, give us 3 billion euros if you don't; if you don't, you're on your way, I'm on my way. Every day, in fact, we're being adjusted to our foreign policy by the President, who is not the head of the administration. In fact, he's trapped, trapped inside with massacres... and today he read the decision made by my last orator friend, the United Nations. A negotiation between Europe and refugees is being developed as a way to overcome its own internal tightness. Dear friends, this negotiation is not moral, human, conscientious. We don't just use Syrian refugees as a tool in foreign policy, we also use them as a tool in the country. Unfortunately, there's an effort today in the region today, by putting these refugees inside the Alevis, within the Kurds, to disrupt the demographic structure of our opponents, and to design them in our own way, in our own internal law, and perhaps to give them an advantage in the future. For days there have been studies on visa-free entry with the European Union, laws have been tried to be passed, but, dear friends, none of these laws, unfortunately, are really, not the things that were done for the introduction of this country to modern civilization, to the European Union, but to do the opposite and to design it ourselves and, as we know it, to do politics on its own. Today, in fact, when the government is in effect collapsed, the Council of Ministers is in effect not functioning, in fact the AKP government does not rule Turkey. The Prime Minister's powers are being restricted. Currently, Turkey has been without Prime Minister since 4 May. Turkey is currently, without the Prime Minister, and the Parliament, as a whole, as a result of orders from the palace, is being processed and employed here, as well as here, as it is working here, to nullify, meaningless, and increasingly dominate the one-man dictatorship. With orders from the court, I'm afraid the House has been unable to function. The agenda of the House can change at any moment, every day. They've been talking about the future of the political ethics law for days, but it just won't come. When we came in this morning, they said the power market law was coming, but it didn't. Because the Parliament is not really wanted to be employed, the Parliament does not work in order to rule the one-man dictatorship by being shut down here. A perception like this is intended to be fed to the public of Turkey. Dear friends, this policy, unfortunately, is the final destination of Turkey. Turkey is moving fast towards its one-man dictatorship. In front of this, HDP is the obstacle, and it will continue to interfere. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0311par0522	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 2...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0312par0524	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0311par0525	Mr. Incescuz, here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0312par0526	I'm just saying, for the record. We never accept what you just said. The paradigm of one man... We deny them. From the first day we came to power, we are a party who considered our differences to be wealth, said it, and carried it out as politics; we can't possibly accept it. The authority, the dictator... are their own imaginations. In the hearts of the nation today, Mr. President, who is worthy of the gratitude of our nation, he will never lose his credibility in our nation with this kind of perception management. We don't accept any of these accusations. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0311par0528	Yes, Mr. Incescuz, it's on the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0313par0530	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0311par0531	Mr. Ironel, please.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0313par0532	In the speech of the vice president of the group, we're dealing with a direct assault on our group. It means that all of the things we're expressing are dreams...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0314par0533	Not all of them.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0313par0534	It's like we're having a conversation by expressing imaginary things. On the stand with him, about the bullying...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0315par0535	Mr. Demirel, without using the bench, has stated only for the record.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0313par0536	But he picked on me, he picked on me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0315par0537	And for the record, you can answer from your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0313par0539	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the statements we use, yes, we say them all the time. There's an understanding leading this country to a dictatorship, and that's what's being done right now. So a prime minister, like I wanted, the cabinet of ministers, as I wanted, is trying to build a design for Turkey as I wanted, and the palace says it wants to do so as a dictator by itself. Not just us -- we've expressed this as the People's Democratic Party over and over again, and we've been right -- it seems, as of the last May 4th -- the whole world has seen it, not just the people of Turkey, but the whole world has seen it. I want to end it with the promise of the village. Everyone knows it and everyone sees it. There's a government and a sense of a palace trying to lead to a dictatorship. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0316par0542	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Members of parliament, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 2 of Article 2 of the People's Party, Mersin MP Aytuğ Atcı.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0317par0545	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the CHP Group on the 2nd Article of the State of Turkey and on the 2nd Article of the Law on the Approvement of Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the French Society, the Government of Valonia and the Committee of the French Community of Brussels-Personal Region. As terror increases, I salute all those who do not rejoice about science and culture, who do not feed on terror, blood, tears, and terror. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, does our country have any major problems? Of course I do. Does terror hurt? It burns. Is the church on fire? It burns. Are the farmers of Mersin, the farmers of Turkey, broken backs, crying blood? Yeah, he's bleeding. Who will overcome these problems? Well, the government that runs the state needs to come. Is there a government? There's both, there's no image, there's no sound. On one hand, the government is trying to become a state, and on the other, the government is trying to become a state that needs to run the state. So, today, may the Prime Minister gather the Cabinet? Is there such a gallantry, such a youth, the Prime Minister? I'm gathering the Council of Ministers today. If he says, for God's sake, will you laugh, won't you laugh at the Prime Minister?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0318par0550	We're laughing at you, you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0317par0551	You're a group that can't even have a band meeting. What are you going to rule? But you try to laugh at us, turn around and laugh at yourself.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0319par0552	Today is May 10. You cry on your own, CHP, cry on your own.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0317par0553	Everything in this country seems to be normal, Zatimuhterem, going on a farewell tour. There's no government, we're trying to make a law here. May 4th, you failed to claim your Prime Minister who was deposed by the coup d'état, history will write it down. We're dealing with a group of people who have surrendered their will, who don't respect national will, and who don't have the power. In today's terms, a coup was carried out by the President by abuse of powers. Whether you accept it or not, it's called 'darbe', and history will write it as 'darbe.'
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0320par0554	Are you saying this as CHP Group?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0317par0555	You know why? Look, I'm reading to you the definition of the Turkish Language Foundation: "It's a coup to put pressure on a country and force it to listen well to it: take advantage of it in democratic ways or to resign the government or to overthrow the government in a way that changes the regime." That's how the Turkish Language Agency described it.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0321par0556	It's for the CHP.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0320par0557	Has this been done to CHP?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0317par0558	Now, did the government fall down or not? Was the coup taken or not? What are we discussing? Please, stop...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0321par0559	What were the Republican rallies in this country? What are the republican rallies you've been supporting?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0320par0560	Did you tell the CHP what you said was done?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0317par0561	At least shut up, and at least remember the concept of edep, and at least shut up, my friends. You accuse those proud young men of the Travel Resistance, you cause them to die, you put many of them in prison, you accuse them of being coupters. On the other hand, you've created Ergenekon, sledgehammer, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, many coupgers.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0322par0563	You defended them all, didn't you?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0317par0564	None of them were able to make a coup, but Mr. President was able to strike. Let's see what you do. Don't let anyone talk about it. Look, we didn't vote for Mr. Prime Minister, we didn't vote for Mr. President as Republican People's Party MPs...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0323par0566	Swear, swear, swear you didn't vote for the President!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0317par0567	...we didn't vote for the AKP.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0323par0568	He gave one of the two to the President, swear.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0317par0569	However, our nation...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0324par0570	He gave it to HDP (HDP).
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0323par0571	He must have given one of the two to the President, swear, swear.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0325par0572	Sergeant, don't be rude, sit down!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0326par0573	...because he voted for Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we initially accepted him as legitimate President, and since our people voted for Davutoglu, we accepted him as legitimate Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0323par0574	Poor, poor thing.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0325par0575	Sit down, Sergeant, you've made your point. Sit down.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0327par0576	Level here, level here.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0328par0577	I mean, whether we like it or not, he's our Prime Minister, and he's our President. I mean, it's not your internal business; it's my country's problem.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0329par0578	First, Deniz Baykal...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0328par0579	You have no right to lower the head of my country.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0329par0580	May 10th is the day of the coup to the opposition party, you can't forget.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0328par0581	Instead of speaking from there, keep my country's head high.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0329par0583	May 10th is a coup to the Republican People's Party, a coup to the parallel structure.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0330par0584	The parallel is equal to you on its name.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0328par0585	While the country was on fire, you stood up and brought in a bill of laws on culture, education and science. The country's on fire, the country's problem, is it cultural problems now, the country's problem is scientific problems now? You're bringing me a deal like this. It's a shame. You bring me education, science, culture while people burn, this country goes without government. Would that suit you? Of course it does. Because you want to keep the House and the people busy. So, you want to stall, you have a majority of fingers, you bring this, what do you bring? Item one, listen up. If any of you read this, if you pass 10 percent, I'll have someone pull my ear out, and I know you haven't read it. The 1st article says: "Sir, we will protect artists, we will encourage art." You say, "God Almighty, we will protect the artist from the other side while you spit into art yesterday and call art." You say, "Whatever it is, we will protect the artist from the other side of the European Union." Here you go, item one.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0331par0587	It's not art, it's not an artist, it's a freak, it's a freak.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0328par0588	Do you believe that you will? You don't believe me. What's worse than worse? I do. Article 3 says: "We love the book very much, we will increase the libraries, we will protect the librarians, we will change the librarians." For God's sake, aren't you a mindset that collects books that aren't published? Why on earth would you give me an increase in libraries? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, for God's sake, Article 8, you're saying that we're going to cooperate with the French in the area of cinema. He's telling you to cooperate with the French in the cinema?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0332par0592	We're doing what they want us to do.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0328par0593	Is he saying go make a movie over there? Guys, he's not expecting that from you. What do you do when you don't expect it? You're letting the talking artist in. After that, you wake up and say, "I will support art, artist, movie lover."
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0332par0594	What talking artist was let in? Tell me your name.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0328par0595	Who'd believe you? He won't believe it, not even the kids. Look, in the field of education, you're saying...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0333par0597	They believe in us and they don't believe in you, you!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0328par0598	Article 10, I didn't write this. You signed the gold, and you're about to raise your hands. You're saying that we're going to do important work in middle school, professional technical, commercial, tourist education, do good work, exchange documents, do modern education. You wrote it! You're the one who signed for it. For God's sake! You're not a hypocrite, you're a ten-faced politician, you know that? I'm just telling you what you're doing: going to the French to tell the French about the project to take our little babies to school and to mosque one day for four days in Mersin? Now you're going to say, "Hey, are you against the mosque?" No, we're not, we're not against any places of worship, we respect all of them, but I learned how to worship from my father, I went to school four days, and one day I didn't go to the mosque, and you didn't go. You didn't go to the mosque one day, so you're a heathen, for God's sake! Don't bother with national education. Do you think by opening a daycare center to mosques, by not opening a daycare center in the city, by forcing children to attend mosques, by tying schools to mosques -- one by one -- I give documents to those who desire -- that you will defend Islam? You're gonna go talk to the French, for God's sake! Look, item 17, you're saying that the academics, the faculty, are going to change, we're going to put them in good places. For God's sake, are we the ones who locked up talking academics or are you?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0334par0602	Except for those who support terrorism.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0328par0603	We're going to lock up those academics, then we're going to Europe, we're going to show another face, we're going to smile cute and we're going to support the academics. For God's sake, don't fool us.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0335par0604	Not the ones who talk, not the terrorists, not the ones who talk.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0334par0605	Except for those who support terrorism.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0328par0606	Don't cooperate, at least don't corrupt Europe, let it go, we've been imitating Europe in these areas, don't cooperate, and don't spoil it.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0336par0608	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0337par0609	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0336par0610	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0337par0611	Mr. President, just now, the entire speech of the Hatiman is admissible and incriminating of our group. And I'm also interested in...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0336par0612	I can't hear you, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0337par0613	He's just made a rhetorical and incriminating speech about our group in his entire speech, and I demand to speak according to 69, and I have to answer.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0336par0614	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I promise not to tease you for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0337par0619	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I'd like to thank our group for their patience. For one thing, I'm going to draw a frame of what kind of minor speech was actually made from this podium just now. For one thing, almost today, most of our fellow lawmakers are accusing the process we're going through today as a coup. I just said that in our conversation. Look, you have to open up the contents of the coup when you say "darbe. " Once the coup is done against the nation, the coup against our nation, the aim of the coup is to cut democracy down, stop democracy, suspend it.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0338par0621	You're doing it against people.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0339par0622	He says: "We didn't do Millete, we did it to Davutoglu."
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0337par0623	The coup will eliminate the Constitution. Look, we're still under the constitution of a coup. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I ask my group, and I thank them for their patience: is there such a thing now? You have to understand. In the course of what we've been through today, Mr. Prime Minister, our President, they've seen fit to change a mission, and they're explaining it. Of course, it's impossible for you to understand.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0340par0625	What, is that a thing?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0341par0626	Is that a change of heart? What kind of a change of heart is this?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0337par0627	What's going on, guys? How are they so quiet, so quiet? They are amazed, and in that sense, I thank your patience.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0342par0628	The Prime Minister himself says that my resignation was not my choice, but the necessity was missed, I don't want to resign, the necessity was missed.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0337par0629	That's because when it comes to serving people, you can't possibly understand it. There's one thing I'd like to remind you for the second time, when I say all of this, when I say to Mr. President, I want to take a look at him, a president who's been a servant to his people, who's been a servant to his nation for 14 years, who's been a servant to his nation, who's been elected by the vote of our nation... And I'd like to point out in particular: What is my history? Don't I blush when I say that? Look, there's a change in president on May 10, 2010. I don't believe you're making me say this on the stand. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yeah, well, think about it, on May 10, 2010, then your party's deputy leader -- today your president -- says I'm not going to run. Next thing you know, he's running on May 17th. You know, with your history like this, when the government is here, in its place, talking, when there's no kind of coup, it's a little hard to say. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0343par0636	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0337par0637	Of course, there's no answer in two minutes, so I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0344par0638	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0343par0639	Mr. Horseman, here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0344par0640	Mr. President, now, face your past.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0345par0641	On behalf of the individual, I will answer on behalf of the group.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0344par0642	...two minutes on behalf of the individual...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0346par0643	Well, here you go, Mr. Horseman. Two minutes without picking on you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0347par0645	Don't talk on May 10th, don't talk on May 10th!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0348par0647	Thank you. Dear friends... Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, thank you very much, you've just said some of the things I wanted to say. Yes, the coup is done to the nation, and that's what you're doing. The coup was done to the nation here, to the national will.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0349par0650	You answer the other question, answer May 10.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0348par0651	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, although we fought hard against it, on June 7th, the Prime Minister received 41 per cent of the vote. We didn't want this, I wish he'd gotten less votes. Yet you have dealt with this Prime Minister in various ways and raised the nation's vote to 49.5%. Are you in charge for six months or four years?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0350par0652	That's our problem. You answer May 10.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0348par0653	If you've been in charge for six months, I'll shut up, but you've been in charge for four years. Then, yes, the Prime Minister gets sick, sir, he could lose his life, there would be big problems in the country, he could resign.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0350par0654	We'll worry about that, you answer May 10th! We'll worry about that.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0348par0655	The man says: "My brother, I didn't ask for this myself, but I had to give up the post when I didn't want to. " Did my brother give you this assignment, and did the people give you this assignment?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0350par0656	Come to May 10th! Let's hear it for May 10th!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0348par0657	If people voted 49.5 per cent, it's a coup against the Prime Minister's administration, then what you're doing is a coup against the nation...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0350par0658	Why don't you tell me about May 10th?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0348par0659	But it's strange, just as we have defended Recep Tayyip Erdogan because of what was done in his day because of a poem, it's up to us today to defend your Prime Minister, for democracy.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0351par0660	Why don't you defend the Prime Minister? We're defending it for you!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0350par0661	Speak of May 10th!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0348par0662	Even though there's nothing to defend. It's up to us to defend in the name of democracy, when there's nothing to defend.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0350par0663	Aren't you going to talk about May 10th, May 10th?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0348par0664	Yeah, well, we can't understand you, we don't have a biat culture, so we can't understand. We have the culture of democracy...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0352par0665	There's a tape culture!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0348par0666	...you have a culture of beer, of course we can't understand.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0353par0668	Tell me about May 10th, what happened? What happened?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0354par0669	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0355par0670	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0354par0671	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0355par0672	Mr. President, I'd like to make a promise to respond to the bullying of our group, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0356par0673	What picked on you? What did he say?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0355par0674	Mr. Horseman has responded to the abuse of his own self.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0357par0675	What's been said to the group, Mr. Special?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0358par0676	It's called tape.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0355par0677	Sir, he said the Republican People's Party Group should take care of itself if they want to see something about the coups throughout the entire process.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0358par0678	Look at what? What was that? A tape?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0359par0679	Here you go, Mr. Special. I promise you in two minutes.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0360par0683	Mr. President, thank you for your understanding. Mr. Group Deputy President İlkinur I'd like to say that I find a statement of Incessuk very dangerous, thanking his group for their patience. To this day, when we all go back together, after situations that have been impatient against criticisms in this Parliament, which have been actively attacking against the bench, causing unwanted images, while expressing that they are embarrassed, bored as a group, today, thanking the group for their patience, in fact, to be impatient with the group, to be impatient with criticism, to be impatient with the opposition lawmakers. It means to target the opposition lawmakers who have expressed their opinion, which is extremely dangerous.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0361par0686	Never, never!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0360par0687	The presidents thought it necessary to change the mission! Your president has come out, and I'm sorry about the voters looking all over Turkey. It's not my choice, it's a necessity. He said, it's a necessity.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0362par0688	Tell me how yours has changed!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0363par0689	How did your president change? You took him down with a tape. Where is Deniz Baykal now? You took him down with the tape.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0362par0690	It's a shame!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0364par0691	Your president has been struck. Now, about the person who did the coup, the militia calls it the slave.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0363par0692	Look at the blows inside of you. The AK PARTY continues like lions.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0364par0693	Friend, what kind of servant is this, walking around with 3,000 bodyguards, using 70 times more covered funds than usual? What kind of servant does he have, five private planes? What kind of servant is this; 1,300 vehicles, 800 advisors, one hand in oil, one hand in honey? He came in with one ring, and his son had seven ships to serve! Is that even possible?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0365par0695	Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0366par0696	Don't be ugly!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0367par0697	Well said!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0368par0698	Friends, look, we are also opposed to the insult of the Justice and Development Party against worthy, conscientious, honest lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0369par0699	It's your birthday, May 10th!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0368par0700	I see, the prime minister's candidates are screaming. You're describing your profile. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Your lowest profiler will rise, step forward, make him Prime Minister!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0369par0704	You were born today, you were born May 10th, you were born!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0370par0705	But he was born premature!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0371par0706	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0372par0707	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0371par0708	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0372par0709	I'd like to point out to my group that I never meant to do that. What I find dangerous is...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0373par0710	Special, born on May 10th, but you're premature, man!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0374par0711	They'll make you prime minister at your level!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0375par0712	Mr. Inecubine, you're not being heard at all.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0376par0713	It's an insult to our president and his family in the first place... not to confuse his family here when we're talking about those who have not been in Parliament before.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0374par0714	If there is, sir, he's already suing; he's looking at the report, he's suing.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0376par0715	I'm saying shame on the vice president of the group.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0377par0717	Okay.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0378par0718	That's it, that's it?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0377par0722	Congressman Burcu Koksal will speak on the 2nd article on behalf of Afyonkarahisar MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Rootsal, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0379par0725	Mr. President, the high-profile MPs, unfortunately, are in the middle of our country's situation. The country is on fire; on the one hand it's a terror, on the other it's the troubles of our citizens. The shopkeeper, the farmer, the retired, the worker, the citizen from all sides, is troubled. But if you could touch the public, you would understand their troubles. We don't expect anything from you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0380par0726	Is that what the CHP says? Is that what the CHP says?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0379par0727	On May 3rd, the pensioners acted at the Dikmen Gate to get their rights, but what happened? Mr. Secretary here said: "That's how it is in the West." I'm old enough to retire. We can't give them their rights. Unregistered teachers, non-assigned medics seek many teachers and medics every day. (When will we be appointed? For all those years we've rotted our elbows, what's going to happen to us? You said you'd pray for service before closing municipalities close. Now the citizens of those municipalities don't pray but curse you because they don't get enough service. Look, my constituency is Afyonkarahisar. Our Minister, Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs Veysel Eroglu is also from Afyonkarahisar. We have drowned in the ministry, and we cannot find a village to serve. He said in a program he attended. If you want, I'll count those villages, villages that can't get service:
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0381par0731	Count it.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0379par0732	Look, in Alanyurt village, it's not chlorine, it's normal, it's water from the tap, it's drinking water, it's water for the citizens. And we have to drink this water, our citizens in the area. You've had the right, not the chlorine, the blurry, even the appearance of the water that you hate. I wonder, do you consider this water a punishment for the 1st coming out of the Republican People's Party? Opium Sugar Factory signed a principle that employs extra workers two hours a day. You know why? The workers there sacrifice their lives, their lives, and work two hours a day overtime so that their factories don't shut down, just so our bread can't be privatized. And we have workers there who have worked as temps for twenty-five years, so you don't hire them, why? Twenty-five years, five months and twenty-nine days a year, six months out of work; is that right or right? No pensions, no severance pay, no tip settlements. On the one hand, the shortage of qualified employees, the lack of staff, the workers you employ as temps on the other side. Do you know about them? Do you listen to their troubles? And the village of Alanyurt, which I just told you about, there's a road between Eskişehir and Eskişehir, in the district of Iscehisar, which has not been done for years, and by your authority, you don't vote for AKP, why should we? Why don't you do it this way? I wonder when it's going to happen. Look, we have Yunus Emretown in the town of Sanduklı, the power poles here. Every day, citizens live in danger of fire. It touches these trees, when there's power lines and power outages, there's no electricity in this neighborhood for five days, ten days. The belly of the chest, there's no need to go to the village like that, they live without electricity, and when these wires touch these trees, because of electricity, there's always a danger of fire, there's a danger of getting hit. They've complained many times, they've reported it over and over again, and we're going to solve every election period of your candidates, and they're going to ask for a vote and they're not going to come back. When will the power shortage here be resolved? We have Dinar district of Afyonkarahisar Province, where Mr. Ali Özkaya, MP of the village of Yeşilhüyük, visited and said: "We will open elementary school here at the latest in May 2015. We will open elementary school in May 2016. Winds are blowing up where you call it. I wonder if the primary school will actually open. (CHP cheers) We'd like to keep that promise. Look, the village of Yumruca, in the Ark, is a village where we went out first. The mayor is struggling. I'm going to build a village room. You're not giving the man a decent grant. It's not that I don't think it's because the Republican People's Party doesn't pay our headman properly. There's so much trouble in our villages. The report on the Saltic village in the chest... drinks arsenic water... the village of Saltik and you say you will drink this drinking water. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Look, we have a report, an analysis report. You sentenced him to drink arsenic water. Yes, we're sending the Minister of Forest and Water from Afyon. One of the two villages I visit, where I travel, either has a drinking water or a irrigation crisis. For God's sake, is this your service? [[Applause from CHP rows]] And I want to say one last thing. Prime Minister, before the elections...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0382par0744	Mr. Rootsal, I can make a positive distinction.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0379par0745	Yes, please, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0382par0746	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0379par0747	You promised before the elections, you said: "Vote for your brother-in-law Davutoglu." Now, I ask you: What will you say to Afyon?" You're going to tell me that he didn't agree with Sara, he didn't obey, we put him aside. I'm curious.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0382par0749	Thank you, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0383par0750	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0382par0751	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0383par0752	According to Article 69, the speaker also taunted me by saying my name. So, according to the first joke, I'd like to use my right to answer.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0382par0753	Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I promise you two minutes before you mess with me.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0383par0758	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0384par0759	Did you open the school or not? Mr. Özkaya, tell me this.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0383par0760	Congressman, if you'll be patient...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0384par0761	You said you'd open in May 2015. Tell me if this school is open or not.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0385par0762	Mr. Rootsal, let's hear it, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0384par0764	I'll open it, I'll open it. I will open in May 2015.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0386par0765	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0385par0766	Mr. Ozkaya, I'm rebooting your time. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0386par0768	Mr. President, the honorable lawmakers say the school in Burcu Koksal Dinar Greenyurt village has not been opened. In this village, our city general assembly earmarked its funding for the 2016 budget and was laid down 15 days ago. Burcu Hanim, we laid the groundwork 15 days ago.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0387par0770	You said Mr. Ozkaya, I will open the elementary school in May 2015. You promised me an election.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0386par0771	Sir, there's no such thing as... Friends, of course, I'm also sorry that Burcu Haným, as a lawyer, is missing these things.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0387par0773	I don't know what's missing. You said you'd open in May 2015. I visited that village after you and it hasn't opened yet. You said you'd open it. You said you'd open it.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0386par0774	The budgets of the city's general assembly are determined in October. An unsupervised, non-funded job in October is only an imaginary basis for CHP. Other than that, if it's in accordance with the law, the budget will be split. We split the budget in October, and we laid the groundwork 15 days ago. Our children will continue to train in September, God willing, in the village of Greenhulk. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] So, now, every time I see the services of the MP... to Afyonkarahisar, to our boroughs in this great geography, to our villages.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0388par0777	He doesn't know.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0389par0778	Your deputies aren't visiting.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0386par0779	Since 1950, Afyonkarahisar has given the highest vote in his history to the AK PARTY. If CHP had taken 1,500 votes short, Burcu Haným wouldn't be here.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0389par0780	Despite all the votes you've stolen, I've been chosen at Afyonkarahisar.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0386par0781	So, he sees a little afyon karahisar. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I don't want to talk nonsense on this stand.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0389par0784	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0390par0785	Mr. Rootsal, may I have your honor finish, please?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0386par0786	He sees the imaginary words, he sees the citizens, and he casts the vote.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0390par0788	Thank you, Mr. Ozkaya.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0391par0789	Mr. President, there's teasing.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0390par0790	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0391par0791	Mr. President, Mr. Ozkaya has made a mockery of my identity and my identity as a lawyer. I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0392par0792	That's less than enough!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0390par0793	Here you go, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0391par0796	Mr. Ozkaya said that the foundation was laid ten days ago.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0393par0797	Can't you hear?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0391par0798	I didn't say I didn't get kicked out.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0393par0799	Can't you hear? Congressman, can't you hear?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0391par0800	In May of 2015, I promise, your school will be opened at Yeşilhük. And a year later, Mr. Özkaya went out and said, "I couldn't open this school." Instead of saying, "It was ten or five days ago."
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0393par0801	Can't your ears hear? Is there a problem with the ears?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0391par0802	What about your villagers there? What about your Dinar people? You failed to keep your promise, Mr. Ozkaya. As for my legal identity, I've always been proud and honored by my legal identity.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0394par0804	They're building the school, what more do you want?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0395par0805	Is there something wrong with your ears?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0391par0806	I'm also honored to be a Republican People's Party MP, and you're saying that if you hadn't gotten another 1,500 votes, you wouldn't be here. Right, you're right, even though you've stolen so many votes, my Afyonkarahisar countrymen have sent me here, and I will be the voice of all my countrymen, all my villagers, all my Afyonians, all of whom you have not served, all of whom you have separated.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0396par0808	Thank you, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0397par0809	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0396par0810	Here you go, Mr. Ozkaya.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0397par0811	Mr. President, no matter what he says from now on, I won't take any promises. But you did steal the vote. Since he said, there is a charge of the 69th article, which I will not answer, and I will not answer anything else he says.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0396par0812	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0397par0815	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, now, Afyonkarahisar has given us a province with its population, geography, and the strongest support for each term. Mr. Burcu Koksal, Congressman, which ballot did you object to? You're not gonna lie here, you're not gonna say anything unrealistic. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Just say one trunk, and the only trunk you can say is that there was injustice done in that chest. The people of Opiumkarahisar are honorable people, the people of the AK PARTI are honorable and honest, they need nothing, they don't need any false votes. The Afyonkarahisars give us the highest of what they're going to give us. He voted 64 percent, what else is he gonna do? He does, and God bless them all. But if you hadn't gotten that 1,500 votes -- kind of, appreciation -- it would have been AK PARTI 4, maybe a little bit more 5.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0398par0817	Is it bad if he took it?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0397par0818	We Afyonkarahisars, the AK PARTY, don't need to vote or anything else, people give too much.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0399par0819	So you'd steal it if you needed it?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0397par0820	People see you, they see us. And I see more as an injustice to Afyonkarahisar, and as an injustice to our people. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0400par0823	Thank you, Mr. Ozkaya.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0401par0824	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0400par0825	Mr. Rootsal, please.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0401par0826	Mr. Ozkaya has accused you of lying, and I want a say in the harsh bullying.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0402par0827	It's the mufter who doesn't prove to steal votes!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0403par0828	Opiums aren't thieves, ma'am! You can't call opium thieves!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0401par0829	I'm telling AKP, not Afyon, please...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0404par0830	Mr. Rootsal, please, one last time. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Please don't give me another pick-me-up.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0401par0834	Mr. Ozkaya has accused you of lying. We looked at the invalid ballots, looked at them...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0405par0835	Which crate did you object to, which crate?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0401par0836	And we found that most of the invalid votes were Republican People's Party votes, and you didn't put pressure on our polling staff, on our witnesses.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0406par0837	Is there something wrong with your ears?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0401par0838	Opium knows all this, and she knows your service...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0407par0839	Do you have any objections or not?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0401par0840	... He knows where you promise, he knows where you don't come, he knows where you lie. You went and lied to your own people, Mr. Ozkaya, and you didn't answer your chiefs' phones. Go to a Dinar, and visit Afyon, and visit the villages, and see the tribulations. Have a nice day, everyone.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0408par0843	I don't think it's worth answering, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0409par0844	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0410par0845	Mr. Incescuz...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0409par0846	Mr. President, just for the record, if he's making a claim, he's gonna have to prove it, especially when he's talking to his legal identity on this stand. In such a general statement, it is not appropriate to enseminate all Afyon. Thank you, put it on the record.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0410par0848	Well, thank you, Mr. Incescuz. Congressmans, the talks on Article 2 have been completed. Now I'm going to do the QA. Mr. Pitcher's in the system. Mr. Horseman, here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0411par0856	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, a cement factory has been established in the District of Silifke, Mersin Province, Turkey. We opposed this cement factory thinking it would be unhealthy, but the CED report came in and this cement factory went into effect. However, in the CED report that you approved, this cement factory will not go from the city, it will not put the dust in people's lungs, it will make its own way. You said, "They didn't do it, they're going from within the city." Also, you said in the CED report: seals live here, there are 24 hours of work here. You've set the hours, but the cement factory doesn't listen to you, and it doesn't listen to anyone, and it still works here threatening health and environment. I wonder if you're really that helpless.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0410par0859	Mr. Yım is in the system.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0412par0860	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. I got into the system at the last minute because we were really excited to listen to their friends, and we forgot to get into the system. Meanwhile, the chiefs' salaries were $1,300 when they were $1,000; but the forgotten, the promises still haven't been fulfilled. The SGKs of the esteemed chiefs are not being paid. If a Mukhtar doesn't pay his own insurance premium today, he can't go get his medicine, he can't get himself treated in a state hospital. So we demand and demand that the chiefs pay the SGK as soon as possible.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0413par0863	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0414par0864	Mr. President, there's been a promise in the village of Sorkun in the province of Afyonkarahisar, but the carpet hasn't been built yet. In the same way, in our village of Alanyurt, the district of Iscehisar, a rug site has been promised, but the carpet is still not in place. Is there a structure planned like this? That's what we're wondering.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0415par0867	Dear Purchu...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0416par0868	Mr. President, thank you. Minister, Roman Strategy Document was announced last week, 19 pages along with the action plan. They've kept us waiting for 19 pages for six years. However, in 2016, 2017 and 2018, there is no Roman work in the field, and there is no budget. What are we gonna do? I thought you said there was something being done to the citizen -- it's said here all the time -- but there's nothing being done to the Roma, there's nothing on the field. He's kept the action plan waiting for six years, and for three years now, you're gonna have to hold off on the strategy. What are these people supposed to do? Is he breathing or not? Shame on you! Let this state suffer the sins of the Roman child, of the young, of the women, of the children, of the children who stand in the tent. We want action, my friend, we want field work. TOKI is washing our homes, sending us to the tent. TOKI won't give a house, he's destroying a home. Look, TOKI is tearing down our neighborhoods, forcing us to live in a tent, throwing us out of town. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We've had enough of the TOKI. Roman neighborhoods were out of town before, but now they're in the city's most important Rants. Right now, everyone's got eyes, eyes of businessmen, eyes of the industrialist, eyes of the builder in Roman neighborhoods. Sulukule's gone, the oldest Roman neighborhood in the world, a thousand years old, gone. Right now...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0417par0873	Mr. Purchu, you're taking credit for other friends.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0416par0874	I'm sorry, Mr. President. I'm on my own. I'm fighting here. Let not a servant of God stand up and hold him there. Promise me, Mr. President. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, Mr. Economy Minister, please. You said, "Strategy document." You kept it waiting for six years. Look, now, 19 pages of strategy has been issued. Why is that? It's made to look good for a 72-point visa exemption to the European Union, but we can't live, Mr. Secretary. Please, look, we've said it 50 times here, that's enough. We want action-oriented, field-oriented jobs, so don't keep us busy. Look, everybody's listening. I'll talk to him tomorrow, Mr. Secretary. Save us a budget, budget! Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0418par0880	Well, thank you, Mr. Purchu. Mr. Pitcher, you'll be asking twice, but Mr. Star is in the system. I can only promise one deputy, if you want Mr. Star to use it, be my guest.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0419par0882	As you see fit.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0418par0883	Mr. Star, come in.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0420par0884	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, since 2002, we'll be bidding on the Alyn-Marine highway. You said, "It's been 15 years, and yet no nail has been struck." When are you going to start this road? When are you going to tender it? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0421par0887	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, come in. The rest of the time is yours.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0422par0890	The Enlighten-Marine highway... there's a beautiful road between the Enlightenment and the Sealine, crossing that road, being divided. Hopefully, our government -- it's already going to build highways all over Turkey. We're trying to combine all of Turkey's units, all of its dots in the most beautiful way, in the most modern way. However, Mr. President, I'm paying attention to what law we're discussing right now, the number of questions are 29; the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the French Society of Belgium, the Government of Valonia and the Council of the French Community of the Brussels-Regional Region between Culture, Education and Scientific Research.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0423par0892	Was it difficult, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0422par0893	I asked the bureaucrats in the back. Are you familiar with these questions? The friends said: "These matters are matters other than ourselves. We don't know the business, we're representatives of the State Department.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0423par0894	You answer in writing, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0422par0895	The verbal question is...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0423par0896	You represent the government there, and you don't understand foreign affairs.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0422par0897	You, God willing, understand everything, so there's no need for anyone but you. You understand so much, you just don't know your job. You understand everything, you just don't know your profession, but you talk.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0424par0899	High profile.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0425par0900	Our deputies are high-profile.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0426par0901	Are you the Secretary of State?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0427par0902	You know so much that no one else needs to know.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0425par0903	Does that look good on a minister?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0428par0904	Mr. Secretary, please don't talk to me.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0429par0905	Let go, let go, let go, and answer the question of Ozcan, and answer the question of Ozcan.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0430par0906	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, do not stand up and speak.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0428par0907	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0431par0908	Oh, he's adjusting!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0432par0909	No, you are not in the position to make polemics. Answer, and if you cannot give it to him, give it to Özcan.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0433par0910	I'm the one who responds to teasing here. It's not the question...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0432par0911	Yeah, you're polemic!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0433par0912	You don't put me on polemics, you don't call me that, I will.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0432par0913	Yehu, answer the question of Ozcan, O Özcan.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0434par0914	Yeah, who do you think you're talking to?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0433par0915	Look, the congressman there, the congressman, he stood up, we all listened patiently, we never said a word. Why? It's the congressman's right. But until that microphone closes, that right is over as soon as the microphone closes. Why? Mr. President has given the congressman a minute's question-and-answer time. The congressman is excited, he'll defend his rights, he'll express his rights, but there are other ways to do it.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0435par0916	But you've gone too far!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0433par0917	One of the people responsible for the implementation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is you, the group's deputy chairman.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0436par0918	Right.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0437par0919	Where is it?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0433par0920	If you allow a member of parliament who sits next to you to stand up and violate the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the working procedures and fundamentals of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey could unfortunately go to a bad spot. The questions we're asking here... you should probably know that the Civil Code says in the Civil Code: If the matter is excluded, the President will warn you, invite you to come to the point, and if he doesn't come to the point, he'll interrupt the MP.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0438par0921	Mr. Secretary is out of the question, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0439par0922	Mr. Secretary, I'm inviting you to the subject now because you're speaking out of context.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0433par0924	You're right. Mr. President, in fact, you should have used that authority earlier -- I've been standing here for half an hour.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0440par0925	You must've been thinking about this all morning!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0441par0926	Mr. President, you have a lot of people to invite.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0442par0927	I think it would be better if you answered the questions.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0443par0928	I'm glad to remind you, too, that I'm pleased to remind you of your mission.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0444par0929	The neutral president (!) You're not neutral.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0443par0930	In what we're talking about here, instead of warning me, it's your duty to warn the lawmakers who go off the agenda and bring up the issues that are irrelevant because the Civil Code...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0445par0931	It just came to you. It's new.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0446par0932	I'm warning them, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0443par0934	Are you doing your duty by warning me?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0446par0935	But I've warned you now, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0443par0936	Look, we're here to...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0447par0937	You didn't warn me once, you didn't warn me once, not once!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0448par0938	How unbiased!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0449par0939	What is the matter with the Regents?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0450par0940	You don't know what an insult is.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0451par0941	You didn't warn me once!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0449par0942	No hand signals, please, don't do that!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0452par0943	You don't either.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0451par0944	Neither will you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0453par0945	You don't know what an insult is.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0454par0946	Please, Congressmans...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0453par0947	You don't know what an insult is.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0455par0948	You didn't warn me once, Mayor!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0454par0949	You have no right! It's not your place, it's not your right, please!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0455par0950	It's not your right, and it's not yours.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0456par0951	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0454par0952	Don't give me a hand signal, or I'll do it, please!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0455par0953	Neither will you, you're not a teacher here!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0456par0954	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0454par0955	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0457par0956	You just had an invitation.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0456par0957	Look, don't hand-sign a congressman there, and I'll do it. You can't scold him. You're the Deputy Speaker of the House.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0454par0958	He can't do this to me. Mr. Secretary, he can't do this to me.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0457par0959	Don't move your hand.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0456par0960	But you can't shut him up by scolding him.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0454par0961	This is the Court of Parliament, and it's not something that's been done to me, it's a violation of the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0456par0962	Mr. President, your duty is not to silence the MPs, but to protect the law. You're sitting there on behalf of the Speaker. It is not your duty to silence that MP, it is not your duty to threaten him. You're threatening the congressman.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0458par0963	Mr. Secretary, you answer your questions, your questions.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0454par0964	You cannot determine my authority, Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0459par0965	Minister, don't make it polemic, answer the questions.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0460par0966	Look, Mr. President, don't raise your hand, I'll raise my hand. You're threatening me.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0454par0967	He's doing it to me, Mr. Secretary, to myself and to the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0461par0968	He'll invite you to the point from now on, okay?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0462par0969	Mr. Secretary, you haven't answered a question from the beginning, you're making a fuss with the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0463par0970	Answer the questions in the economic field.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0464par0971	Look, when you talk to me, you don't say anything.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0465par0972	Mr. Secretary, speak up, come in.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0466par0973	Yeah, he doesn't know the answer to your question.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0464par0974	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in the matter of the questions asked, the names of our esteemed fellow lawmakers are already on the record, in which case I will answer these questions in writing. We're talking about opium.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0467par0977	That's all you had to say, that's all you were gonna say. What's the need to provoke?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0468par0978	Mr. Secretary, there's been a polemic incident, and I'm giving you an extension, so please complete. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0469par0980	Thank you. So I see no connection between the questions asked and the law.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0470par0982	Yeah, well, you and the State Department had nothing to do with it.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0471par0983	He's telling the truth now. He's telling the truth about God.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0470par0984	This is the State Commission report, you're not the Secretary of State.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0471par0985	Then sit the Secretary of State down.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0472par0986	Mr. Horseman, please do not interfere.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0473par0987	Mr. Secretary, the chiefs will be given...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0474par0988	Mr. President, I'll answer the questions in writing. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0475par0990	Well, thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0476par0991	How does paying the mayor's SEC bonus not concern the Minister of Economy, Minister?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0475par0992	Congressmans, Mr. Secretary has stated that he will respond in writing. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0477par0996	Mr. President, thank you. Now, let's not go any further at this time of night, but Mr. Secretary says the questions aren't relevant. If the government's minister had sat there, the Foreign Minister would have been asked questions. There is no Foreign Minister on the matter of the Foreign Minister, instead of the Minister of Water Affairs and the Minister of Economy, questions are being asked. In fact, if our friends were to ask the Secretary of State a question, then the ministers would be in a difficult position. It's in their field, but unfortunately, Mr. Elitaş -- the group probably misses acting president, and they're a little bit more available -- prefers to make it polemic. What I'm telling him is that I want a budget on your own matter. The fact that a friend stands up, has been missing for years, and he's been looking forward to the problems of a community around here that he's been looking forward to being spoken about. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He had a chance to make a wish. We're all sympathetic. Here, the Minister's approach is not right either.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0478par1000	Mr. President, the group vice president will lower his hand.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0477par1001	Other than that, the group sent me a reference as acting president. Let me put it this way: the deputy head of the group can remind me of what he does or doesn't do. As a former group of vice presidents, I take that criticism very well, but I certainly don't think that Mr. Elitas will have the right to report to the Deputy Speaker of Parliament, and I condemn your behavior.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0479par1003	Mr. Demirel, you've entered the system.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0480par1005	Thank you, Mr. President. So we have to say it every time. Everyone here can express their opinion freely, but I don't think anyone has the luxury of making a scene, not letting anyone else know. I'd like to point out that such an approach is not true either.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0481par1007	That's for you, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0482par1008	He's telling you, if you understand, he's telling you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0480par1009	Now, Mr. Secretary, of course, has the authority to answer questions in his own time. We've been listening to him from here, and we've been waiting for him to answer, but I'm afraid we didn't understand what Mr. Minister was saying because of the AKP Group's bullying. In the AKP Group, there's always a change in men's style and attitude when our female Parliament Speaker takes the stand or directs it. I saw it from the Minister's office, and I actually... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...when he should have interfered with her, Mr. President, warning our deputy is not really an acceptable situation.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0483par1012	But that's a clear point of view.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0480par1013	While we're listening to the Minister, there are both hand-to-hand signs and verbal taunts from the AKP ranks, and there are insults. I want to say once again that no one should agree to this. Thank you, Mr. President. Well, thank you, Mr. Demirel. Congressmans, yes, we just had a polemic experience. To be honest, I am once again condemning the congressman who tried to put me in my place with a hand gesture.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0484par1017	And I condemn you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0485par1018	That insult and the mark was made not only to me, but to the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0484par1019	Don't take it anywhere else.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0486par1020	We expect no action from the opposition.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0485par1021	Here, you can answer from here if you want, Congressman.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0484par1022	I'll answer any way I can, Mr. President!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0485par1023	Of course, go ahead!
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0484par1024	Don't take it personally. I'll give you my answer if you try to give me a hard time.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0485par1025	You gave me a hand signal, Congressman. You gave me a hand signal. It's not your right, and it's not your place.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0484par1026	You can't give a congressman a hard time there. We all need to know that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0487par1027	We demand discipline, discipline, civil law.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0485par1028	Mr. Inceöz, I really don't think it's right for a member of your group to give this kind of speech. As a group of vice presidents, as a female group vice president, I would like to say that I expect an explanation from you. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Mr. Incescuz, yes, please.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0488par1032	First of all, there's one thing we've always said, of course we're the ruling party, we're lawmakers from the ruling party; our friends can criticize, we'll tolerate it, we're mature, but you have to draw the frame of criticism very well. From the beginning of the opening of the House, on the stand under the name of criticism, where we sit, with constant insulting speeches, constant comments of intent, which we just had here, a group of our deputies, a group of our men's deputies, for women's women's women's women's women's congresswoman, has entered into a sense of intent, as you have entered into such an act. I'd like to point out in particular that we don't accept any of this. Of course, I believe it should be in accordance with the gentleness and grace and the tone of the House, the pace of its work. I'd like to remind you once again that I don't approve of any behavior that goes beyond politeness, but in the same way, all lawmakers in the House must act in accordance with the rules of kindness and grace in this criticism. Of course, we see what happens if it is not treated accordingly. This is the first one. And secondly, I'd like to make this very clear, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0489par1036	Mr. Inus, I mentioned something else, and you're making another statement.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0488par1038	I'm coming to that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0489par1039	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0488par1040	So, I would like to point out in particular that the Deputy Speaker of Parliament must continue to work in accordance with the Civil Code regulations while performing his duties there. You've been acting on it from time to time, but I want to make it very clear to you that, as you just did, you have to make a statement on that stand about such a reprimand. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0489par1043	Mr. Tüyöz, look, I told you that the sign that was made to me wasn't true, that the hand signal was made to the Presidential Court, that's what I said, but that's the explanation you made, and I don't think that's the way it is.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0488par1045	But that's not the kind of thing to do. I don't think it suits you either.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0489par1046	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0490par1047	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0489par1048	Mr. Demirel, are you going to make another statement?
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0490par1050	Just a minute... Mr. Group Vice President has testified that we've been reading intent. I mean, I just want to say for a minute that we're not here to read anyone's intentions, we're not reading intent; we're reviewing the practice. There was a practice that just happened here, and there was a behavior, and we took a promise to condemn that behavior, and we express once again that we never accepted it. It's not intent, it's physical behavior. All the public knows it, the cameras are on it, the reports are on it. I'd like to say that we don't accept this kind of behavior, that we condemn it once again. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-10sit04spe0491par1053	Well, thank you, Mr. Ironel. Congressmans, the question-answer process on Article 2 has been completed. Now, I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. MADDE 3. - (1) The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There is no demand for word on Article 3. There is no question-answer process. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. Congressmans, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'm asking members who can't get into the system to ask the technical staff for help, but I'm asking the members who can't get into the system to deliver the ballots to the presidency within two minutes of the scheduled vote, and I'm starting a two-minute period. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the French Community of Belgium, the Government of Valonia and the Council of the French Community of the Brussels-Present Region are in open opinion as a result of a clear vote of ratification of the Co-operation Agreement between Culture, Education and Scientific Research Area: [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Members of parliament, we will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey, which is in the 9th place, and with the Foreign Commission Report and the Government of Turkey, including the Office for Humanitarian Affairs of the United Nations, in accordance with the Agreement on Establishing a Country Office in Turkey. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission will no longer be available, it is Wednesday (May 11th 2016) that the decision is made to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of Wednesday (11 May 2016). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
