tbmm-2016-03-29sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press voting buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been in the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes' time. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit02spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The opening roll call didn't have enough meetings. Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before the MPs begin the talks, we must take a closed session session to be read according to Article 71 of the Interior Charter, which was held in the 59th session of March 22, 2016. Therefore, I'd like to ask the MPs and those who may be present at the General Assembly Hall to clear the hall except for sworn stenographers and sworn officers. After the summary of the report is read, the open session will be held and talks will continue. I'd like to ask your supervisors to assist in this matter and inform the presidency after the hall is cleared.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit02spe0002par0010	Mr. President, why are you taking out the Adıyamans?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit02spe0003par0011	Mr. President, except for the Adıyamans!
tbmm-2016-03-29sit02spe0002par0012	Adıyaman, Adıyaman has not been persecuted like this!
tbmm-2016-03-29sit02spe0004par0013	If our guests would be so kind as to come back soon after they're open.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0004par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey after the closed session. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Servant MP Özkan Yimım, who asked farmers to use tax-free diesel. Here you go, Mr. Yum.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0005par0009	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Court. My fellow congressmen, may I say hello to you all. I offer my respect and love to all citizens of the Republic of Turkey who watch us, watch the screens from the beginning. You know, we finished the budget for 2016 and the budget was completed as of last week. So, what happened in the budget about our farmers, and what's done? How will our farmers' problems be resolved? Unfortunately, at the end of it all, there was no, there was no, there was no, there was no solution to the problems of any of our farmers. And therefore, because of the advantages they gave to our farmers -- especially the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Agriculture -- who made our budget -- of course -- I found them a very good score. (HPP applause in rows) My dear friends, this is what we give our agriculture and transport ministers in particular because of the budget given to our farmers: zero. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Why did we give this zero? I guess we didn't just give it away for no reason. Because you know how much our farmers made -- milk is our most important natural needs -- how much did milk cost today? It's down to 70 cents. Milk costs $1.20. It's down to 70 cents, so... we had a saying, you know, when something was cheap, what were we saying? We said it was a bargain. But what we're saying is, it's not cheap anymore, it's cheaper than milk. That's a new proverb. Now, from the most important expenses of our farmers to fuel fuel, fuel costs. My fellow lawmakers, citizens of the Republic of Turkey, especially our farmers of the Republic of Turkey, all the farmers in Europe, are getting their main costs tax-free, OTV-free, and VAT-free, but how much money does our farmer get from fuel, gas, gas, this tractor, and this harvester? He gets it at $3.50. So this harvester and this tractor uses $3.50, like our own private tools, which we normally use in our own homes. Do you know how the farmer in Europe uses it? In Germany, in France, in Luxembourg, Belgium, Italy, in the Netherlands, without taxes, but in Turkey, a region as large as the Thracian region cannot be harvested because it is more than it produces. So this really needs to be resolved. But since the people who made this budget don't know the solution, we say, "Come on, we'll teach you this. (HPP) O Justice of the AKP, O Prime Minister, O ministers, let us tell you how to make the budget and teach it. Look, there are hundreds and thousands of private yachts in this country. Look, watch out, I'm talking about private yachts, not cargo ships or commercial yachts or yachts that work for transport. So, do you know how much these private yachts charge, fuel, diesel? Gentlemen, as of today, he is receiving from 1.28. And I say, "Come, ministers, you don't know this budget, let's tell our farmer how we don't bring the diesel to the budget of the Republic of Turkey $1 -- look, I repeat -- without bringing $1 to the budget of the Republic of Turkey -- let's give these private yachts a price of 3.5 TL, with the resources coming from here to all of our farmers, without taxes, with no TLV or VA. You'll see, we'll all create Turkey together. Our farmer's face will smile. (Cheers and applause) The face of the Republic of Turkey will be smiling. The citizen of the Republic of Turkey will buy cheaper bread, buy cheaper pasta, produce cheaper tomatoes. Now, that's certainly a way of making the right budget. So, Mr. Secretary, let's tell you about it. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0006par0018	What was the note?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0007par0019	Show me the note again. Let's see the note, the note. How much do you give the government? Show it to the back, there's a looker in the back.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0008par0020	Thank you, Mr. Yim. The second non-responsored statement belongs to Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı, who wants to talk about the problems of temporary and seasonal workers. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0009par0025	Mr. President, I've taken an off-the-book promise on the issues of temporary and seasonal workers. On this occasion, I salute you all. With Law 5620 released in 2007, about 220 thousand temporary workers were recruited. Since the law covers only those who worked for six months in 2006, employees have not been recruited for years, 20, 25 years, especially in sugar factories, tea factories, Forestry Administration, Agriculture Enterprises and Railways. For years, workers who worked as temporary workers, regular workers, campaign workers and seasonal workers have been wronged, victims, and have not been recruited. Temporal and seasonal workers can't retire, and they can't live long enough to fill the number of premium days wanted in retirement. For four months a year, it takes at least sixty years, five months and twenty-nine days a year, more than forty years. Temporal and seasonal workers can't find work when they can't work. How can they get a job for six or seven months? Do you ever wonder how our friends support their families in months when they don't work? In fact, most temps and seasonal workers are actually employed in public affairs. You see, it's strange that when public institutions don't employ these workers, they tend to supply personnel with subcontractors. It's costing the public more. In the event that temporary and seasonal workers are permanently employed, on the one hand, there will be no need for sub-employee application at most workplaces and a tender for service, while the staff issue will be resolved, so there will be increased efficiency in the workplace. These workers, who have been successful for years, have been useful to the workplace with their knowledge, skill, and experience, must be put into permanent positions. Mr. Prime Minister, on May 30, 2015, during the signing of the Public Community Business Contracts Framework Agreement Protocol, the person works for five months and twenty-nine days, taking a break. This affects business productivity and efficiency negatively. He foretold that temporary workers' work limits would be lifted. The 9th article of the protocol was also ruled for this purpose. Minister of Labour Faruk Çelik of that day, we have recorded in the collective agreement that if they are needed at their workplace, we will present the arrangement to the Parliament, not to receive outside services, but to employ these workers. It will be passed quickly. He said so. The Prime Minister and the Minister gave them hope, gave them good news, made promises, even wrote them in the collective contract protocol, but when the election was over, they ignored the workers. Mr. Prime Minister, my dear fellow citizen, look, we're called temporary and seasonal workers who work at the Forest Authority of Ionya, the Railways, Agriculture, the Ereğli Sugar Factory, and the Illuminated Sugar Factory. They say they're disappointed and disappointed by you. They say, "We're not citizens of this country?" They say, "We are not citizens of this country." That's enough, let's get rid of these friends of ours. I invite the Prime Minister to stand by his promise to temporary and seasonal workers. The National Movement Party has brought up staff for years for temporary and seasonal workers working in public, committed to hiring our friends, and has proposed many laws since then. Again, he's offered us laws to recruit our subcontractors. I'm calling from here to the government: let's include temporary, co-operation, campaign and seasonal workers in the draft for subcontractors. Let's give subcontractors and temporary and seasonal workers a position like that, not a mosion, not a fake, like a real deed, and give them their rights. We're ready as the National Movement Party and call it Hodri Square. There should be no discrimination among public employees, no exploitation of the labor of employees. The university graduate workers should also be given rights and staffed for those who have been victimised over the years in the four-access community, deputy, honorary, temporary, paid, part-time status. That's what the law requires, that's what justice requires, that's what equality requires, that's what our beliefs require, that's what humanity requires. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0010par0039	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Manisa MP Selçuk Özdağ, who wants to mention the 7th anniversary of the late Muhsin Yazıoğlu's death. Here you are, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0011par0044	Mr. President, I have made a promise to all of you that the 7th year of the death of the deceased Mohsin Yazıoğlu, who was born in the village of Elmalı in the village of Şilşla district of Sivas. Muhsin Yazıoğlu was one of the rare figures who marked his position on Turkey's political history. There was no political ambition, no love of seats, no property. His sole measure of action was justice, and his only account was his conscience. People like that are role models for our young people, and they rarely come into the world. Dear lawmakers, Muhsin Yazıoğlu would not hesitate to say that he was correct, that he would be a sultan for an unjust cause if necessary, he would walk alone in the right cause. Muhsin Yazıoğlu was literally an alperen. He saw politics not as a purpose, but as a means to serve his faith and nation. He was a man of principle enough to be willing to give his head rather than compromise his country. Dear lawmakers, it's not easy to use a vertebrate and peacemaker language like him. Yazrioğlu had succeeded in becoming one of the two masters of the case and of the heart. We are all a great Turkish nation, never, never ethnically. That's why there were millions of people from all over the world who were crying. At his funeral, I am an atheist doctor, and I have no faith, but I prayed to God because the President of Mohsin believed. That's what Muhsin Yazıoğlu was like. Yebiroğlu was the son of a generation in great pain. He suffered for the cause he believed in, spent seven and a half years in Mamak dungeons, tortured. He converted the dungeons into Medrese-i Yusufiye, and wrote his poem here. Despite all the injustices and torture he's been through, he hasn't sought revenge. He learned from suffering, from torture. He called for a pen, not a gun. That's why everyone's friend, friend, is the head of the Mohsin that he can easily reach. Respected MPs, Yazıoğlu, who put his brave heart into every anti-national plan, responded without hesitation in the 28 February postmodern coup, and also in the 27 April e-mutation. Listen to me, my name is Muhsin Yazıoğlu. Don't threaten me, don't pressure me. We have no fear of anyone but God. We represent national will, and whatever happens, we will continue to stand behind democracy and defend democracy. Where he stood was by the will of the nation. He was always up against the coupters and the guardians. His case was not a rush for the satisfaction of empty pride and ambition, but a suit to justify our political and human lives. He had dreams. All our citizens lived honorably under the moon-star flag; the one who opened its head with the one that lived in the same university without a fight, without a brother; the Kurdish-Turkman, without the Alevi-Sunni distinction, without the rich-fakir privilege, without class, without class. And to his last breath, he sought to fulfill that purpose. He was like a representative of His Majesty Ahmed Yesevi, who lived eight centuries later. He was a humble heart with faith, patriotism, struggle, honesty, and good morals. He had taken Islam's tolerance, the principle of repentance, to be his guide. He was not afraid of death, even death was good in the trials of Abdirahim Karakoç. The honorable MPs, Yazbioğlu, are of the unrestricted nation written here. He has taken his motto and has not strayed from it for a moment. Turkey will not be Iran in the days when February 28th haunts our soul. They won't be able to make Turkey Iran. Turkey will not be Algeria, but no one will be able to make Turkey Syria. He used his expression to refer to Turkey's present days, as if he had seen them. He believed so much in democracy and the will of the nation that in the 1995 general elections Erbakan wanted Erbakan 1st, Mesut Yilmaz 2nd, Çiller 3rd and Ecevit 4th to form a government, and Erbakan and Mesut Yilmaz wanted coalition schools together. Mesut Yilmaz didn't dare. In fact, when we met, he said, "They don't want it." When he said, "Who doesn't want to?," he couldn't speak, he couldn't even talk to the junta men, he showed his shoulders. The Cuntarian did not want soldiers. He wanted to use this expression, such as the meaning. Yazrioğlu said at the time: "I did not intend to enter the government. Let's go into government, let's challenge the sovereign forces together, let's say there's a nation's will in Turkey. Then Erbakan-Ciller supported his government from the outside and wanted nothing, and in return he did not bless the smallest world in return because Muhsin Yazıoğlu believed that democracy, nation's will and sovereignty belonged to the nation without a condition. I've been friends with him for 40 years. We did politics together. The late Muhsin Yazıoğlu was a hero. Yebiroğlu, Muhsin President, bless you with a thousand blessings. I wish to see politicians like Yezbioglu multiply. I also cherish all politicians who have migrated to the past, to eternity. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0012par0056	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. Mr. Vural, you're in the system, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0013par0060	Yes, thank you, sir. As the National Movement Party Group, we, the late Muhsin Yazıoğlu, celebrate the anniversary of his death in the year of his death, and his place will be in heaven. Indeed, Muhsin Yazıoğlu also provided important services as an archipelago. Of course, in that process, he is the one who politely rejected the offer to him in the face of attempts to form a project party, especially in support of the United States, in order to say, "Get out of bed with the elephant." That's what the witnesses at that time said. I wish them God's mercy. On this occasion, I would like to express my condolences to the members of the Great Unity Party, which he founded. In addition, the father of Mr Muharrem Encel, Vice President of the Republican People's Party Group, has passed away. My condolences to Mr Muharrem Encel and the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0014par0066	Let's do it. Let's get the system open. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0013par0068	Yes, the father of Mr Muharrem Encel, former Vice President of the Republican People's Party, has passed away. We offer our condolences both to themselves and the Republican People's Party Group. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0014par0070	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0015par0073	We, the Republican People's Party Group, honor Muhsin Yazıoğlu in the 7th year of his death. We recall that the ruling party's officials on that day promised a state, an honor, a promise that would be made to the full disclosure of a murder-suspected, accidental appearance, but of a murder-suspect issue. At the end of the seven years, we also consider the fact that the smoke screen has not been lifted yet a significant flaw, and we feel that the House should do its part in this matter. It was the anniversary of the death of Veysel the 21st of March, and we remember Veysel the lover once again the man of the heart, the man of the heart, who saw and said that none of us could see with his blind eyes, and stole what he could not express. Also, the esteemed fathers of our Group Chairman Muharrem İnce have passed away. In this regard, we owe thanks both to our group's deputy chairman and to all our valued deputies, who have expressed their condolences to both our group and Muharrem Encel. My respects.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0016par0078	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0017par0081	Thank you. I'm one of the people who met Mohsin Yazıoğlu, who witnessed the days of Turkey with him in the dark Turkey of the early 1980s. I know what a noble and humble son this nation has. As before 1980, in politics after 1980, he was an example of the same young man in his political life who continued his position, his line, and his character, his courage, and his character, as a proud son of this nation. I pray for God's mercy. My condolences for the death of Mr Muharrem Encel's father.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0018par0085	Let's do it, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0017par0086	In love, Veysel was the voice of this geography, of Anatolia, of this land; his poems and songs are in everyone's ears, and so are his tunes. My faithful beloved is the land of the black earth. He said, and went to the land, which is the same destiny for all; and his place shall be paradise. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0018par0088	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0019par0090	Thank you. Mr. President, we regret to inform you that former Republican People's Party Deputy Chairman, Yalova MP Mr. Muharrem Encel has lost his father. We wish him our condolences and a long life to his entire family. We ask God's mercy for his father who lost his life. Mr. President, AKP's long illegal curfews continue, unfortunately, very recklessly. On the 117th day in Sur district of Diyarbakır province, we face illegal, illegal curfews and practices that leave the 15th day behind in Şırnak and Turkey's southeastern Turkey's southeastern Turkey.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0020par0094	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0019par0095	In Sur and İdil district, the information that the operation had ended has been publicised for weeks, but the curfew is still under way, and according to information we have received from there, public homes and businesses are being destroyed and looted daily, especially in Sur district, a number of conscious processes are being carried out, particularly to black out the evidence left behind. Embarrassing images for mankind, which have come from Susova and Nusaybin. The condition of the people whose funerals have been torn apart, fed to street animals reveals a shame that will go down in history. Again, I say that we also consider it a crime against humanity, especially when a number of paramilitary gangs enter the public's homes, enter their bedrooms to take pictures and serve them through social media, creating the summit of moral corruption.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0020par0098	Let's wrap it up, please. Let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0019par0099	There are practices that go beyond the limits of tolerance for these curfews, beyond the limits of terrorism. And we're going to express all of that from the stand. However, I would like to express our feelings of solidarity and support that we, as the People's Democratic Party, are once again condemned by the people of Susova, Nusaybin, Sur, İdil and Şırnak. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0020par0101	Thank you. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0021par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, since last Thursday, we've been giving martyrs again. Low terror attacks continue without slowing down. We pray for God's mercy to our heroes who have come to the rank of martyrdom, and bow before their memory. And I wish that Allah would give strength and strength to our heroic security forces who fought against terror, and that we were with them. I also cherish the late Muhsin Yazıoğlu. My condolences to Mr. Muharrem Encel, former Vice President of the Republican People's Party. Again, I am thankful for the great value of our nation, Veysel the Lover, and I think it's a great benefit for us all to remind the community of values like Veysel the Lover. The last week of March is also the Library Week. These days, when a vice president of the university praises ignorance...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0022par0111	Let's finish, Mr. Akchay. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0021par0113	Thank you. ...I think the importance of library week has increased, and the library data has shown a constant decline in recent years. The number of libraries in Turkey and its contents also decline the number of visitors. We also understand this from statistics and from the decline of the number of users and members of libraries. Again, as a ruling party MP's education levels rise, our votes are dwindling. I also want to remind you that he expressed his promise on television in 2013. By the way, I'm saying we don't need no ignoramus in colleges. What we need is the reading and reading will of Mustafa Good-Eye. In 1943, the librarian Mustafa Nice Eyes was appointed as librarian of Ürgüp. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My last sentence, please...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0023par0119	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0021par0120	...has served 36 villages with a mobile library of seven mules and three horses. We need educators who do not praise ignorance, but who reflect the determination and will of reading in absence. On this occasion, I humbly and gratefully remember Mustafa Nice Eyes, the librarian who died on February 18, 2005. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0023par0122	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Members of parliament, we wish you once again the mercy of Mr. Muhsin Yazıoğlu, who has an important place in our political history. Once again, may my Lord have mercy on Veysel the lover who sees the world in his heart. We also offer our condolences for the death of the father of Yalova MP Muharrem İnce, a former Republican People's Party MP.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0024par0128	Our Samsun MP Erhan Bey's father was also deceased.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit03spe0023par0129	We ask God's mercy and our condolences to all his relatives. Again, to all the martyrs we've fought in the fight against terrorism, we wish once again our blessings, our nation's heads. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegation of the Norwegian Parliament's Foreign and Defence Committee to visit our country has been approved by 25/02/2016 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Court of Presidents and 6th Amendment. The visits of the delegations to our country are submitted to the information of the General Assembly, according to Article 33620 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the Black Sea region, even regular rains have become catastrophic, causing loss of life and property, while one of the damage caused by the rains during very short periods of time has occurred without being compensated. As the rains continue to turn into disasters, the region's people are constantly victims, living standards are getting worse. In order to investigate the causes of the floods in the Black Sea region, the causes of the disasters, the reason for the short intervals of the rains, the study of ecological balancing practices, the detection of the role of the Black Sea Coast road, the Green Road and HES in nature disasters, forest areas and water basins, and the extent of the abuses of the people in the region, the 10th article of the Constitution, and the 10th article of the 10th article, to determine the extent of the destruction of the rains and the proper measures. With all due respect. 27.11.2015 [[Tripoli]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Amasya]] 10) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Tunceli]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Adana]] 14) Gamze Akkuş Isgez [[İstanbul]] 15) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] [[Edirne]] [[Janitor]] 18) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Antalya]] 22) Zülfikar Inönu Division [[Adana]] 23) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] In the Black Sea region, even regular rains have become catastrophic, causing loss of life and property, while one of the damage caused by the rains during very short periods of time has occurred without being compensated. As the rains continue to turn into disasters, the region's people are constantly victims, living standards are getting worse. According to Article 63 of our Constitution, it is the decision to ensure that the state maintains its natural assets and values and to take supporting and encouraging measures for that purpose. However, every stream of our country is abandoned to concreteize under the name HES construction sector and the name of the Green Road, without comprehensive ecological assessments, without the plans for the basin being developed. Because of HES constructions, transportation roads, construction sites, storage sites are being destroyed; forest areas are being nationalized; creek beds are being filled; forests, natural habitats, valleys are being torn apart; wildlife, agricultural areas, endemic vegetation covers are at risk; habitats of many rare and threatened species are being destroyed; plants and animals are being damaged. Without the warnings of scientists and the opinion of NGOs on the subject, unplanned, non-projected construction has been allowed, under various names concreteising the region, killing nature. Under the green road, national parks and absolute protection areas are being decimated by Rant practices without consulting scientists. Because of the rioting on the slopes of the lands, the large stone walls that reached 5 to 10 metres to prevent the landslides were built, and a complete natural slaughter along the road route was carried out. While these practices destabilise ecological balances, they cause the region to be left alone with an irreversible number of destructions and catastrophes. In search of the causes of the floods in the Black Sea region, the causes of the disaster, the reason for the short periods of disaster, the research of practices that undermine the ecological balance; the discovery of the role of the Black Sea coast road, the green road and HES in natural disasters, the extent of the misintervention of the forest areas and water basins, the extent of the catastrophes, the destruction of the people of the region, and the nature of the rains are needed to determine the policies necessary to avoid disaster, and the proper measures. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the suspicious deaths of our soldiers who lost their lives in the service of the Turkish Armed Forces for reasons such as suicide, accidental bullets, accidents, training casualties, and to determine the necessary measures, responsibility and negligence, I demand the opening of the Parliament's investigation under Articles 98 of the Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. 1) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Tunceli]] 9) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Adana]] [[Janitor]] [[İzmir]] 14) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] [[Edirne]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Paddles]] [[Antalya]] 19) Zulfikar Inönu Division [[Adana]] [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] 25) Gamze Akkuş İsgez [[İstanbul]] The Turkish Armed Forces have a history of dignity and glory, which the Turkish nation has always had confidence in. As a matter of fact, for the Turkish nation, the origins of the military-national concept depend on this sense of ownership. Every soldier's duty is considered an honorary duty, and even today in Anatolia, men who have not served in military service are allowed to get married, start a business after the mission has been carried out. The public view of the TSK is adopted by the analogy of "Pigamber January" and by the description of "Messiah" to every member of the TSK staff. For every soldier who surrenders to his unit at TSK, his commanders point out to the families and soldiers that he is now their own son. Because the defense of the country is sacred, and the most important comradeship in this blessing is the friendship of arms. However, in a nation that is so valued for its army and its members, it has undermined the confidence of our soldiers for centuries to suffer suspicious deaths while carrying out their patriotic duties. Our soldiers who lost their lives for non-conflict reasons in carrying out their military duties are described as suspicious deaths by military families and by society. The reason for this is that suspicious deaths cannot be explained with concrete evidence in the eyes of families and society, that court decisions and expert reports are not convincing. Another reason for raising doubts about suspected military deaths is the failure of the Parliament's motion to investigate suspicious military deaths, given more than 15° in the 24th term of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Reports and legal struggles by formations such as the Association of Victims of Deaths and Military Rights, which have lost relatives, have failed at many points and have failed to resolve doubts. The presence of physical and psychological violence in the military continues despite all sanctions. In many suicide cases, TSK reports indicate that there are problems with civilians, although it is irresponsible not to give psychological support to soldiers. Civil society organisations and families only want transparency and demand that all question marks be satisfied. However, with detailed research, it is possible, unfortunately, that those who do not allow this study and those who do not allow fog clouds to disperse in some way commit the crime of alienating the people involved in Article 318 of the Turkish Penal Code. It is necessary to investigate the suspicious deaths of our soldiers who lost their lives in the course of military service for reasons such as suicide, accidental bullets, accidents, training casualties, to be investigated, to be enlightened by the public on this matter, to take necessary measures, to open the Parliament's investigation to determine responsible and neglects. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly An inflation account of the Turkish Statistical Agency (TİK) is used to determine the rate of increase for officers and pensioners. From time to time, the basket method used to do these accounts causes public debate. Perceptions are criticised by trade unions and NGOs that inflation has dropped every year at the close of the collective contract talks, which will determine the salaries of officers and pensioners. The consumer price index (TÜFE) declined by 0.51 per cent in June 2015, according to TÜİK. The consumer price index is calculated according to the average change in prices of a product and service basket, a product that is supposed to be purchased by an ordinary consumer. In particular, many products are known to rise in Ramadan. Despite this, the TİK's statement that inflation has fallen is controversial. As a blessing to officers and pensioners, it is also debatable to be given headlines such as "Memura News" in the media from time to time. Through increased inflation rates, the aim is to keep the recruitment powers of employees in decline. In this sense, the accurate calculation of inflation rate and the fact that it reflects reality is a very important factor that affects the taking power of millions of people. Inflation accounts set an average basket according to citizens' usage habits, adding products and services according to the use of an ordinary consumer. It is vital that the components of this basket are properly investigated and that the market prices are determined by realistic data. Clearly, as the subject of the TBM's legislative activities, it needs to play an effective role in the task of monitoring more effectively and in order to ensure the benefit of employees. In order for officers and pensioners not to be crushed by inflation, TBMM must oversee these studies. The TBM is also tasked with conducting and overseeing the necessary scientific work on this matter. For these reasons, we would like to ask for the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Civil Code, in order to ensure that the control of existing and past data and the ways of future work can be done in a more accurate and just manner. [[İstanbul]] [[Zonguldak]] 3) Gamze Akkuş Isgez [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] 6) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] 7) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] 10) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Edirne]] [[Janitor]] 15) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Paddles]] 19) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] 21) Zulfikar Inönu Division [[Adana]] [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Amasya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take their place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Now, there are two motions for a gene question. The motions have already been suppressed and distributed to the members. Now, I'm going to read the motions in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Because of the country's violations of rights and due to the illegal situation due to the violation of the Constitution, and especially because of its passive approaches to the violation of the Constitution, we propose the opening of the geneor in accordance with Article 106 of the Constitution's 98th and 99th, on the basis of Articles 106th of the Constitution, which is responsible for ignoring the principle of separation of forces. HDP Deputy Chair HDP Group Deputy Chair We have been witnessing for a long time that international contracts, especially the Constitution, and internal legislation are not implemented, and right violations are increasingly legitimised, and unlawfulness has been ruled. In all this atmosphere, of course, Mr. Bozdağ's high-level responsibility is at stake. The collapse of the justice mechanism, which the people of Turkey need the most and hope for help from, has resulted in the widespread spread of inequality and discrimination, with the sense of justice damaged in society, and the trust in the judiciary destroyed. Instead of representing social justice, the Minister of Justice plays an active role in the country's chaos, suppressing the judge by segregating speech of society and disregarding the principle of separation of forces. Mr. Secretary, I don't respect the President's decision regarding a Constitutional Court decision. "I have no qualms, it's a direct violation of the Constitution." In other words, he has violated the rule of law and the Constitution, which is the principal principle in law states. The rule of law is for everyone, Mr. Secretary, who has lost all importance, has come to the point of unilateral interpretation and implementation of the law. In the meeting of the Minister, the Plan and Budget Commission, only after the curfew of visitors in HDP MPs has been lifted..." The Minister of Justice has the right to be praised for the growing terrorist incidents in Turkey after July. ... I'm saying this is my answer, and I'm telling you frankly, the right of commendation is mine as Minister, and I'm saying I didn't. ...here are the HDP MPs." he did not hesitate to express his discrimination policies. The Minister's segregation policies are not limited to just these examples, no doubt. During the 17-25 December operations, under constant amendments to legislation, which resulted in non-obsession of investigation files on the ministers, he presented proposals by concealing the ministers' crimes in the penal code, which he discussed with positive regulations sixty, eight months ago, and has been directly linked to him in the HSYK three times in four years. While the Minister of Justice organises law texts to protect and protect his party, he is able to carry out draft laws to ensure that law enforcement officers are not held responsible for any actions done in the east and southeast. The purpose of this bill is that law enforcement officers be equipped with punishment, or rather an immunity suit, before they're even tried. As a result, the scales of justice have lost their balance as a result of the unfair punishments predicted against the opposition of some of the society. The punishment, which has gained legitimacy with existing practices, has been seen especially in the context of crimes against humanity. Cases brought against them by NGOs have been acquitted, and Musa Çetil, who has been asked 13 times for aggravated life imprisonment, has been promoted to Diyarbakır MP District Command following his acquittal. On the other hand, no investigation has been launched into the unjust trial of a citizen who has been violated by continuing curfews, who has been subjected to the violence of law enforcement officers, has been violated, has been exposed to the right to live, has been exposed to naked bodies, has been dragged to the ground. AYM applications for illegal curfews have been rejected, and the failure to implement measures imposed by the ECHR is a continuation of the same policy. At the coming point, the minister leads the judiciary by leading the double standard and punishment policies in the judiciary. It is used as a weapon to draw HDP out of the political zone by the Minister of Justice and by the concept they have put into practice. Hundreds of HDP buildings have been burned down and destroyed, even while our headquarters are being torched, no active trial has been carried out against anyone responsible, and those responsible have been rewarded with punishment. However, dozens of HDP executives are detained and arrested in each province, and MPs are targeted and tried to be disabled by the HDP judicial hand. Judicial bodies have turned not into the rule of law, but into mechanisms that only look out for AKP's interests. It is imperative that Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, the Minister of Justice, who is responsible for high-level violations of law and rights in the country in accordance with the issues we have explained and he be relieved of his duties under the Constitution and Civil Code. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that the Constitution be opened in accordance with Article 106 of the Constitution's 98th and 99th and Social Policy Minister Sema Ramazanoglu, who has created a serious public concern and insecurity that the foundations responsible for child abuse will remain unrequited, with statements that are neglected to prevent child abuse in the country. HDP Deputy Chair HDP Group Deputy Chair In Karaman, the Ensar Foundation and Karaman Anadolu Imam Hatip High School graduates and Mensuplers Association reported that children of nine to ten years of age who were staying in their homes were also exposed to sexual assault by a alleged teacher. This person has been sued for charges of "qualified sexual abuse of the child," "indulgence of guilt," "intentional injury" and "objective monitoring" have been demanded for up to six hundred years. The indictment, which states that eight children have been abused in the case, have remained in dorms associated with KAIMDER and two children in the Ensar Foundation, which is working for the benefit of the public. As the research has not yet deepened, unfortunately, it is feared that the number will increase. "Once found, there is no reason to defame an institution that has been placed in front of its services," Family and Social Policy Minister Sema Ramazanoglu said after this deeply injured public opinion. He used his statements. A minister who should have control over the availability of such institutions for children and who should be meticulously concerned about the possibility of child protection in these institutions has created serious doubt in the public that the issue and the institution will be handled, given priority for the child's benefit. It is also the obligation of governments to prevent child abuse and sexual abuse. For this obligation to be fulfilled, regular monitoring of child services must be collected and analyzed. The child must also be watched by the government. Work must be done to predict the risk and prevent it. It is the presence of a preventative system, not only an effective system that comes into play only after the abuse. In the event of the verb, it is necessary to facilitate victims' access to justice and provide services to help them improve their physical and psychosocial health. Heavy abuse cases against children in Turkey show that the Minister of Family and Social Policy, who is responsible for protecting children's physical and psychosocial assets, has been seriously neglected in the mission and that these preventive and punishive mechanisms have not been developed. The ministry is also unable to strengthen women's positions within the community, not only with their policies that protect the family, but with the fact that mediating mechanisms are against the Istanbul Convention for women who are subjected to violence, that women face abuses in shelters, that women can only contribute to unsecured and flexible tasks, as well as with the policies that protect the family, and that women's positions within the community are also unable to meet their obligations due to the inequality of power between men and women. It is difficult to say that the ministry budget is also divided into the goal of strengthening women. Almost all of the ministry's budget is covered by social benefits. During a period when women's murders took place in the fight against women, Minister of Family and Social Policy Sema Ramazanoglu used a statement on his television show on January 30th, stating that there was no violence towards women, that this was selective in perception. It is unacceptable for the minister to support an attitude that ignores violence against the woman, even this sexist, and to cover it up. At each time, the minister declares that he has been working on strengthening the family and that he has ignored her and that he has taken protective measures to the family institution, not to strengthen women and children. The ministry's policy, based solely on protecting the family and reducing the source of all problems to the disintegration of the family, increases violence against women by concealing the real cause of violence. The Minister, who has an approach to legalizing violence against women, who does not say "we are with women" and "we are with women" when women are attacked in public and private areas in the country, but who does not say "we are with women" and does not say "we are with women." In accordance with the issues we have explained, it is imperative that children and women, who have a high-level responsibility for child abuse and violence against women, should be relieved of their duties under the Constitution and Internal Charter provisions, be opened up about Minister of Family and Social Policy Sema Ramazanoglu, who has failed to meet the obligations of protecting their rights due to international agreements and laws. It's been presented to our knowledge. The meeting date of the motions will then be determined by the Council of Counsellors and will be submitted to your votes. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit04spe0023par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Tuesday (29/3/2016), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On January 15, 2016, Van MP Mr. Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan and his friends (number 621 rows) suggested that "the reasons and consequences for the transfer of prisoners to other prisons in the prisons are read and released in the same session as 29/3/2016 Tuesday, and that talks should be submitted to the Turkish Parliament in order to be taken into the information of the General Assembly." The first word in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is from Burcu Çelik Özkan. Here you are, Mr. Steel Özkan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit04spe0025par0018	Mr. President, the current government, the maintainer of the state tradition in Turkey, has been using politicians, intellectuals and writers, scientists, rights strugglers, in short, as a modern and effective method of punishing anyone who opposes power in the prisons. Turkey's prisons are the top institutions in which rights violations occur. When war and conflict rise, the biggest reflection of this is in prisons again. From 2016 onwards, applications to human rights advocates, associations, lawyers, increasingly serious violations in prisons prove to us that prisons have become places where the dignity of humanity has been tried to be destroyed and wanted to be brought in. Both inside and international arenas, despite torture and abuse practices in prisons, Turkey is on the agenda at the point of violation, despite its Constitution (the Constitution) and its international contracts. After the June 7th elections, the pressure and war concept against Peoples' Democratic Party was introduced by the state, but the ban on visiting lawmakers began. The elected co-chairs, politicians, journalists, academics, lawyers have been arrested as part of the war concept we're talking about, and continue to be arrested. This pressure continues as a threat to all opposition communities of the detention, the arrest fair. Although we, HDP MPs, have submitted dozens of petitions for solidarity with those arrested unjustly and unlawfully, we have not received any positive or negative response from the Ministry of Justice. In his phone call to the Attorney General himself, he has made a statement to me that this issue is based entirely on appreciation and therefore that he can use it as he pleases. From here, we can make it very clear that the Minister of Justice here continues to use this appreciation with complete pleasure and malice. Our MPs' visits to prisons are being blocked, but we are well aware of the violations in prisons. In fact, systematicly, every day there are appeals to our party, our prison commission and human rights organisations about the violations that have been increased since March. Exiles, which have not been explained by the authorities, have been remarkable in recent days. Diyarbakir D and E Type, Siirt E Type, Şırnak, Siverek and many other district prisons are facing hundreds of exiles to Tekirdağ, Osmaniye, Bandırma, Shakran, Antalya prisons. In particular, I would like to refer to the rights violations that occurred during and after the exiles of the district prisons in order to mark the date: assault, severe insults, torture, verbal and physical torture during the transport. The exile of sick prisoners in their pajamas without even being allowed to take their medication. The life-threatening condition is that the prisoners are not taken to the hospital. The result of the beating, the skin peeling, the broken ribs and bones. Confiscating personal items, including her clothes during exile, are the cases where her clothes are torn because she wears local clothes. Naked search, reporting, disciplinary action, a week's worth of bathroom privileges. Tables, chairs, even -- very funny, but don't confiscate the three-way outlets. Although there is no decision to collect or ban, some publications have been prevented from entering the prison. I won't let Kurdish newspapers, letters, books and articles go to prison. Children -- in particular, we met in Antalya Prison -- exile, severe human rights violations involving juvenile prisoners and prisoners. More capacity in the wards. Now, in addition to these, I personally informed the Human Rights Subcommittee and Human Rights Commissioner that the prisoners and prisoners who were sent to Osmaniye Prison in particular were subjected to battery and severe torture as soon as they entered Osmaniye Prison, and I called the Justice Department, but unfortunately, we did not encounter any reflex regarding this issue, and we were not informed of it in any way. In addition, the torture of prisoners and prisoners who were exiled from Diyarbakır, Şırnak to the Black Sea Region is a separate case, but one of the things we want to point out is that there are no license plates in the vehicles taken away. Recently, three days earlier, in the Diyarbakir Type D, there was a sudden obstruction of opinions with lawyers; again, they were blocked from meeting with relatives, prisoners and relatives, and suddenly in front of Diyarbakır Prison, special operations police officers, all police vehicles, all Cobras, etc. -- I will not count your name here -- these vehicles were prepared, ambulances were prepared. We don't know what it was prepared for, but as a result of the talks between our friends and our friends here and in Diyarbakir, we found this information: there is a search. I was told it was an extraordinary call. Again, the same, similar incident occurred yesterday in Diyarbakir Type E. Now, in addition to these, of course, there are physical and psychological tortures in prisons for women and children, especially sexual violence. These exiles, with no legal or legal basis, prevent prisoners and prisoners from communicating with their families. At this point, it means families have been punished in some way. In fact, Turkey is a party to many international contracts, and we say that here every time. For example, according to the United Nations Convention on Civil Rights and Political Rights, Turkey will not be able to carry out the unlawfulness I'm describing here in any way. In addition, according to the standards set by the European Committee for Torture and Disembodied Punishment or Obstruction, the measures necessary for prisoners to maintain ties with their families and relatives must be taken. Again, the United Nations, which prohibits torture, violates the 58th Article, which regulates the measures of Law 5275, which are held in our internal law. Dear friends, despite these international regulations that Turkey is obliged to comply with, I have just tried to summarize its situation in practice. Apart from the exiles, political prisoners and prisoners in prisons today have again put their bodies to hunger for a solution because of the denial and the war environment. Yeah, there's been a hunger strike going on for over 20 days. I'm sure it's not in any of your knowledge. For years, we carried coffins from prisons for these reasons. In order for history to repeat itself, the demands and solution points of prisoners must be read well. At this point, it is necessary for every responsible person and institution to take initiative and show sensitivity. Let's remember, not too much, but the situation of the sick prisoners and prisoners was at the beginning of the most talked about and sensitive problems in the process that was going on only a year ago. It was a press issue when the parties came to a consensus on this subject, but the state did not take any steps in this matter, as in many matters, unfortunately. I'd like to talk a little bit about the numbers that the Human Rights Association has shared with the public in the past few months. In total, there are 737 patients, 300 of whom are seriously ill, and some of them are now beyond treatment, so they almost expect to die. There's only one thing a person wants to die for: spend his last days with his family. But at this point, for pure conjunctural reasons and for political reasons, these sick prisoners are deprived of their families, their families, and their last days together. In this sense, these prisoners, especially 300 heavily ill prisoners, must be released immediately. In addition, friends, I'd like to address the problem of capacity in the prisons that AKP is worried about. You know, it's always about starting a new prison. Here are the statements to the press. ▪ We are building a new prison campus. We're doing it here, we're doing it here. Now, the question is, in a closed prison, the problem is two; it's a problem for us and for the state. It's a human rights issue for us, and for the state, it's just a matter of concrete capacity. At this point, we'd like to point out that we're dealing with hundreds of thousands of people being reintegrated into the prison system. It's also a sign that we're going to experience more human rights violations. At this point, we want Parliament to take initiative, as well as the sensitive parties, and we call Parliament back to duty. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit04spe0026par0032	Thank you. The first word against the proposal belongs to Kahramanmarash MP Veysi Source. Here you go, Mr. Source.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit04spe0027par0036	Mr. President, my esteemed congresswoman friends, I have made a promise against the HDP group proposal. In the beginning of my words, I salute your delegation. Before we get to the point, I pray for God's mercy to our citizens and all our martyrs who have died because of acts of terror. Very valuable MPs, there are still 187,498 prisoners and prisoners in our country. And let me put that in particular in the introduction, because why I'm saying this is going to get better at the end of it. Our country is among the most exemplary prisons in the world for its approach to prisoners and prisoners both in prison and in prison as well as in the quality of criminal execution institutions. Our country is under the control of both national and international institutions. As our Parliamentary Human Rights Review Commission in our country, the Human Rights Institution, is subject to review and inspection by prison monitoring commissions in the provinces, our prisons are also open to the control and examination of the European Commission because we are part of the Council of Europe's Convention, and as you know, no international organization has ever charged our country in this area. So in this case, let's not let God put anyone in prison, let no one commit a crime, but in this area, we have a clear conscience. Meanwhile, the various programs we did and performed during the execution are also intended for the betterment and rehabilitation of convicts in society. At the same time, a system of human dignity has been the choice of our governments. High-value lawmakers are also implementing a wide range of execution methods, which have been submitted to our Parliament on the execution of sentences, such as supervised freedom, conditional release, meeting the families of well-being prisoners, and becoming a profession, and so on. Other than that, the HDP group's proposal for transfers from prison... can be transferred to prisons for four reasons. The first is on his own terms, the second is due to disciplinary procedures, the third is because his institutional capacity has been exceeded, and the fourth is because of the prisoner's illness. That's why we -- that's why I said -- we have over 187,000 prisoners and prisoners, way above our pay grade. This, of course, is not our choice, of course, but this is the painting. On the one hand, there are people lying on top of each other in the prisons. We will say, "There are transfers to other prisons." There's no way that's two of them together. In other words, HDP's group proposal says that the number of prisoners transferred from the southeast -- or Southeast -- was 543 in 2015. Look, I'll give you the numbers: 11151 prisoners and prisoners were transferred in 2015 for mandatory reasons. So it's not 543, it's 11:151. Because of discipline, 559 prisoners and prisoners have been transferred. The number of prisoners and prisoners who have been transferred to a university or hospital where they can be treated if they cannot be treated in the province where they have been treated is 901, and the number of voluntary prisoner and prisoner transports is 15,431. As you can see, transplants are not only intended for our Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions; they are being made from other provinces, all of Turkey, to balance the condensation in prisons. Another concern is that no matter what reason these transfers are based on -- whether it's discipline or otherwise necessary -- his place of residence before being transferred is at the execution institution, and after being transferred, a medical examination and examination are being conducted at the execution institution. Our AK PARTY has zero tolerance for torture, and the EC PARTY carries an opinion and philosophy based on human honor. So even if he's in prison, the person there is human, and his honor is a saint to us. For this reason, I say again that a significant portion of the transports in prisons are based on mandatory transplants, that this mandatory transfer is due to the leveling of the prison in certain areas, which should be balanced and monitored for all of Turkey. Gene gave me various prison samples, Congressman. Our prisons must carry certain security levels according to the type of convicted crime, so transfers to appropriate prisons are mandatory within these levels. I can once again say that if the prisons now have health issues, if they have claims of torture or abuse, the controls in this matter are not made by prison personnel, but by doctors who are more independent, who have taken Hipocratic oaths, not by the staff of the health department, the staff of the state hospital. Therefore, I declare once again that prisoner transports in prisons are not specific, that they are not intended for the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions, that they were transferred in 2015 for necessary reasons instead of 543. For those reasons, I say we're against the motion, and I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit04spe0028par0049	Thank you, Mr. Source. The second statement in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is of İstanbul MP Gamze Akkuş Ilgezdi. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here's the Whitebird Illustration.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit04spe0029par0053	Mr. President, Dear Regents, I salute you all. I'd like to start talking with a letter from Tekirdağ Type F Prison because it's a letter about how two brothers were subjected to different practices in the same prison. For three and a half years, my brother Yasin Aktasla - two brothers - Tekirdağ No. We're about to execute our sentence in Lu F-type Closed Prison. My parents never came to visit because they were old and poor in finance. My family resides in Opium. It takes 30 hours to get out of opium, and my family has no income, and they only make a living on the old age salary that our government gives my father every three months. I haven't heard my mother's voice in four years and I can't see her face. Therefore, my brother and I wrote our transfer to Eskişehir H-type Closed Prison near Afyon, where he was accepted from the Ministry, and my brother Yasin Aktaş was transferred without money. Lu F-type Prison Administration sent him to Eskişehir H-type Closed Prison. While I was waiting to be shipped off with my brother, I was asked to pay $1,750 for the road fare. I couldn't afford it because my parents weren't in the mood, but I said I could only afford the fuel, but I couldn't get rid of it. My brother's been gone about five months. My deadline's almost up, and when my time is up, it's canceled, and there's no reason why I wasn't sent. I'm not being sent out for the money, for the pleasure of it. Besides, they broke us up with my brother, my family's a mess. I have $950 in my account; my parents sent me for food. That's the way it is. My psychology is broken, I can't take it anymore. For that reason, I was fasted to eternal death until I was sent away. Congressman, I know you're sensitive, and I want you to help me. Please announce our voice to the authorities. 462 kilometers between Tekirdağ and Eskişehir. They want the money from my account, and they want me to pay for the daily food and drink of the soldiers and commanders, and that's when they're going to send me. Is that a thing? Deputy, for God's sake, take care of this immediately. I know that death fasts cause permanent diseases and damage. I'm waiting for an answer. Yes, in our country, the prisons continue, unfortunately, to be a wound that bleeds every day. In the last 14 years, the penal system has dominated prisons in prison. In fact, that's exactly what we saw today. Today, the number of prisoners and prisoners is increasing rapidly because prisons are used as a means of intimidation and reporting. In 2016, the number was given to us as 181,590 -- as ministry data. So in 14 years, when we look at statistics, we see an increase of 206 percent. The 2016 study, held between January and February, shows that 110 new prisoners are imprisoned every day -- a month's work. Turkey is the 9th most imprisoned country in the world and the 2nd country in European countries. Last week, ten days ago, I visited academics with the Commission for Review of Prisons. Copperville women's prison, the painting I saw at the detention center was this: I observed that on my visit to academic Mr. Elvira Munchan, she was in a normal room of one person. However, during my visit three or four days ago, he said that they kept him in a room of 2x3, 20 square feet [6 m], not even room for passage, and were placed in such a tiny room. Then, through our continued initiatives, this problem was resolved and taken to the regular ward. However, the same practice was related to our other two academics, Kıvanç Ersoy and Muzaffer Kaya. And this painting here, they were put in single rooms. However, we know that those who are tried in the same case can continue their sentences in the same rooms during detention. In our country, we see the prison painting getting worse every day. We know that from the pen to the paint, from certain newspapers, we see that certain channels, even certain colors, are overextended. Is it over? No. The most important thing is that prisoners in prisons and execution institutions experience double convictions. The most important factor that gives birth to a double conviction is that no doubt people are sent to remote prisons, which we must first accept. Look, it's a very painful example, and in a letter sent from a remote prison, a mother in a letter from Samaria says that she could see her 8-year-old daughter three times until she was 19 and tells her daughter that she couldn't come to visit because she wasn't financially. There's no way in hell I'm not gonna see that mother's tears in this letter. We're all mothers, we all have our consciences, so I don't think we should be indifferent to that. The families of prisoners and prisoners who have been imprisoned in remote prisons have been unable to lift this financial burden because they are poor families. It also prohibits the view of prisoners and prisoners. Small-income families can't visit their children once a month. We want these kind of isolation methods to be quickly abandoned. Again, some prisoners are being tried in the form of conferences with SEGBIS because they can't be brought to court for distance. Such a trial is not a just trial, it also causes many setbacks, and it causes problems for those who are tried. For example, in the case of Ethem Sarısuluk, the lawyer of the family of Sarısuluk wanted to sign a signature using the same system; since the defendant could not see the signature, the court was suspended because it was not his signature, and the defendant was ordered to be brought in at the end of the trial. Again, for prisoners, ring vehicles are a serious problem in these long roads, coming and going. In fact, many inmates even express health problems in order not to get into these ringcars to solve health problems; they are subject to suffering pain, suffering pain, suffering problems. If you remember, I've invited Mr. Secretary from the bench in the budget talks, so let's form a commission for all parties. In the heat of July, in the cold of February, from Silivri to Anatolian Courthouse, in their conditions, let us go handcuffed; see if we are cold, cooked, able to breathe. And let's see if they go to our question proposals on good terms. Let's not get funny answers in this way. However, we still haven't received an answer. Another problem is juvenile prisoners. There are five prisons for juvenile prisoners, children who are left out of it, as we all know, are being sent to adult areas, prisons, where they are subjected to a lot of abuse, rape, harassment. However, if they were in places where they could meet their families, perhaps they would find a more comfortable way to overcome their problems in the process. So what I'm saying is that some things are deserved for someone, and some things in our country, they aren't rights for others. Thus, it is more and more important every day that the fair trial, the right operating of human rights, and all being offered equal. In our country, rights violations have become a right for a certain people, turned into punishment. Those who deny the life of Abdullah, and of Dilek Doğan, and of Uğur Kurt, and of Berkin Elvan, and of Ethhem Sarısülük, are walking freely today. Today, we see together how law is slaughtered. A prisoner's letter says that justice is the most flammable demand for anyone who defines himself as a human being. It is a matter of conscience to seek justice, to strive for it. You should be concerned about the way things are going. When today's political judgment is out of control tomorrow, the consequences will be disastrous for all of us. On that day, silence frees the prison gates. When it is written, it will be too late for everyone. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit04spe0030par0076	Thank you. Now, the second and final word against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal belongs to Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) MP Hakan Çavoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit04spe0031par0080	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge against the group's proposal, which the People's Democratic Party has made, claiming that the prisoner and the prisoners in prisons have been transferred to the hilafa of their consent without any justification. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Congressmans, our basic philosophy as an EC PARTY is human-oriented, human-centered. For us, human beings are euphemisms and come first. Therefore, in all our practices, we place a man in the center, regardless of race, language, religion, young, young, old, woman, man, free, prisoner, guilty, innocent, without looking for distinction, we accept that praising is essential. Again, to us, a man may be guilty, but before that he is human and deserves human treatment. The right of man to be human is sacred and deserves to be respected. Today, for whatever reason, anyone who is in prison without freedom or freedom is entitled to human treatment, on the one hand during his time in prison, and on the other hand, he is rehabilitated, not completely removed from social life, and is entitled to all kinds of services in order to ensure his personal development over time. They're a trust to this government. However, in this case, it is certain that being in prison with other prisoners or prisoners will have some responsibilities in order to ensure order and order in prisons. Here, it is vital to establish the authority of the state, to ensure the health and safety of other prisoners or prisoners, against those who do not recognise law or order to make the prisons a place where their rules will be applied, and to establish the authority of the state against those who make it uninhabitable to another prisoner or prisoner. In short, my fellow lawmakers will not prevent the same state from taking the necessary measures against the extensions of this mindset, just as the state does not prevent it from taking measures against those who terrorize the community outside and imprison a region of Turkey against those who live there. When it comes to moving and replacing the prisoners and prisoners in prisons: disciplinary procedures will primarily be carried out against those who are convicted and imprisoned, and will be transferred to other institutions at the request of the prison administration. Also, transports can be made for mandatory reasons such as overstepping the power of criminal execution institutions, security, natural disaster, fire, and major repair. In cases of inadequacy, which may be considered mandatory to the university or state hospital due to illness, the prisoners and prisoners can be transferred to other institutions due to illness. The prisoner may be admitted to the detention ward of the state or university hospital, which is considered mandatory. Members of parliament, as you can see, it has been determined by legislation on how the transports of prisoners or prisoners will take place, but other than that, it is not a matter of pleasure, as alleged. Congressmans, I'd like to share some numbers with you regarding the transfers in 2015 and 2016. Currently, there are around 187,000 prisoners and prisoners in prisons. 9,104 of these prisoners and prisoners are under arrest for the crimes of terrorism. This number is not related to a specific terrorist organization, but is made up of terrorists belonging to an entire terrorist scale. The transfers of 11.151 prisoners were carried out in 2015 for mandatory reasons. Due to discipline, 559 were carried out due to the disease, 901 and 15,431 prisoners and transports were carried out on request. As for 2016, 5,124 prisoners and prisoners were transferred for mandatory reasons; 212 due to disciplinary action; 263 for illness; 3,836 prisoners and prisoners were carried out voluntarily. Members of parliament are made to provide a balanced distribution of prisoners and prisoners in order to avoid massion in prison and security in general. Disciplinary transfers are conducted without notice to ensure safety and prevent escape. On the other hand, prisoners and prisoners are being processed and reported before each transfer. So, as alleged, there is no evidence that the prisoners and prisoners were abused during the transfer. Besides, shouldn't those who made this claim have presented such a document here? Why didn't they? Because there isn't, and they couldn't offer it for him.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit04spe0032par0089	How do we present a document?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit04spe0031par0090	It's not really about thinking about prisoners and prisoners or raising a concern for their health and well-being. In fact, the goal of this is to try to use the abuse field of prisoners, families, prisoners, prisoners, or abuse grounds for some other reason, perhaps, my dear friends, as they imagine in their heads. Now, we see that HDP has also attributed the increase in the number of transfers from 2014-2015 to pleasure in the group proposal. That's not true either. Why isn't it true? For one thing, dear friends, the increase between the two years is around 20,000. E, now, you're going to come up here on one side, and you're going to talk about the transfers and transfers we've made in order to ensure a balanced distribution, and you're going to talk about group proposals, saying that prisoners and prisoners in prisons are stuck in one place at a time with each other, without any living space. This is definitely a contradiction, a paradox. My dear friends, I think this group proposal was given from the truth, from the fact that the facts were reversed, and now everyone knows what the situation is in prisons. As my friend has just stated, our prisons are open to international institutions and organizations. The commissions of our parliament, again prison surveillance commissions -- the board of these -- are making their periodic visits here, if there are any setbacks in the Ministry's presence, and the ministry is performing all kinds of activities at the point of resolving the shortcomings related to them. With these feelings and thoughts, I express that we are against the group's proposal, that we are against it, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit04spe0033par0095	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit04spe0034par0096	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit04spe0033par0097	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit04spe0034par0098	Mr. President, as we speak, this motion has been used as a means of abuse, and this group has made a mockery of the fact that its proposal is purely pure. We want a say in this. The Burcu lady will speak, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit04spe0033par0100	I promise not to pick on you for two minutes. Mr. Çelik Özkan, please.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit04spe0035par0104	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, all the issues mentioned in our discussion and our proposal to the General Assembly, are proven and proven. We, members of the Biazihi prison commission, are talking about a process in which the human rights associations and the lawyers and their fellow prisoners and relatives who are interested in this matter have personally studied, continued, followed. I'd like to tell you about the meeting we had with Osmaniye Prison Director one by one, the conversation we might have had here, or about the talks we've had with the Diyarbakır Prison Director, about the evening with fellow lawyers. Look, these are the words of Osmaniye Prison Director: Yes, there have been reports of convicts and prisoners, hiding in our prison office. The Diyarbakır Prison Director says: There is an extraordinary situation; we cannot inform the relatives or lawyers of what is happening now. In addition, the imprisoned and imprisoned relatives who were sent to the Black Sea region, who had been sent to Tripoli, called us with tears. Because of the lives of these individuals, the life of prisoners and prisoners, parents called us weeping. There's more evidence than that, proof? Do you need a more open human, conscientious, or legal basis? Isn't that enough to investigate the human rights the prisoner and his relatives faced? What's wrong with prisons, what's going on? Why have these problems, these heavy violations, increased the dosage? What's the point? Isn't it really the Parliament's responsibility and duty to investigate them? We feel that this matter, which is so clear, public, evidenced, and proven, is based on the law, must be investigated as a commission in Parliament. Thanks again.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit04spe0036par0113	I submit the People's Democratic Party Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Tuesday (29/03/2016), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Sivas MP Ali Akyıldız and his friends proposed a parliamentary survey of Turkey's Grand National Assembly on 25/1/2016 to investigate the problems of Sivas Iron Steel Factory workers (227 rows). lu) It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the presentations on Tuesday (29/3/2016) and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. The first statement in favour of the Republican People's Party's group proposal is from Sivas MP Ali Akyıldıl. Here you are, Mr. White Star.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit04spe0037par0127	Mr. President, I salute you all with the warmest love, respect and conversation of our press and Parliament's highly valued employees, my valued citizens, and the Sivas Iron Steel employees who are now listening to us in the House, in the guest seats. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] I'm going to move on to my original speech after I briefly present to you the history of the Sivas Iron Steel Factory. In 1987, the Sivas Iron Steel Factory was founded on 40,000 acres of land in Sivas, and was set up as a very modern facility according to today's conditions. In 1987, the Sivas Iron Steel Factory was founded on the terms of that day, at a total cost of $360 million, in the economy of Sivas and in the economy of our country. The Sivas Iron Steel Factory was launched for 11 years, and then sold to SIVYAT ASH for 10 million dollars in a round figure to a group created by Sivasian businessmen under the name of the privatisation process, which was made in 1998. This Sivas joint group was unable to actually run the business and put it into the privatisation process, while the conditions were not met, and the letter of assurances that Kentbank had given in the name of the SIVIAT AS in the process was cashed in, and Kentbank then put it up for sale by demand of foreclosure. In the process, the government's operation of banks seized Kentbank, while Iron Steel relocated to the state. By the way, after Mr. Erol Rustemoğlu had approved the sale of Sivas Demir Çeliki to Mr. Erol Evcil. Mr. Minister of the period, Mr. Abdulatif Sener. But after the sale, the Sivas Iron Steel Factory could not be seriously run in a random way, constant problems, constant problems. In 2004, after the state issued a restraining order on the Sivas Iron Steel Factory, all of this group's assets in Turkey were court-ordered. After this date, the trustee was appointed, and as a trustee -- not to mention the administration -- has been acting as trustee from this date. Now, the process so far is a very brief summary. The court is still in session since 2006. Since 2006, it's been ten years, and the court is still incomplete. Now, that's his story so far, but at the point where we're here today, I'd like to highlight three key points. One of them, the Sivas Iron Steel employee, 650 of our brothers are on the street today, hungry and unemployed. The Iron Steel Factory is locked up, and our brothers and sisters are unable to bring home the bread. The sweat of the forehead is sacred to all of us. These brothers and sisters are left to hunger, unable to support the children of their families. This is the first dimension, of course. The second dimension, do you know how much Sivas Iron Steel currently owes the government? Mr. Sivas, this is the official statement of our governor, which is over 630 million TL. Sivas Iron Steel's tax debt to our state, the SEC bonus debt, etcetera, total debt exceeds 630 million euros, which means our state is the second victim. So, let our government sell a $210 million facility for $10 million, but let's get back to it, it's not gonna be able to take $210 million from this group. So here's $210 million from you, me, all of us, our children's livelihood.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit04spe0038par0136	310 or 210?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit04spe0037par0137	It was made for 360 million dollars in 1987, and now it's $210 million in debt to the state. Now, this is a second dimension. The third dimension, my friends, is that perhaps our friends, who will come out after me and speak for the ruling party, will continue the legal struggle. Since the legal process isn't over, we don't have much to do here. They can say things like that, but what we're talking about here isn't a legal issue. What are we saying here? We say: Look, both the state has been victimised and our brothers, who work there, who bring home, their children, and the economy of Sivas, and the economy of our country have been victimised. We'll set up a commission here and say, "Come on, let's all get together." It's not a political issue here, so the Republican People's Party doesn't have a political expectation or a problem here. Here, it's a matter of politics. Let's all form a commission here, together with a multiparty settlement, and let Sivas iron steel do this commission work and explain to our people and to us how and how and how it will be done for the salvation of Sivas Iron Steel. So my friends from the Justice and Development Party, since I arrived in Parliament on June 7th, I've been seeing this attitude, which really upsets us: "Ya, this party is the Republican People's Party, this party is the National Movement Party, this party is the People's Democratic Party, this party is the opposition party." Never mind the motion they brought, it came from the opposition. In logic, I saw that even very beautiful, social, and very important proposals for our country were rejected here without any rest, with a partisan attitude, and I'm really sorry; this shouldn't be the Parliament. We're here on behalf of the nation to represent them by taking authority from the nation. Please, let's consider the work done here. Let's not judge by the logic of the work that is being done here by a partisan attitude that has already come from the opposition. At least let's not look at this motion today. There's been a legal process going on for ten years, and the government's seized it; the reason for the precaution is laundering money. Now, this is not an obstacle to the work of the commission that we're going to create here. The other thing is that this Sivas Iron Steel Factory works well and methodically, and it's very, very important for Sivas. Today, Sivas, one of the cities where unemployment has been the most, where there are problems, we have a very serious problem in Sivas. One of the cities where immigration is a major problem is Sivas. Don't look at it as 650 people who will still be working here. This one, along with the employees of Sivas Iron Steel, will address at least 3,000, 5,000 people, plus it will contribute to the economy of Sivas. That's why I care so much about Sivas Iron Steel, so I insist that I underline Sivas Demir Steel, and therefore I speak again to my fellow ruling party MP: this is the Republican People's Party's motion, and we reject it. Look, if you vote "no" here -- I repeat -- in the future, not as the Republican People's Party, but as a state, as a nation, as a people, they will make you pay our people very heavily, at least my Sivasian countrymen will not forget it, and they will make you pay the bill. It's not a threat, I mean it. Sivas is really migrating, Sivas is in very bad shape, Sivas is doomed, for 14 years, the Sivas economy has flown, their villages are empty. Sivas is now -- I told you in my last speech, in my budget speech -- and with the villages completely empty, he's also suffering from very serious agricultural projects. At the very least, at the point where small animalism is being done in Sivas, we will speak underlined in our future talks. But I'll say it again -- it's about to end -- please, come, let's vote on this motion together today, let's form a commission together, let's investigate the problem of Sivas Iron Steel in Parliament and find out together. I thank you again, Mr. President, and I thank you, Mr. President, and in the group's speech, he said the solution: the Law for Amme is clear and clear. There's no need for anything here. The government can seize this place tomorrow if it wants, because it has studied the report -- if you show 10 of the best accountants in Turkey, one of them is our President-General -- and it is clear and clear that Amme Agreement Law No.6183 has been passed. Under this law, the government can seize this place tomorrow if it wants to and heal the victims. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And from here, I'd suggest to you that this offer will be made to the commission. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit04spe0039par0150	Thank you, Mr. White Star. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0040par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're continuing our talks on the Republican People's Party proposal. The first speaker against the proposal is Hilmi Bilgin, Sivas MP. Here you go, Mr. Scholar. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0041par0007	Mr. President, I have been promised by the Republican People's Party Group to open the group's proposal for the opening of parliamentary research on Articles 98 of the Constitution, in order to properly examine the problems of the Sivas Iron Steel Factory workers, in order to meet with the relevant individuals and institutions. I hereby salute you and our beloved nation. At the beginning of my words, in a remote part of Asia Minor, I remember Veysel the great populace of the people who died on March 21, 1973, who began to live in a remote part of Asia Minor and affected everyone with their heart, mind, and words. Years ago, he revealed the understanding and the prescription that all times needed by saying, "Ask for unity from God" / "It comes from the twin" / "It comes from the cause of humanity" / "It comes from the cause of humanity." Again, on 25 March 2009, the great statesman who walked to Hakkk, in the words of our Sivasians, remember the President of Muhsin on the anniversary of his death with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude. During the 28 February period, which was one of Turkey's dark processes, Mohsin made a clear stand against the ward, leaving all political economic and plans aside. In that difficult time, the President of Mühsin cried out to the world that he was on the side of the people and that he had the rights and the rights of the people. Once again, I remember him with mercy, and I believe his place will be paradise. Mr. President, first of all, I would like to say that we sincerely agree on the content of the motion regarding the group's proposal, that as a whole, we desire the solution to the problems of SIDEMIR, and that the production of the group can begin in a healthy manner as Sivas. I'd like to brief you on the history of Sivas Iron Steel Enterprises, which is the subject of the motion. It was founded in 1987 at the cost of about 360 million dollars. ANAP, the Democratic Left Party, was privatised during the 55th government established by the Democratic Party of Turkey by selling it to the Sivas Joint Initiative Group on 5 January 1998. Although another group has offered $3.3m in high bids, it has been considered social privatisation. CIRCIA has never produced in a factory. In addition, only 173 workers were employed in three years, despite the ruling that 500 employees would be employed without interruption. In short, the SIVYAT has failed to fulfil its obligations in the terms of the zoning agreement and has failed to run the factories. The Privatisation Administration has cashed Kentbank's letter of collateral over the failure to fulfill the obligations of the SİVYAT AC, which Kentbank has imposed on the factory, while the TMSF took over Kentbank's seizure of Kentbank and moved to TMSF. On 29 September 2004, the factory was approved to be transferred to its current owner, provided it does not move from Sivas, and the production continues to work. After the operation was conducted based on the scholarship, the TMSF seized SIDEMIR, along with 20 current companies under Erol's domestic administration, which failed to meet its legal obligations and did not pay its debts, and the company's administration was given to TMSF. In the ongoing legal process, İstanbul 12. The High Criminal Court has appointed TMSF (TMSF) as a trustee of control, deciding the removal of the administration's trusteeship. The same court has decided to continue the duties of the trustees of control until the verdict is final. Currently, the trustees of control are on duty. As of now, the case has been finalized in terms of criminal conviction, but it has been violated in terms of a restraining order, and the trial has been dismissed. It continues at the High Criminal Court. Mr. President, when we look at what's happening here, one of the important problems standing in front of Sivas is SIDEMIR. The problem we're talking about here today is that the current company administration is not very good at running things. Today, problems stemming from bad government affect all of Sivas, especially our fellow workers, who are concerned about earning their livelihood through the lawful way, with the sweat of their foreheads. The current administration has the concept of continuing production, not paying the SGO bonuses, taxes, union dues, electricity, natural gas consumption costs, especially for workers. In the past period, we've had many negotiations with the factory to continue production, to work, to keep the factory running, so that our workers and Sivas trades in private sectors would not be victims, and we've tried, and we've tried, and we've tried, and we've tried, and at this point, our effort and effort will continue and will continue at the point of the factory's work. Members of parliament, the distress involving SIDEMIR, and especially our fellow workers, is known to us personally, and the effort to resolve the problem is sincere and solution-oriented. Our solution-oriented talks on this matter are being monitored by the Prime Minister himself, both by the employer and by our government officials. However, as you know, SIDEMIR AS, Turkish Trade Law No. 6102, Trade Law 4857, Union Law No. 6356, Union Law 4721, Turkish Civil Law 4721, and Special Law on Turkish Debts No. 6098 are subject to the provisions. At this point, we are supporters and followers of any legal proposal for solutions at the point of solving the problem. As I mentioned upstairs, it's about the relevant company, scholarship 5. There is an ongoing trial at the High Criminal Court, and the legal process is under way. And the main reason why the problem can't be solved is that it's right here. The court's decision on the measure of the group's assets and the unsolved trial process at this point spurres the solution to the problem. Mr. President, we, the Sivasians, and the MPs who have been supported by Sivas, are here today representing our Sivasian countrymen, to this day the process of privatisation began wrong, and the privatisation process of Sivas Iron Steel began from the very first day as Sivasians. When we look at the privatisation process, the privatisation process was given to the Sivas Joint Initiative Group by politicians on the day, who knew the job, who knew the job, who knew the job, who knew the job, who knew the job, and who had other competent companies to do it, just so that Sivas could stay in Sivas, but the Sivas Joint Initiative Group failed to do it. We believe it's not the government or the private sector that's important, but the human-focused management of the business based on Rantabulary and profitability. At this point, as a result of recent privatisations in Sivas, the work in the Kangal Electric Productions Institute is continuing, the employment has increased, and everyone, including the region, is satisfied. Again, the Divrik Demir Steel Corporations have been properly privatised and today contributes economically to production both to the Turkish economy and to Divrik, which is the district of Ali Bey. FROM the moment it was first privatized, Sivas became a problem for both employees and the public, unfortunately during the process. The information given by Ali Bey is true. As of today, SIDEMIRE has an estimated $630m debt to the state. In connection with these debts, there has been expiration of property, e-access procedures have been applied on deposits, on vehicles, and on which there is no real estate of the non-immitted company, using legal rights stemming from Law 6183 (SGK, Finance). The reason why assets can't be cashed is because the court's decision to take measures, given the possibility of a trial, is the biggest obstacle to relevant public institutions at this point. Mr. President, the honorable MPs, we, as Sivassians, are the problem of our brothers and sisters who work as a whole in SIDEMIR, seeking their sustenance, seeking to earn their livelihood by the sweat of their foreheads. We show our sincere, solution-oriented, self-centered efforts to resolve the problem at the point of resolution, in the direction of the relevant ministries, and at the point of talks with the relevant court. Before becoming a member of the NGO, Mr. Ali personally examined the work that we had done together, which was self-responsive, common sense at this point, in all parts of the Sivas, from the trade room, from the trade room, from the bar, from the unions, from the unions. At that time, we had his support, too. In the meantime, at the point of Sivas, at SIDEMIR, we report that we are supporters of solution proposals that will bring certain, clear, concrete results, rather than promising to our brothers and sisters, who have been brought in with no opposition-enforce distinctions. At this point, we report that we are zealous at the point of solving the problem with a solution-oriented understanding, and I hereby salute you with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0042par0023	Thank you. You'll say yes, won't you?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0043par0024	Thank you, Mr. Scholar. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Müslüm Doğan, İzmir MP. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Dogan, your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0044par0028	Mr. President, I would like to welcome the esteemed lawmakers from Sivas. Mr. President, dear members, first of all, I honor Veysel the lover, who is a public barter to Hakkk and to the people in the eyes of the heart. I say let our walking poet live forever. Sivas MP Ali Akyıldız, our comrade, we find this parliamentary inquiry motion of our friend very important, and I salute him from here. It's very important. For years, you know, the divrician irons were taken all the way to Karabuk, Alexanderun. In 1987, a factory was forced to be built. A factory around $300-350 million could not be run, and was given approximately $9 million in privatisation. This wasn't given to an investor who gave $3 million more than $9 million, it was considered a social project, but the point was, unfortunately, total destruction. Now, valuable lawmakers, regardless of the legal process, a public institution may have been handed over by privatisation, it may have been handed over to a company, it may have been handed over to a corporate entity, but there's no reason why these workers should be granted public labour status by establishing a relationship. I'm not a lawyer, I'm an engineer, but the victims of these people can be repaired by public labor. And I'm going to put it here as the most important clause of this research proposal, where you can connect with 5018. Now, dear lawmakers, I would like to briefly explain the impact this factory has on Sivas. The divric is a very important historical city, perhaps a 3,000-year-old city. He's been the capital of the Mengücek state, a very important historical...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0045par0034	The Divrix on the back of Arguvan.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0044par0035	You'd better warn Veli Bey, or he'll stop me from speaking. Now, Divritic is such an important historical city, members of lawmakers, that, you know, the world heritage list of UNESCO's most important mosque is about the Dwarrizi Darusshifa. For the first time in the world, a mosque has been listed. Inns, baths, madrases, churches... the churches have already been destroyed, completely destroyed. I'm also inviting Mr. Erol to do a study on this matter. In Divritic, there was also a really important population movement, demographically, a demographic depopulation. Friends, the population, with 30,000 in 1966, is now measured by 12,000. Why? The iron steel factory closes in Sivas, the industry moves to other areas, in such a important city... one-third of the population of Istanbul is Sivasians, and Ankara has 150,000 Divritics, with the largest population in Istanbul, and there are 250,000 Divritics in Istanbul. Why did they migrate? These people have no right to work on their right to live. Agricultural land can only be used 422,820 per cent of the land, and the irrigable part of it is 12 per cent. Mr. Ali knows better because he's an agricultural engineer. Why is that? They don't build irrigation systems, agricultural enterprises don't matter, and they're a society that's being forced to migrate. In this sense, I would like to bring to the attention of the government that the importance of the Divrik must be given at once -- a very important social fabric. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's one other thing I'd like to bring to your attention. However, there's a possibility that these SIDEMIR -- the most important workers, their employees here -- look, by establishing a bond of identity, I present to the government here -- are going to be taken into public labor status, there's a possibility. I think the government should consider this very well, and I'm bringing it to the attention of the workers. Dear lawmakers, there has been a recent issue of the deployment of Syrian refugees in a busy area of Alevi villagers in the town of Marketcık, Maraş. Look, this is a very wrong decision, and it needs to be stopped. Why are you taking me to a place where the Flames are busy? It's a shame about these refugees. I feel sorry for them, and I'm a person who favors protecting their human rights, but the fabric of faith...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0046par0042	He's taking it because the place is available.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0044par0043	Yes, Congressman. As far as belief is concerned, look, inside this tissue, there's a possibility that the DA's gangs will be organized inside this structure. In particular, the people there are experiencing a great deal of anxiety, which has dominated the situation in this region, especially with the gangs of the Aleki massacres. Look, I'll tell you exactly what the villagers there said. Of course we're not against the oppressed, but the purpose is something else. Alevis briefly say: "This is our field, we graze our livestock. Is there nowhere else? We've already had a massacre experience in the past. They want to disrupt the demographic. There are jihadists in the area. Who are they gonna put in the camp? Should we answer these questions? I believe that, of course, they will be placed somewhere, of course, in a geography, but I don't approve of the selection of the Alevi geography; such sensitivity, such anxiety, such doubt, should be removed, and I think it should be stopped immediately. Dear lawmakers, another issue also concerns public workers who are exercising democratic rights in İzmir. Look, disciplinary investigation is being conducted at Tepecik Education and Research Hospital, which serves as an orthopedic and traumatist specialist at the İzmir Union of Northern Public Hospitals, for protesting the curfew in Sur district of Diyarbakır on 15/12/2015 hours. Again, because SES Business Representative Mahmut Bakay joined a press release again in this sense, our friends are being laid off. Now, if there is going to be an investigation under State Officers' Law No. 657, first, here are the investigation papers -- you know -- they'll be brought to discipline, disciplinary action. The disciplinary decision is subject to the court. Without any procedure, our friends are being laid off; it's not right. Look, a doctor can attend a press release, demand a democratic right. How do we rule this country, lawmakers, if we appear on every democratic basis and remove those who say something? You have to show your sensitivity. In terms of job safety, I mean, people are having a real nervous breakdown. They can't use their democratic rights. And in that sense, I want the government's sensitivity to this. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0047par0050	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. The Republican People's Party Group proposed that the first...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0048par0052	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0047par0053	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0048par0054	I'd like to make a brief statement regarding Kahramanmarash, as Deputy Heromarash, in reference to the speaker's speech.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0047par0055	Here you go. I promise you your position according to Article 60. Your time is one minute.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0049par0060	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Our heromarash is a city of peace, the cornerstone of our Turkey. There, the Alevis, the Sunnis, we've all lived in brotherhood, throughout history, we'll live in brotherhood, and we'll live on. And We have not given to any mischief that is to be tried between us, nor are We going to cause any mischief. It's not about the Syrian placement that the enemy brings to the agenda. Heromarash, as it is known, is an earthquake zone. A container city is intended to be set up as an earthquake prevention zone in our province of the earthquake region. As a result of the investigation...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0050par0064	Thank you, Mr. Sword. The second speaker against the Republican People's Party Group proposal is Mustafa Mit, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mit. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0051par0072	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's group proposal. I salute you all. Before we begin with my words, the man we lost on March 25th, my friend and fellow resident, Mohsin Yazıoğlu, remembers him with mercy and gratitude, and my condolences to all his loved ones again. Again, on March 21st, I cherish the one we lost, Veysel the lover. Dear MPs, today, I would like to speak of Sivas. On the basis of a motion issued by the Republican People's Party on behalf of the victims of our workers here at the Sivas Iron Steel Factory. Sivas is a province that has never been industrialized, where agriculture and animalism are being tried, and in Turkey, it is the largest migration. From the districts to the province's centre, and from the province's centre to the provinces of Istanbul, Ankara, Antalya, Adana, Mersin, Kolya, and the migration is still under way. The investments made during the Republic of Sivas have been closed or moved to other provinces. To illustrate a few of them: The Military Dictation in Sivas is a place where 500-550 workers work, while the Minister of National Defence is from Sivas, closed in Sivas, taken to Istanbul, where he was transferred to Kayseri. The State Supplies Office is closed again in Sivas. In Sivas, it was also converted into a factory where 5,500 people were employed, train engine motorized evenings were produced, car production and repair, where all the Sivasians knew as the auto shop, TIDEMSASAS Factory, which had been turned into a factory where only over 500 workers worked, where cars were repaired. The cervical workshop, which produces the motion of the locomotives in Sivas, has been moved to Eskişehir. In Sivas, we also moved to Arifija, where we produced cars from the ground up. So Sivas is a province where they're trying to evacuate. There is now only one section of this facility that repair cars. The Sivas Cement Factory is privatized, our Kangal Termic Plant is privatized. There is no new investment in Sivas. Without the university and military unity of Sivas, Sivas would become a dead city. The Sivas Iron Steel Factory -- which we're talking about here today -- was designed and founded in 1976 to become Turkey's third largest iron steel factory during the MC governments. Because the iron ore that was removed from the divric was being moved to Alexander's house and to Karabuk. To become a very large, third-largest iron steel factory in Sivas, the late Prime Minister Süleyman Demirel, the late Deputy Prime Minister Alparslan Turkesh, the late Necmettin Erbakan, and the late Turhan Feyzioğlu were also present at that ceremony -- which I was at, I was there, at that time -- at the foundation of the third largest iron mill. However, this foundation, which was cast out in 1992, with great hope in the future of Sivas, has been turned into a payload, ignoring Sivas, and the Sivasian, ore that had been removed from Divrik. Today, the place we refer to as the iron steel house in Sivas. While the factory was operational, it was covered by privatisation in 1998. It was reported to have cost $300 million, and sold to SIVIAT Anonymous for equal payment in seven years for $9,699. This Anonymous Company is an anonymous company founded by Sivas Chamber of Commerce and Sivas businessmen in Istanbul. For three years, 500 non-interrupted staff jobs have been signed, 20 million dollars in investments and a commitment not to fall below 50 per cent of its capacity. However, in the process of sales with 173 people, the company mortgaged the Kentbank factory and paid it to the Privatisation Administration in exchange for a letter of collateral. That's where the mistake began. So, this company has mortgaged the property of the Savings Savings Insurance Fund, pretending to pay the debt with the money he received from Kentbank, and the original error has continued to be folded to this day. The Privatisation Administration later cashed Kentbank's letter of collateral. Kentbank couldn't get a refund, so he must have impounded the factory this time. In 2004, a businessman named Selahattin Rustemoglu, one of the founders of this SİVYAT, sold the factory to the Bursa businessman Erol Evcil, because he owned 97 per cent of the factory. The Savings Register Insurance Fund repossessed the Sivas Iron Steel Factory in 2006, along with 20 companies under the management of Erol Petty. Behind this seizure, there is suspicion of money laundering, which means Erol's laundering of money has been repossessed by movement. The debate on the ownership of the factory continues. The case is now on trial. Since the situation is not clear, the operating company can't operate this modern store either. It is also difficult to resolve the matter before the ongoing court decision is announced in Bursa. But from here, we want to address government officials: we have workers and brothers working in this factory. It's all sweat and labor in this factory. These have something to take from this factory. They have houses, families, children. This government needs to come up with a solution for our fellow workers, and this solution can be produced. The Savings Savings Insurance Fund is here anyway, it's in this company, it's in debt; it's got nothing that's not legal. We also ask that our fellow workers be paid in a very short time. My dear friends, members of lawmakers, Sivas has never received any investment he expects from the republic's governments in history, as if it were a state forgotten by the republic's governments. The migration continues. In order to change the fate of Sivas (Sivas), it must be revalued in Sivas (Sivas), it must be supported, and Sivas can stand up with a number of supports only from the state. Sivas is a province of people who are bound by the republic, who love their state and their nation, who love their homeland. The foundation of the Republic is also laid in Sivas. Thus, we must prevent the victims of our brothers and sisters in Sivas by holding hands. We will vote and support this proposal. So, hopefully, this will open up a solution to our victimized brothers. We also tell the whole Parliament that we're with these brothers. As I finish my words here, I salute you all again with respect and respect. Have a good day.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0052par0087	Thank you, Mr. Mit. Your Honor, you seem to have entered the system, but... Do you have a request, Mr. Scholar?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0053par0089	I have a statement to make, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0052par0090	According to Article 60, I promise you your position for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0053par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. Even though they themselves are from Sivas, the two valued deputies who spoke before me, they see Sivas (Sivas) from afar, because they have not been to Sivas (Sivas) in recent years. First of all, the Divritic Grand Mosque, which is on the UNESCO World Heritage List in Divrik, has been auctioned off and is now under renovation tender. Again, in the period before us, the Divritic was viewed as a dead end, but with investments made by our Ministry of Transport, while only one way in and no way out, there were four or five exits to the city. Again, the previous speaker, the MHP spokesman, sees it very clearly when he says that there was no new investment in Sivas, that there was no new investment in the AK PARTI period, and that there was no new investment in the existence of those who existed in Sivas. The production of the Meat and Fish Foundation, which was closed in their day, has been completed by us, and, hopefully, on the next 4 September, it will be opened to our Sivas.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0054par0099	Thank you, Mr. Scholar.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0055par0100	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0054par0101	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0055par0102	Of course, there are people who are victims, and we're talking about how to solve these people's problems. What you're saying means nothing to solve these people's problems. The point is, how do we solve these problems? Think of him.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0054par0103	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Talks on the Republican People's Party Group proposal have been completed. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... Since there's a difference of opinion on the number of votes in the Presidential Court, I'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The proposal was not accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0056par0114	Guys, you see that, right? They didn't admit it. Look, they didn't agree to your rights.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0057par0117	Mr. President, is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0058par0118	Mr. President, please, he needs to be punished.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0059par0119	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0060par0120	Is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit05spe0059par0122	Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0059par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. Cakir...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0061par0003	Mr. President, if I may, the previous...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0059par0004	You're demanding a promise? Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0061par0008	Mr. President, thank you very much. Since November, we've been conducting audits and legislature activities in the House. Unfortunately, we're dealing with a painting or paintings that we don't want to do, in the amount, the amount, the amount, the amount, the amount that we don't want to do. We wish and hope that we don't meet these paintings. In the previous session, I would like to stress from here that our CHP MP friend's attitude is not elegant, it is not right, it is not right. We, as lawmakers, have a way of getting ahead of each other from time to time, where we can't control our tone of voice. In fact, it's also the deputy speakers of Congress, sometimes we face it mutually, with tolerance; we do it right because we don't get anywhere by climbing. However, it is extremely wrong to enter into an attitude toward fellow participants, our fellow citizens, our citizens, or the events that we cannot avoid may take place. I especially felt the need to underline it and remind the valued MPs. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0062par0012	Thank you, Mr. Cakir. Mr. Special, please, you have a request, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0063par0015	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. Cakir's assessments are the assessments that we should all be allied with, because he says it's not right for the MPs to say something about what happened at this point... that at the moment of the incident happened... our attitude is clear, and they've expressed it themselves -- but in this parliament, the fact that there is a new Parliament, that some events are happening for the first time, that traditions, rituals, and certain reactions in the House are mixed up at times, does not require a greater error. In particular, what we think is that every member of the group, and every member of parliament, in fact, is a sincere alliance, that everything should be discussed in this House, but it must never become verbal or even real violence. We all have responsibilities. Mr. Group, what happened after the Deputy President's departure came a period of extraordinary and one step beyond which, in the history of this House, there was an actual business that had been transformed into a black mark, or something like that. Everyone needs to be careful about this. Where there is no words to speak, where there is no words, where there is no understanding, it is not fitting in this House. We've said it over and over again as the Republican People's Party, especially for conversation, for conversation, for communication, of course, but no one should come between the lines of an opposition party, depending on the majority, and try to make a real right out of it. And that's where it gets us. We've all expressed our sorrows inside, and now we're all trying to put this together. So the way to express a mistake or a mistake, a flaw, is not an act of aggression. When that flaw is expressed, the Republican People's Party Group does not hesitate to do what is necessary for communication, the Civil Code, and the customs of this Assembly. We hope, sir, that when something happens next that bothers the ruling party, instead of marching into the ranks of the opposition parties and taking action, I think it would be best if they asked you for a moment with your tolerance to discuss it, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0064par0020	Thank you, Mr. Special. And we, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, wish that there would never be another debate that would cause such tensions. Congressmans, we'll continue the negotiations where we left off. Now, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/185) I propose that my main Law Proposal be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda according to Article 37 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. On the proposal, Mr. Sezgin Tanrıkulu, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0065par0035	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on the establishment of the Social Correspondency Commission (2/185) and the Joint Intelligence Committee (2/185). I salute you all with love. Dear friends, I take the floor, and when I do, I express my views, trying to convey from the past my experiences, my savings. And today, on behalf of our party, on behalf of our group, I'd like to discuss and discuss a law proposal that we've downloaded on behalf of our group. Yeah, I mean, we talked about this a lot last semester, and now we're talking about it, and we're going through a really tough time. So there's a lot of pain and suffering that can't be described. Only yesterday, two paintings I saw on the social media in Highova have deeply offended me as a human, my honor as a human. Heavy paintings like this happen. One was a picture taken in one bedroom, something written in the mirror with lipstick, and the other one, I mean, I can't tell you about it here. I'm glad it's after seven. So there really are environments where we can all be ashamed of our humanity, where we can't describe what we've come to, dear friends. I mean, the only thing that we have to respect for everything is the dead, the dead, the dead. Respectful... so the streets are filled with corpses left in the cat's, the dog's, the animal's... We're dealing with such a bad painting. Look, more than human death, it's these images that offend a people, offend a society, more than human deaths; they're after-mortem environments, they're drags, they're displaying naked women's bodies, they're serving photos from their bedrooms. These are the cases where the dignity of a people, the conscience of a people, is ridiculed and humiliated. So, the government is here with all of this, really, from today to tomorrow... you can rebuild as many cities as you want, but Mr. Secretary, these images leave more than 100, a thousand deaths. Please, I'm asking you. Whatever, but whatever, please get in front of him. We were going to talk about this, of course, the law, it's more important, it's very important. Here, it's Sur today. The decision was made to quickly adopt the Surah. Dear friends, a decision is being made to nationalize a whole city of 5,000 years. It's got private property, property of public institutions, historical sites, mosques, churches, no exceptions, and no one's consulted. There's a tradeshop, 10,000 people, 10,000 tradesmen. No one's been told anything. There's the local government, we don't like it; you don't like it; there's the matter, there's them. There are NGOs, there are people. Not a word has been said about what happens next. First decide, then talk. There's no understanding of that. First you're going to talk, then you're going to have dialogue, then you're going to nationalize, you're going to do it together, if it's a repair process. So I'm going to do Toledo, which is five thousand years old. You can't say that it's not understanding and our cities that have been home to hundreds of civilisations that haven't been destroyed in 5,000 years. I give you the article of Sheikhmus Thorn, which was published yesterday. Read it, really. What was the Wall? What was in the eyes of Çelebi? How did it come to this, and now what? Please read it. I mean, you sure as hell don't know everything. That's what the opposition is for, and so are we. We have to take a step together. Turkey is on the brink of disaster. We could lose everything, but let's not lose hope. But we're in the process of losing hope. So this Parliament really has to take steps together -- unlike its earlier appearance -- dear friends. We're responsible people, we'll go home tomorrow, we'll leave this Parliament, but we're all responsible for these deaths, these destructions, because we don't take positions, because we don't take positions together. We're going to fight terrorism, we're going to fight weapons, we're going to fight violence, but together, we're going to take a stand to make sure there's no killings. Look, the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff have a number of martyrs that the President can't agree on; the President says (355), and the Chief of Staff says. We don't even know that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Here's the numbers from yesterday. Dead civilians 310... thousands of deaths, dear friends. Please, I'm asking you, let's be responsible, let's step forward. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0066par0046	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. An MP has the right to speak on the proposal under Article 37 of the Civil Code. Mr. Mehmet Alli, Balıkesir MP, who requested a statement in this frame. Here you go, Mr. All. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0067par0051	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion in question. I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, centuries ago, a poet says, "What can I say, my dear sir? / It's our unorganized wire. / It wouldn't fit in the book if I did. / It's our arm all the way from the shoulder. Dear lawmakers, the situation of our country is sadly pathetic. We can never stand by and watch this go on. Every day, there's blood pouring out of the country, and every day there are five or 10 martyrs from all four corners of our country. In a few months, 11 martyrs have arrived in my constituency district. Because of this, we are in great pain and sorrow. We can't do anything but attend martyr funerals. The cries of families tear our hearts out, poverty and drama flow in every martyr's furnace. The father of the martyr I attended his last funeral sells bagels on the streets of Balıkesir. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, you know very well from the demands that come to all of us, the sergeants and petty officers who serve in the region are knocking on our door every day to get to the municipalities, calling our families, resigning those who are in good shape. Dear friends, we have sacrificed 40,000 people in the tragedy of the 1990s. When the AKP came to power, it promised to resolve the problem. In 2005, Prime Minister Erdogan said that ignoring mistakes made in the past would not suit the great states. The Kurdish problem is his problem. Back in 2009, Mr. Erdogan said he was working on Kurdish expansion. In 2010, he voiced the same claims, saying that I am defending the Kurdish problem and I will continue to defend it. He said that the opening process would continue. However, whatever happened, suddenly after June 7, 2015, Mr. Erdogan made a 180-degree turn and said, "There is no Kurdish problem in this country, I don't accept it." He said, "You have finished the peace process and put it in the refrigerator." Although we personally oppose the method of resolution, we are pleased with the peace climate and the stopping of blood in the country, which has made us all happy as citizens. As the Republican People's Party, we have repeatedly said that the address to discuss the problem and to seek a solution should be the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. However, these meetings continued behind closed doors, being abducted from the community. We don't know what was said behind those closed doors, what was understood, what was not understood. Now, the mission to Parliament, particularly the AKP Group, is to stop the bloodshed as soon as possible. Our primary objective in this situation is how to stop this blood. We can't talk about any solutions in a healthy way, we can't discuss any of this blood non-stop. The commission's primary task should be to stop the flowing blood and keep the peace. The families of the children who serve in the region are calling us, screaming, saying, "Let this blood stop." Yesterday, we are asked why those who call it "my solution" are calling it "the war," "the war," "the war." Dear lawmakers, many families want their children to resign and return home. These are young people, they have many years ahead of them, they have hopes, they have goals, they have dreams, they have futures. No parent wants to lose their child in this dirty war. Dear friends, look, our cities are in ruins. Homes where people can barely win with their teeth and put their heads down in conflict. If no measures are taken, soon our western regions will be overrun, like a flood of refugees from Syria. Yeah, so far, we've said it's our internal issue, but let's not forget that it's become an international issue. My dear friends, the AKP's government has repeatedly met with PKK executives. If there was no Kurdish problem, can you tell me what you talked about in Oslo, Imralı, Dolmabahçe, Kandil? Now, let's discuss and discuss this together on the legitimate floor of the House. This problem is a problem for all of us. We'll never be free of responsibility. My dear friends, peace is the foundation of this country. Turkey must quickly return to the principle of peace in the country, peace in the world. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Because the foundation of our brotherhood is peace. Because if it doesn't really become our problem, we could face terrible consequences. The power must recognize this situation at once. This problem is no longer a security issue. We're dirty, we're brothers, we're connected by blood, we've taken girls from opposite side villages, with obas, we've been neighbors for centuries, we don't know each other, we don't know each other. We 72 people look at an evil eye.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0068par0064	Thank you, Mr. All.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0067par0065	As I finish my words, I remember once again all our fallen martyrs and fellow citizens.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0068par0066	Thank you, Mr. All.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0067par0067	PKK, ISIS, El Nusra, Al-Qaeda, whatever its name is, I strongly, strongly condemn terrorist organizations. I want to make it clear once again that terror is a crime of humanity. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0068par0070	Thank you, Mr. All.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0069par0071	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0068par0072	Before you submit the motion to your votes, there is a demand for a sufficient number of decisions. So I'm going to call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Yes, since there's a difference of opinion among the clerk members, I'll vote with the electronic device for the sufficient number of decisions. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will begin negotiations with Turkey's Bill of Human Rights and Equality Act, which is ranked in the 1st place, as well as with the Women's Equality Commission and Human Rights Review Commission. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 149 rows. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, this bill will be considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Now, political party groups have demands on the bill, and I will meet those commitment demands, respectively. Firstly, I give you the demands: Ruhi Ersoy on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Osmaniye MP; Ayhan Bilgen on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; Senal Sarıhan on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; Veli Ağbaba on behalf of Ankara MP; Veli Ağbaba on behalf of their members; Ali İhsan Yavuz on behalf of Sakarya MP. The first speaker is on behalf of the National Movement Party Group...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0070par0090	Mr. President, Mr. President, I'm so sorry, I've been waiting for the information to be completed.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0068par0091	All right, Mr. Special, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0070par0094	Mr. President, we will now begin negotiations with Bill 149, and groups will take turns talking, meeting. However, we would like to point out that as the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0068par0095	Mr. Special, if you'd like, I'd like to turn on your mic, talk about your position. Here, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0070par0097	Mr. President, we are about to begin negotiations with Bill 149. For the past three weeks, we have seen and legalised the Law on Protection of Personal Data, which is almost within this scope, even slightly less. The two laws have a lot in common. In essence, the opposition parties, in full and complete terms, we say that some of us are the standards of the European Union, some of us are saying that in Turkey we wish that the best arrangements of the public should be made by the Parliament, but one of the laws that if we make the best of it, if we make the best of it, will be on the legislature. When the talks of the KVK (the Protection of Personal Data Law) began, there was a long debate, especially when the structure of the board was expressed in a series of more difficult and difficult ways, in which only the government and the President were appointed. At first, the ruling party strongly opposed it, took no exception, but in the process, the active opposition and public perception by opposition parties using their rights stemming from the Civil Code, the sensitivity and sensitivity to the issue that has arisen in public, the discussion of the matter in a different way, the meeting of the parliamentary peace for three weeks, ultimately allowing the structure of the board to change, some arrangements. However, as in this law, the two laws, which are one of the provisions the European Union requires from Turkey in its visa-free circulatory criteria, are where we are today, the approach that the government in the Law on Protection of Personal Data, which is in the first place, does not argue with civil society, but ignores the will of other parties in parliament. Now, inevitably here, we will, as in the Protection of Personal Data Law again, have long and long opposition to this issue. But here we think that another opportunity should be tried in democracies without other paths being exhausted. It's true, of course, that this should be done in the commission stage, or that the government would recommit the entire law under these circumstances and then re-establish it in accordance with the opinion of social opposition and us, but at this stage, we don't know how much it is possible. But if you think it's appropriate, at least before we start the law talks, if the political party groups appreciate it, there's a pause, and the last time we're looking at the structure of the board in the protection of personal data, which is a victimship, or rather a violation of rights, if we're going to fight it, the other side of that is the state, if we're going to fight it, is the one side of that is the state, the other side of that is the state, if we're going to fight it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm picking it up, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0071par0105	I'm going to turn on your microphone and finish your words, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0070par0106	If there is discrimination, a violation of rights, and fighting against those who are powerless in democracies, the arrangements for the defence of the individual's rights against the state are modern regulations, and this is what this assembly expects. Now, it is unacceptable that there are all those appointed by the government and the President on such a board, and that human rights struggle organizations, associations, institutions that have long proven their legitimacy in the activities of public institutional organisations, and that they are not part of this board, and that our representatives will also stress the violation of international agreements that we are on, and I would like to point out from here in advance. If appreciated, we'd like to take a break from the groups and discuss this matter once and for all before those two three weeks in the KVK are in vain. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0072par0109	Thank you, Mr. Special. Of course, it's possible for me to take a break if political party groups agree, but at least one speaker, after speaking to a political party group, I'll also take a lunch break, which, by the way, no doubt, is an assessment of political parties.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0073par0111	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0072par0112	Mr. Baluken, please. You have a request, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0073par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we believe that the high-profile MPs, the Republican People's Party's deputy leader, have expressed objections and proposed this bill. I won't say too much about what Mr. Group Vice President has expressed in order not to fall back, but I have to say that the 90th Article of the Constitution specifically states that international agreements and international contract criteria should be based on specific points in conflict with national law. There is no way to see similar examples in other countries, as there is a process to be established in a legal regulation on human rights, about human rights, which is more of a state-based process, or about being investigated by a board of government-set by the government. There are associations in Turkey that have worked for many years, specialising in human rights, civil society organisations, university and academy environments, intellectual writing circles that are independently involved in these matters, bars. Leaving all these civil representations aside, making a legal arrangement defined by the integration process of the EU criteria would mean a waste of time, above all else, on a board that has been created entirely, mostly on the initiative of the President and the government. This arrangement, based on EU criteria, will be part of a legal arrangement, which is not only based on a legal arrangement, but also in its credibility as well as contrary to the universal agreements mentioned in other countries, in the same way as in the Charter for the Protection of Personal Data. Therefore, a consultation mechanism, which the government has rejected in the commission stage or in the commission stage of the ruling party group, is strongly needed to resort to such a method. If this bill is revised by the opposition's proposals, if the necessary arrangements are made, it will also be a clear, significant savings for the duration of the Parliament's overtime, in terms of the duration of its passage from here. So, for all of these reasons, Mr. CHP, we think it would be appropriate for a recess, including the suggestions presented by the group's deputy leader, and we think it should be applied for a partnership by consultation with the opposition. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0074par0120	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I've just made a statement.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0075par0122	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0074par0123	Now, on behalf of the political party groups, on behalf of the National Party for Action...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0075par0124	Mr. President, it seems now that such an opportunity has not been taken. At that time, we, the Republican People's Party, if there is any opinion that the Constitution will move to the negotiations of this law, which we consider to be contrary to the Constitutional People's Party, and to be held here because it clearly violates international agreements that we are on the agenda of the Commission, and to be taken on the agenda of the General Assembly, then we offer your appreciation, sir, that the groups will express their views on this issue through a procedure debate.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0074par0125	Mr. Special, let me make a statement first, and then I'll express my opinion on your request. As you all know, according to Article 38 of the Civil Code, a bill or proposal is in violation of the Constitution in any way, in the commission stage, if it is evaluated by the commission, it will reject this bill or proposal, regardless of the commission clauses. If the Constitution or any clause of the bill or proposal is being introduced in the General Assembly, again, the proposal shall be evaluated, discussed and voted on according to Article 84 of the Civil Code. If accepted, this breach will be eliminated by the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has no jurisdiction over this. So, as the Presidential Court, let's take a break from this meeting, let's make a compromise. It doesn't have the capacity to appreciate it. This appreciation is entirely for the General Assembly. But I'm still going to assess your request in a positive way and open up a legal debate. Yeah, I'm starting a procedural debate.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0076par0128	Lehte.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0077par0129	Against you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0078par0130	Against you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0079par0131	One word for the groups, sir.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0080par0132	If I made a promise to each group, it seemed appropriate, so I considered the demands. First word...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0081par0134	Levent Gök, sir, in the name of our group.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0080par0135	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0082par0139	Mr. President, I'd like to take you two back about two and a half years before we begin the negotiations of an important law. I was speaking on this bench again on behalf of my party, and at the time, Turkey's Human Rights Institution Act 279 was being discussed here. While this law is being discussed, we have made it very clear and very clear to the European Convention on the Protection of Torture, which has been adopted by the United Nations by the ruling party and which Turkey is a part of, in all sincerity, how important the law of a human rights institution is in Turkey. After these discussions that I remember very well, when this law comes here, I'd like to share with you my dear friends the idea that the ruling party will listen to us as of today. That's when we told you, you came at us, we were right. Now you're bringing in a new law, two and a half years ago, you're dismantling the Human Rights Foundation that you accepted, despite all the objections of the Republican People's Party and other opposition parties, who fought here, and you're replacing it by changing its name. What's going on? You're confessing to the mistake you made here two and a half years ago, but your law is no different than it was two and a half years ago. Dear friends, let's not fool each other, let's be serious. Look, Mr. Prime Minister Davutoglu was then Minister of Foreign Affairs, he went to the United Nations Secretary General of the United Nations in December 27th of 2011 and presented the ratification protocol for Turkey, which we will establish in Turkey the prevention mechanisms for torture which should be established in addition to this torture. He submitted a letter of confidence. It's been five years, we still haven't established this institution. We will prevent cruel acts of torture. This institution, which we will establish, abolishes the previous institution, but the institution you claim to replace is worse than it was before; the Paris Principles are completely contrary to our agreements. The United Nations didn't grant us the Human Rights Foundation that we founded two and a half years ago, my dear friends, we have such a grave painting. So, knowingly, if you think we're going to fool the United Nations with a structure that left the structure of the board to power and the president, even more than two and a half years ago, you're wrong. It's completely against the international contract we're on. Let's think this through, again, together. Don't be glad this law came out of here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The United Nations won't recognize this board we're setting up. After a while, you'll have to replace him with another board. To remind you of us. I say we go about this the wrong way, and I say, as deputy chief of the group, let's reminisce about what's missing, and let's do it again, my dear friends. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0083par0146	Thank you, Mr. Sky. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0084par0148	Hakan Sargeglu...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0083par0149	Here you go, Mr. Sergeant. Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0085par0151	Thank you, Mr. President. I've been promised to support your attitude. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Congressmans, it is very clear that a bill or proposal should be proposed during commission talks on the charge of violation of the Constitution, and that it should be considered in accordance with all the details of this matter during the commission talks, and that it should be addressed in accordance with the procedure. Thus, it is possible that during the work made in the Commission, the bill was alleged to be contrary to the Constitution, was discussed, all negotiations were completed as a result, and the commission report was referred to the General Assembly in preparation. Of course, it is also possible to state that in Article 84 of the Civil Charter of the General Assembly we can also state that the motion to reject a bill or a proposal on the basis of the debate of a bill or proposal in the General Assembly is contrary to the Constitution is voted before other motions. However, one of these proposals may already be that opposition parties should submit a motion during the discussion of each clause, which may be considered to be contrary to the Constitution, and this will be discussed first. Thus, there is no longer a topic to be discussed in this framework at this time during general talks concerning the claim that the bill is contrary to the Constitution. Therefore, Mr. President's attitude at this point is in accordance with the Charter. However, it is possible for opposition parties, a number of main opposition parties and a number of lawmakers to go to the Constitutional Court through auditing, however, to move the issue to the Supreme Court, no matter what. On this occasion, we believe the President's attitude is in order, in accordance with the Charter. Again, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0086par0156	Thank you, Mr. Sergeant. Mr. İdris Baluken, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Bauken. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0087par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. I just explained why we're against your attitude. The basic logic of human rights regulations is to protect society and individual against powerful power or sovereign state understanding. But so far, unfortunately, our understanding of the judge, our tradition of the judge, has always been shaped by a point that aims to protect the holy state against society or individual. Now, we're dealing with a situation in which an institution that will do the human rights audit work will be formed again through the government or the government, which is capable of doing so. This is clearly against international contracts. What a fine work you have done on human rights when you make an arrangement for this, and no one will have to give you any approval or any appreciation. Look, we're giving up-to-date samples. No curfews. A 100-day government decree in one district, a state-run curfew is clearly a violation of human rights, the punishment of a whole city. For example, you would not be credible here if you tried to inspect the practice of a government or a government that violated human rights for 117 days by applying a curfew in Sur district. From here, from the stand, there are practices that offend the dignity of humanity that we can't express. On the condition of funerals that have been fed to street animals, what control will the President or the government make? Is it possible to accept that? We can give you countless examples. I mean, you're doing it all wrong by taking the law into your own hands. As of this hour, terror, I don't know, terror funding is being made legal arrangements in Plan and Budget again. So let me just give you two examples. Look, a few years ago, you had this country's Chief of Staff arrested as the top terrorist of the terrorist organization. In the same period, you were walking arm in arm with the Fethullah Gulen, whom you accused of being the director of the terrorist organization today. The period changed, the Prime Minister was once a terrorist, and now he's cleared by you; Fethullah Gulen was once your partner, now he's a terrorist. Yeah, can there be criteria like that? So, in the spirit of a government, if you try to establish a law based on its approach, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't do, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, I think it would be a great benefit for you to withdraw this bill against the Constitution, against international contracts, or take a break and consult with opposition parties to co-operate. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0088par0170	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Oktay Vural, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0089par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, this is an argument in the form of the bill's violation of the Constitution. In fact, it's kind of an anti-constitutional motion, which means you can't function. You'll appreciate that this makes it possible to feel all of them -- in my opinion -- because of the violation of the Constitution. As a matter of fact, the 87th article may be asked to extradite all or one item to the commission. I think it may be possible to discuss it by offering a completely relevant amendment proposal. The debates before this were especially incontrovertible. The debate that it is impossible to be brought up in violation of the provisions of the Constitution, but it is a debate that is being held on the axis of non-constitutionalism. Of course, participants in the Commission, in fact, NGOs involved in this, undoubtedly have very important work on human rights, and it is possible to ensure that these laws are made in a more participatory way. There's really no such thing as a resilience, especially when it comes to the formation of the board. Today, I shared my views on this matter with the Council of Counsellors at the chairman of the House. Prior to that, members of Parliament have been elected from parliament instead of the members appointed by the council on personal data, and since the number of members has been limited to five members, not all groups in the entire parliament have been able to represent this issue. Now we're talking about a new bill, and in this bill, there's going to be a board like the personal data protection board, but in one case, Congress chooses, one doesn't. I mean, where this Congress should be, how it should be, we need to establish our own law first. In that respect, Mr. Speaker, we're about to have a recess. If there is a consensus that political party groups can technically recommend, by receiving suggestions that this bill wants to be better, then our Ottoman MP, Mr. Ruhi Ersoy, as the National Movement Party, is ready for this. Since you're going to take a lunch break right now, Mr. Speaker, there's going to be a better basis for making a law on a matter that concerns all of us if there's a consultation and a compromise on the matter immediately. I think this opportunity should be taken. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit06spe0090par0180	Thank you, Mr. Vural. There is nothing I can add to the statement that I made based on the Articles of the Civil Code before I open a formal debate. I was going to invite a speaker to the stand on behalf of political party groups, but due to the passing of time due to the procedure debate, I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger. Closing Time: 20. 04
tbmm-2016-03-29sit07spe0090par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 149. The commission is in place. The government is in place. I will now promise the political party groups, respectively, over the entire bill. First, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Ruhi Ersoy is an Ottoman MP. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit07spe0091par0013	Mr. President, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a pledge on behalf of my party group regarding Turkey's Bill of Human Rights and Equality Act 149 rows. Honorable lawmakers accept the honor of a human being in the background of human rights when they think of it as an honorable and honorable entity. As a person is an honorable being, he crowns his position in life based on its basic needs, while designing it according to its basic material needs, with concepts such as dignity, honor, and honor. Man's ancient reality only becomes possible with the protection of law. It is not possible to maintain human dignity in a political social environment where the law is independent and neutral. The more judgmental the government is, the more arbitrary they are, the more they narrow down human rights. The higher the rule of law, the wider the field of human rights. Thoughts, opinions, ideological currents that want to make people equal in the past to the present. When equality policies see that this is not possible, this time the concept of equal opportunity in order to solve this problem is also one of the basic principles of the legal state to ensure the equality of opportunity. Therefore, the principle of the law of the people, regardless of religion, language, race, and class, has been established by the international mind that it should be protected as its precondition. However, the state's social quality must also be strong in order to establish the opportunity to use human rights in developing societies such as Turkey, as it is difficult to capture a full co-time opportunity and use it. Now, this particular problem has been focused on the relationship between the state and the citizen, the relationship between the state and the individual, whereas human rights are as much in relation to the individual as it is in relation to the individual, and in relation to the other social layers of the individual and other institutions and other institutions and civil institutions. And when we look at the basic grounds of this board, it is said that the relevant substances are not only the laws, violations of the state and citizens or human rights violations, but that there is a duty to oversee, in general, the solutions to the problems of different social communities in the community as well. Dear lawmakers, the concept of fundamental rights and freedoms that are considered the common mind of humanity in this area that should be focused on. The freedom to live, the freedom to express itself in particular, the freedom to be free and the freedom to possess. These are considered universal rights. When you accept these universal rights, it doesn't make sense that you're using these positive values sets because you're side by side with some practice that ignores freedom of life, some terrorist activity, you're holding your opinion, your opinion, your politics together, and then you're describing them as the need for freedom of opinion, the need for rights and freedoms, and then you're using them because you're standing next to one of the universal law against the right to live. On the other hand, when the rule of law is not accepted or accepted in that sense or accepted universal law, if you can't evaluate legitimacy when the people are using the sovereignty they gave you for a basis of law, if your legitimacy is not based on law, it is the law of the superior, it is the law of the superior. Which also means that you're out of universal law for freedom of opinion, freedom of life in basic rights. Both are problematic, both are problematic, and the basic motto that should be, basically, is that the basic needs of man, from the earth's adventure to this side, which we see as the development of mankind, as the hierarchy of basic needs, the nutrition, housing, protection needs that we're talking about, should not be considered with the basic rights we're talking about, the basic needs of nutrition, housing and protection, should not be used politically. Of course, the welfare community, the law state, democratic maturity, has been essential in every sense in a society today, but as we move on to the welfare community, the hierarchy of basic needs, feeding, shelter, protection, if you do manipulative work in this sense by making politics a means of voting, that would be illegal. On the other hand, in order for democracy to mature and the state of law to develop, you need to build the individual. First, man's honor, his personality must be shaped. When it comes to individuality here, you have to make the difference, the difference between individuality and individuality. The individual is another name or definition of freedom to express its own feelings and opinions in liberal thinking. Personality is, in fact, a concept that defines the values of the society that the individual takes into its scope, including the individual. What can come to mind when it comes to values in society? We're talking about human rights here, and if we take it from John Locke to this side as the basis of free thought and individuality in the issue of liberal economics, it doesn't match our social values. While such institutions are being formed -- the human rights institution, the equality institution -- we should not do them again in translation. The experience of the West is not the same as the experience of Turkey, of Turkish culture. If we try to integrate it into the Turkish community with the same translation logic as the Western set of values, we'll still be suspended, like a prosthetic structure, like a prosthetic tooth, like a prosthetic leg, like an arm. What I mean here is that we now call it human rights. Yeah, well, in our culture, isn't there a right to a slave, or a right to a neighbor, or salt, or a right to bread? Where can you assess these rights? You can't evaluate it in individual logic. You can only consider this logic in terms of personality. While such institutions can be assessed structurally, we need to consider a structure that is integrated into our community structure on our existing Turkish-Islam civilization references. Otherwise, we may be in a situation here that misses the strict rules and imposed modernity, which are the fundamental deadlocks of Turkish modernisation. On the other hand, as we look at these issues, our reference sources have studied these issues very radically and have an important acquish. One of these acquistors is our work, which is one of the references of Turkish state philosophy. Written by Joseph Has Hadjib in the 11th century, it is a reference source with the manifestos of civilization that can address today, and it is the head of the works in which every parliamentary speaker should be in the library of the politician. There says Joseph Has Hajib: "The law that refers to justice is the pillar of this sky; if the law is broken, the sky will not stand in the ground. Judge, if you want to rule in the land for a long time, you must uphold the law and protect the people. O ruler of the state, the worst of it is that men's names are called liars. Lying people are disloyal. And those who do not do good deeds for the good of the people - it is they who do evil deeds for the good of the people. Listen to how the scholar puts it: The wrongdoer will not rule his land for long. A cruel man can't have a gentleman for long. The people can't stand the cruelty of the tyrant for long. If the ruler is evil, he will destroy the world, and if he is not prevented, he will be lost. Persecution is the fire, it burns the one who comes near; the law is the water, and when it flows, the blessing grows. The last thing I say is that the law is water, and it breeds blessings. So at the beginning of my words, the people give the kingdom, the sovereignty belongs to the people, but the law is essential to legitimacy. Where there's no law, there's no legitimacy. From here, we must be able to discuss the fundamental principles in the understanding of Joseph Has Hadjib, in a constitutional sense, in terms of law, the Parliament, the institution for human rights equality, and use these resources as an ointment in the solution to our problems. Okay, so in this concept, is the human appeal of the Western acquish that we're so persistently concerned about, and is the Turkish national culture and human interest in identity the same, so that they have the same view of human rights? Of course, there are serious differences. The Western Middle Ages process, the Thirty Years' Wars, and the struggle of the church in itself with the understanding of the Scolastics, has shown its necessity to put aside its faith, its values, or its earlier roots, as it strives to rid it of religion, its own, as it pursues the idea that it creates it and makes its mind power over the world. This necessity has brought to the West the order of their greed and exploitation along with capitalism. Therefore, the continent of the Middle Ages of Europe was given in a comprehensive way in the book Human Crimes of the West, which was considered to be what the local massacres were when they invaded. Europeans who have made a fortune in the black ebony trade and slaves of the Catholic Church; colonies and exploitations of European countries in the Middle East, Africa; wars after all; the need for the Human Rights Act after the First World War, World War II, and finally, on December 10, 1948. These are institutions that have come out of experience after the question of the conscience of the West. But I looked at him from where the translation I told Turkey about came from: Turkey's acceptance of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights 1949. After that, Turkey approved the European Convention on Human Rights 1954. Turkey's grant of individual application to the European Court of Human Rights 1987. Turkey recognises the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights 1989. The Council's Human Rights Review Commission was established in 1990. The government ministry in charge of human rights in 1991. The establishment of the district and county human rights boards is 2000. Human Rights Oversight, Human Rights Advisory Board, 2001. The Board of Information Evaluation was founded in 2003. Male Male Opportunity Equivalence 2009. Public Control Agency 2012. The establishment of the Human Rights Association 2012. Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Association 2016. So in 2012, the board that we're discussing is actually seriously debated, and I'm looking at parliamentary reports, and it's not being implemented because the opposition seems to be having problems internationally, and now it's being updated, and it's being updated. This is one of the things that it takes to make arrangements on certain issues, considering the opposition's proposals, so that this will never come back on the agenda of Parliament. So what does the opposition say about this? First of all, the opposition wants to have the speakers present who will be in charge of the Human Rights and Equality Foundation, all of whom the opposition has political party groups, all of whom the Assembly can recommend at least. It's also true that all members of the board were appointed by the president, by the minister, in different countries in the West, without being asked by the prime minister, but the West may be doing so because it has solved its problem in its internal dynamics at a certain point. But these social problems that we have, these political pains, are one of the inescapable elements for society to normalize and relax, in order to create a compromise structure that can normalize tense situations. Therefore, when it comes to the matter related to perhaps negotiations with the opposition, I think we need to update the issue of identifying the number of members of the 10th article. On the other hand, in the Human Rights Review Commission, we also have a comprehensive reason for the joke about every article we put as a witness of opposition. I suggest that my fellow members of the ruling party, as well, read at least the chapters of the opposition in their hands, at least at the point of curiosity. We, in the end, find the creation of such an institution generally positive. We find it difficult at some point that Resen's research authority is in this institution, and we think it would be healthier for them to just study on the application. Corporate sanctions and practices should be included only in the process of applying to competent administrative and judicial authorities and monitoring these applications. The public should be kept out of judicial activities, so this institution should not be considered as an alternative judicial institution. In order to prevent existing and possible constitutional and international violations, it is wise to consider this process, as I just said, under the advice of the opposition. If we don't consider it, there's a good chance this process will come back with some applications from international law. At the beginning of problems in our society, in our agenda, the struggle with terror and terrorists is at stake. Terror and terrorists are now international, not national. International imperial forces no longer occupy their destinations, but have ruled for a while over the collaborators that he had left in time, and are now using terrorism and terrorism in the region as material. The thesis is relatively accurate. But this righteousness should not go to a simple defense in Turkey's fight against instability or social tension or terrorist, fighting terrorism, in the beginning of the world, and we should do our share. Look, I want to make a reminder about this. When the 9/11 incident took place, especially on September 17, 2001, Mr. President State Gardener, who addressed the world at that time, made these suggestions: the political struggle and means are completely different from the instruments of violence and violence. In this regard, terrorism is not a political activity, it is an illegal, it is immoral, it is immoral, and the terrorist is an inhuman criminal. Thus, the nature of terrorist organizations' sizes and actions and forms will not change the reality of terrorism. Seeing terrorism as an instrument of international politics means making terrorism international and spreading murders. Because terrorism is a worldwide threat to human life and an act of destruction, there is a need to establish a political, legal and practical basis for terrorism. In this framework, the concepts and methods related to terrorism must be made clear, and the network of very weak international cooperation must be strengthened. For this, an international counterterrorism conference should be held as soon as possible under the leadership of the United Nations organization, a basis for reconciliation on concepts and methods. The international community must enforce sanctions against countries supporting terrorism, make terrorist criminals criminals guilty of humanity, and increase them by being treated as crimes against all humanity, except for individual crimes. If these proposals had been able to be implemented in time, if the world had received this message, perhaps measures could have been taken before the problems reached this point. I'm afraid the search for solutions to problems is not enough after the process. In move from its potential predictions, I complete my commitments and bow again to the General Assembly, which the National Movement Party Group has made, in which case the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the political will take their proposals seriously, and if they take them seriously, there will be preemptive measures against possible negative developments. I wish the relevant organization -- if it becomes law -- well done for the great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit07spe0092par0031	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. On the bill, secondly, the People's Democratic Party Group will speak for Ayhan Bilgen, Kars MP. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen. [[Applause from HDP rows]] You've got 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit07spe0093par0036	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to start with Veysel, in love with the great poet: I can't help but notice that I don't care about people who don't care. Human rights should, in fact, be our common concern, but when we look at the debate about prisons before that, it's quite possible to see how big we are about the problems of a serious part of society. You know, there's a famous example, and there's a story, and someone from Anatolia went to Europe to look for work, and there was an ad in a pizza place, and they applied. But after we had a little chat, the owner looked, and this guy doesn't have much pizza experience. First he said, "Have you ever worked at a pizza place?" No, he said, "I haven't." Well, you know what pizza is, have you ever eaten it? No, I haven't. Well, did you ever see the pizza? No, I haven't, but someone from a village near my village has seen pizza before. Now, you get up here and there's all this talk about prisons, and you're like, you know, he's never seen a prison, he's never seen a prison, he's never read anything about prisons. There's a commission called the Correctional Commission, there's the Watch Commission for Prisons, there's legislation, but if there's a practical point, what kind of legislation we've made, I think whoever's talking here should at least know. For example, a member of the Watch Board of Prisons has recently spoken to the press -- a member of the monitoring board -- that he should know about the injustices, violations in prisons -- that our city is a tourist city, but in this prison there are Kurds, so there are bad images -- and that's the same expression -- it's bad, ugly. Why don't you take the Kurdish prisoners here to another city because it's damaged the city's tourist image? Now, what violation of which prison will you follow with such a member of the monitoring board, and will you develop a will, an attitude that will solve that problem? How do you become a member of the prison watch board? The mechanism is not transparent. What period do prison watch boards work? No mechanisms. Will the reports of the prison watch boards be released to the public? There's no guarantee of that. I mean, there's a prison watch board, but there's no real one. Therefore, speaking about prisons here, it means nothing when a valued MP talks about the CPT. I mean an international mechanism to prevent torture, talks about the Parliamentary Commission on Human Rights Review, talks about prison monitoring boards. In this Parliament, whether it's June 7th or June 7th -- whether it's November 1st -- the Human Rights Review Commission has not paid any prison visits so far. Now, think of a country where the number of prisoners is the highest in the world compared to the number of prisoners, so in a country, if the proportion of prisoners has come up with such a number, then the judicial system has already collapsed. The physical conditions of the prisons in Europe are being brought to us by the physical conditions of the prisons in Turkey, but when you look at the political prisoners in European prisons or the number of judicial prisoners and political prisoners in Europe, it will be made very clear that your testimony has no value at all. The arrangement for this Human Rights Institution -- perhaps some of our MPs aren't watching very carefully -- is in the form of redesigning, restructuring, giving new tasks to an existing institution as a result. So there's a Human Rights Foundation, and it's actually based on the presidency of the Prime Ministerate of Human Rights. So we've already changed part of the state's bureaucratic body into the Human Rights Foundation, and now we've added,, that we've added to it in order to give it a duty to fight discrimination in order to obtain visa exemption. What do you expect when you give it a new assignment? Normally, you expect a mechanism to increase the capacity of the institution to be more civil, more reliable, more independent, more neutral, but it doesn't. At least in the existing institution, where the university, at least the bar, has the opportunity to represent it. Now, with such construction, can such a burden really be solved, such a great responsibility, be fulfilled? I don't want to make Turkey's steps in the process of joining the European Union a very political issue. Whatever good work is done about human rights, you need to support it, but at least your work needs to have a quality that meets your expectations. So, even though both member states are very clear about what human rights institutions should be, and the European Union's own legislation, the laws of the United Nations, the laws of the Council of Europe, we say, "This is how we do it, and what we do is fundamental. Come on, we've moved on to one side, so let's just say that the European Union hasn't made a sound to this arrangement yet. Well, would society take credit for that? Does society trust these institutions to apply? Now, when the Prime Minister's Office of Human Rights, the district, human rights boards were established, the human rights organisations said: "If these boards are not independent, people will not apply to these boards if they are not civilians." As a matter of fact, you're looking at the nature of applications to human rights organizations, and you're looking at the nature of applications to government human rights institutions, and you're already seeing how open the scissors are. For example, when you look at the applications to these institutions, there are usually applications like this: Here, from the next floor, he flapped the carpet, and our laundry got dirty. Yes, that's a very important thing, no doubt, but in countries like Turkey with huge, painful human rights issues, people don't apply to these boards because they don't believe that these institutions can solve problems. As a matter of fact, the principle of the independence of these boards is that the importance, not the one who violates it, but the other who violates it, is that people who are respected, respected, neutral in society, and trusted in justice, are on these boards. I mean, when people come and say, "Yeah, I've been violated, I've been wronged, and in solving this problem, every single one of these people on this board is people who are trusted in this community, who never act politically, who never act favourably, who don't discriminate, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am. Human rights issues are nobody's internal affairs. I mean, when we look at the arguments we've had in the last few weeks, we can see that very well. I mean, in a country when a journalist is being tried, in a country where an academic is being tried, and today the Prime Minister's response is very, very appropriate, correct, but if you see a journalist in a position to be punished, you can't develop a common mentality about human rights, a joint perspective. Yes, in many countries around the world, power, especially in countries where the human rights mentality is not developed, that's how they describe opponents, you know what they say, "the separatist," you know, they say, "the collaborator" and they categorize like that, but that's why they have the standards of the human rights field. These are universal standards, and if you ignore these universal standards and you take a position of your own, if this position you're taking is conjunctural, which is who's in power, and what kind of character that victim is, if you take a position based on that, then you put all these universal standards of human rights aside. If you don't want other governments to interfere in the human rights field, the first way, if you're uncomfortable watching a trial, the way other countries are interested in your human rights issues is a hurtful effect, the first thing you have to do is challenge them, not to build a climate, an atmosphere where you don't have any scars to scratch. But if you don't do that, just by reacting outside, so today, because of your international relations, the human rights field, yes, can be a part of the government game, it can be tolerated -- sometimes such things happen -- there may be no violations -- because it has good relations with your government, but when it breaks down, the human rights issue will again be on the agenda. You have to take steps to solve this problem, to solve it once and for all. Just as corruption has been globalized in the world, human rights violations have been globalized, it is natural, even inevitable, that there is international solidarity in fighting it, that the international community is cooperating with it. Yes, so we insist that this institution must be structured in accordance with international standards. If that doesn't happen, if these institutions aren't designed in a reassuring way, if it's not planned, if it's not restructured, just, you know, it's spent our time, and we're probably motivated by the excitement of building a new institution, but in time, it's very clear that these institutions don't work at all. Yes, in the institutions of the state, in institutions such as human rights, what is autonomy, what is it, and it's actually very clearly described. ▪ Structural autonomy, called autonomy, called operational autonomy, has been established very clearly by each of them, their roads, their resources, their criteria, their conditions, but instead of creating these institutions with the right logic, we have to worry about how to prevent it, how to prevent it, how to prevent it, how to prevent it, how to prevent it, how to prevent it, when someone is applying to these boards tomorrow, when someone's application to these institutions, that's how we're going to undermine political power, how to make it difficult, how to prevent it, how to prevent it, how to prevent it, how to prevent it, how to do that. I'd like to remind you of just one measure of the principled nature of these boards. Powers can always look at different thinkers, critical ministers, opponents differently, but if your anger towards a community causes you to act unfairly, then the measure is completely gone. But unfortunately, both in Parliament and in the Commission -- and in the Commission of Human Rights -- because everything is in numerical shape, I think -- we need to talk about these boards, in fact, about this majority perception before we talk about standards in the world and so forth, about the perception that the majority are doing the right thing, that the majority are sure to know the truth. I know I don't have time to open up a very long, detailed philosophy of democracy, political philosophy, but there's a time in the Quran, which, you know, actually comes directly to the truth, often, with numbers, with power, with pride, with the process of monocle. So they cared so much about numbers and power that they -- here -- tried to count the graves. It starts. And perhaps one of the very short periods of reference to Islamic political philosophy on this majority is the Asr sur. There are generalizations in the age period. Everyone is frustrated. The majority is frustrated. It's called the exceptions, except those who do these things. So in human history, in the history of society, in the history of Turkey, it is not very possible to accept or accept a concept of democratic will based solely on the numerical majority in Middle Eastern history. So, for that, the law state puts other standards, it says, yes, the majority of parliament may be in the hands of a party, but although this majority should not go any further than that, this border is the minimum limit of humanity, it is essential; these are values, these are principles, these are human rights. Just as the minority's claim to majority is unacceptable, we need to see that a majority democracy actually poses a greater threat. Because if the minority is pressuring, the majority is organized in a country, and even if there are no democratic possibilities, they can fight their rights in other ways, but if the majority has created pressure against it, unfortunately, it's only values that protect minorities, the weak, the few, the opponents. There's no doubt about it, when regimes that don't refer to the world of faith, when they sign up for exponential practices, there's no doubt about it, but if you put pressure on people with a political reference to the world of faith, conservative values, as well as the holy ones yourself, it's much more dangerous if you refer to it because it's against it, it's against it, it's against it, it's more serious responses, it's bigger concerns, but if you want to pay attention to these measurements, you know, if you put pressure on it's very clear, as it's very beautiful, it's good, it's good for people, but it's good for education, it's good for people. If not, democracy can turn into autocracy, and in this case, you can't be certain that those who get good votes will run well. Yes, you can do that by putting pressure on society somehow, by meeting the hopes of society with your promises, but if you remove the mechanisms to oversee the emergent work, neutral civilian institutions -- in fact, if you disable the valves of every system, these mechanisms -- then there's no point in talking about human rights, there's no point in talking about civil mechanisms. The balance control system, on every occasion, is perfectly justified by your government, and we care very much about it because the balance control system really means that there is a balance within its power and that there are also mechanisms to control it, but it's not a question of traditional, traditional only powers separation in the world anymore. So we split up the law, execution and judgment, so there's a strong balance control system here. You can't say anything anymore. In quality democracy, there are other mechanisms for participation in qualified democracy. One of them is civilian control. It's one of the ways of civilian control, you see, today are institutions like the Human Rights Foundation, which we've just started talking about, mechanisms like the ombudsman mechanism. If you deem this a civilian mechanism, instead of making the state fit for human rights, instead of making it fit for human rights, if you state the area of human rights, if you place it in the line of state, the perspective of state, there will be no civility, no human rights. In societies like this, the only way to breathe, live, exist in countries like this is to take over the state. But in democracies, civil society, opposition movements don't see the state as a place to take over, because what you're calling the state is a mechanism in which it recognizes its rules to serve the community and declares them. But if the government doesn't abide by its own rules, when those who govern the state begin to operate a mechanism based solely on numerical superiority, only on power, then very different parts of society, different structures, but they focus their existence on strong organization in the state, taking over the state, which there is no end to. I once again think that this bill is important, especially in terms of the creation mechanism of its board, the renegotiation of the definition of discrimination, the description of equality, the reputation of the Assembly, as well as Turkey's expectations of everyone living in Turkey, especially those in violation of rights. We can't maintain the reputation of this House here by obstructing and diverting some debates, because the responsibility of the powers, the powers, is not only what they do, but also what they don't do. This Parliament is responsible for history and society for everything it does not have on the agenda, for everything it should have put off, for everything it delays. I hope you'll act with that sense of responsibility, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit07spe0094par0053	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0094par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the ninth session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 149. The commission is in place. The government is in place. On top of the whole bill, it's now the Republican People's Party Group. Şenal Sarıhan, Ankara MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0095par0010	My dear President, my dear fellow clerks, my fellow lawmakers, fellow workers, fellow workers; I salute everyone. There's a word I've made today, some friends say, "I salute you on behalf of my party." It's a good thing we're here on behalf of our party. And I salute you on behalf of my party. Now, we're pretty few, so we're gonna talk to ourselves a little bit, it looks like. In fact, when we were discussing the procedure, a very detailed but detailed speech on this bill was presented to you by our representatives of the group's presidents. I think some of my words will be repetitive, but in the event that this is a repetition, I'm still going to try to explain my views on some issues. The 64th Government Programme, which the AKP government has announced, states: "The most basic principle of the Republic of Turkey today is the protection of human dignity." And it continues, starting with the first lines of the programme ▪Democratisation and Constitutional Way, it is said that human dignity lies in the focus of the perspective of our democraticisation. No practice or policy that undermines human dignity can be seen or shown legitimately. No citizen of the Republic of Turkey, who is crowned with human dignity, can be questioned by his authority and power; his faith, color, gender, language, race, political opinion, philosophical understanding and lifestyle cannot be discriminated against in any way, and his speech of hatred is highly valuable. A statement that calls human dignity the basis of the human rights problem and defines any form of abuse and discrimination as an attitude that undermines honor and dignity, as well as the ability to allow anyone to do something that will destroy or harm human dignity no matter what position or position it is. However, we are looking at a reality in Turkey: Today's design has become the Bill of Human Rights and Equality Act on human rights. According to this, human rights are also due to the issue of human dignity, so let's see, it's just been said by my different friends that we are now dealing with an emotional and perceptual dissolution in our country, in Turkey, due to systemic polarization and segregation policies. Both our public space and our private space divide both in the neighborhood, in the street, in the school, in the workplace, everywhere, and the division has become concrete, visible. Under the circumstances, human rights are being violated by all people in the community. These violations are becoming more and more common, continuous, and systematic, individual or grouply. I have detailed numbers in my notes, but I'm going to try to move on the sum of these. Which was expressed again today, which was expressed by my friend who was standing before you again in the morning demanding human rights, which was said that although there are now different numbers, Turkey has received more than 350 martyr funerals, Turkey has also met 310 civilian funerals. So there's a serious right of life violation, but besides all of this, we're dealing with a serious right-of-life violation in the series of events that we're trying to make ordinary in modern life -- Istanbul, Ankara, Diyarbakir -- that we're all now calling an explosion. What people watch: People get beaten, shot, shot and killed in their homes, they can't express their thoughts freely, they can't write, they can't write, they can't draw, they're banned from publishing, they've made confidentiality decisions over broadcast bans, torture and abuse claims are growing strongly, and we're facing a punishment that we're trying to describe as a culture of punishment. Women are killed, for example, only 284 women were murdered on the street or at home in 2015. According to UNICEF's research, however, as was the latest incident with Karaman, child abuse is between 1 per cent and 10 per cent in the world, compared to 10 to 53 in Turkey. One of our four girls, one of our seven boys, is sexually abused before the age of 18. There can't be a fair and effective trial, when if there are so many killings, if there are so many killings and so many abuses, it should be questioned, judged fairly, unfortunately, the courts can't serve as independent courts, a concern for bias and bias and doubt arises. Private courts have been replaced, non-privileged civil courts, where special duties are being performed. According to the World Justice Project's 2015 survey, Turkey is ranked as the 80th in the rule of law index among 102 countries, which is a situation where we have to keep our heads down and have to fry our faces, and Turkey comes to us with 8.450 applications to the European Court of Human Rights, Ukraine and Russia, in the third place after Ukraine and Russia. In 2015, the European Court of Human Rights is behind Russia with 87 decisions, with the number of verdicts against it. Freedom of the press, as we all know these days, is identified by two names, identified by the name of Can and Erdem, a complete violation, a violation of freedom of information. And the prison, friends, has tripled the number of prisoners in prison over the last ten years. There are about 170,000 prisoners in 360 prisons, and unfortunately, the AKP explains to us the plan for opening 199 new prisons by the end of 2017 and adding 125 thousand new capacities, so the plans for days, not for freedom, are planned for prisons. Our position in the labour market is one in three women, but the men seem to be doing a little better than we are. And what we call an active investigation... We see that the right to a fair trial and effective investigation, guaranteed by the European Court of Human Rights, have not been done in the face of all these negatives. Now, our internal law also puts us in the face of new tasks of international contracts. If there are so many human rights violations, it's the state that prevents these violations... so we're trying to create a prevention mechanism in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, just like the mission we've been given here. We listened to NGOs at the Human Rights Commission, the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey, the Human Rights Association, the MaZLUMDER... where I would like to share with you the words of a friend of ours, Turkish Human Rights Foundation's Secretary-General Metin Bakkalcı. Dear friends, with all due respect, if we legislate this bill this way, we'll be adding a new product to this swamp. So we really need to create a bill of human rights here today that we will honor in the future. What do we need to create this? We're saying... it's just been talked about, you know, it's against the Constitution. My friends have expressed it. I tell you quickly: the second article of the Constitution, the Article 14th article, the Article of the Constitution, the Article 5th article, the 10th article, are clearly referring to the attributes of the republic, human rights, respect for human rights, the main purpose of the state, to remove the barriers to freedoms, and the 10th article dictates to us the rule of discrimination and equality, which has been changed in 2004, and the 90th article referred to international contracts. Now, my dear friends, we have signed the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights in 96, the Convention Against Every Racial Segregation in 72, the Convention Against Women (CEDAW) and the Convention on Avoiding Genocation Against Women in 79, and the contract on the disabled in 2006, and much earlier, as a result, the Paris Convention on Law on Laws on Laws on Laws Against Women. Now, the basic point of all these contracts is to preserve the human dignity that AKP has referred to in its own programme, but especially the law that we're talking about today -- many of my friends have referred to the Paris Convention. What does the Paris Convention say, if you don't mind, is that's what it's called to the friends here, and what it says is that I think it would be right to start doing something like referring to it a little bit, looking at it and reviewing the bill we have on it. See, it's also called the Paris Convention of '92 or the Paris Principles -- the introduction of the national mechanisms on December 20, 1993 -- he says: I emphasize this, what we want to do today is actually a national prevention mechanism. About what? One, about discrimination, two, about preventing torture and cruel treatment. Resolving the inequality of general human rights through these two fundamental issues. Now, my friends say that these organizations, national prevention mechanisms, are included in the Constitution, and are guaranteed by law. The Constitution defines them. How does the Constitution define them? With the 90th article and the stuff I just referred to. We continue: What does this human rights national mechanism do? He gives the Parliament, the government, opinions and suggestions. He means us. This committee will give us an opinion and a proposal. About what? The development of human rights, the protection. He won't be content with it, he'll give advice, he'll report, and he'll show us the way, and he'll say, "These things are wrong." The board will perform some very important tasks. He will examine the laws of the law, and he will determine and present them to us if there are human rights violations in these laws. These are the key principles of principles, of the Paris Principles. We continue: He will seize the human rights violations he sees fit, which means he will seize them on his own; he will seize them on his own without a complaint. He will report on the national status of human rights and on more specific issues. Now, the explosions that I've just described to you as 218 people lost their lives, any human rights violations in the southeast, any human rights violations that took place all over Turkey today, on this table, on these platforms in the morning, on this area, or in this area, will report on all of these national mechanisms. I mean, he's about to do a mission on us. This is a very important article, my friends, about the government's attitude and response if necessary. He's doing his duty to warn the government. I was just referring to the change in legislation. It also encourages signing contracts that we did not sign. Now, I'm going to switch to something else, and there's not enough time. There are three basic tasks for the principles of Paris: forms of creation, independence and pluralism. The definitions of what tasks to do, independence and pluralism. What's going to be independent? National prevention mechanism. So any political party's bias, advocacy -- which is to say directly to the government that represents the state -- is not going to blow any wind. But what are we doing with this bill today? We've almost appointed 11 people by the government. By the power of the Council of Ministers and the President... in which we stand... in the case of Mr. President who feels that the representation of a party is so strong... we don't already form an independent committee... and the mechanism we call the prevention mechanism... today, you know, we have another human rights law. Why are we changing this law? Because of the lack of torture and cruel treatment. The fact that this was included here through one tiny organization... now also in detention, in prison, in hospitals where, for example, people who are mentally ill are kept, in children's homes; and thus preventing them from examining all the places that have been held shut down, which have been held against their will. Obstruction of what? Torture and abuse. I'd like to remind you again of the recent incident where he's going to be working on a series of abuses or abuses or illegal procedures, actions, life-takings. So he'll be independent and plural when he does this mission. What's pluralism? The pluralism, civil society agencies in the field of human rights, will also be involved in this prevention mechanism. If they don't exist, by the words of Metin Grocery, we will have destroyed a new human rights institution in a swamp or created a dead mechanism. Unless we make the necessary arrangements. Now, my dear friends, there's one thing that I've been hanging out here, and I've been thinking about over all of our commission work, which is what the definition of discrimination means and how it should be done. A definition has been made that there is a pluralist distinction on the bill we have, there's a singular distinction, there's an indirect distinction. The distinction is the distinction. You can't make the distinction with different topics, different definitions, and you have to differentiate, you know, race, religion, language, gender, sexual orientation... And our women's organizations have opposition issues, and so do we. It's not possible to ignore a number of problems the whole world knows today, to block our ears, to skip them, and to judge them on the matter of morality. Therefore, this bill has not been properly expressed as discrimination... there is the Cedarw Convention, there is no reference to the Istanbul Convention; there are almost all contracts in it, but there is no contract that considers any abuse against the woman, the Istanbul Convention, any violation of human rights. There's a contract against torture, abuse and cruelty, but they don't have boards, and there's an activity that's just limited to a prison visit. In all of this painting today -- I hope that with private meetings, or with our collective decisions here -- we actually create the mechanism to prevent human rights violations from happening, and I want to hope that we can do that, dear friends, as well as preventing human rights violations from being properly obstructed in our street, in our country, in our country -- we're not investigating well, you know, we've already had a problem, and we've tried to talk about them, too. It's a serious job that we do, and I believe that if we can make it right, it'll make it possible for us all to live with human dignity. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0096par0033	Thank you, Mr. Sarihan. The talks on behalf of political party groups are over. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the two congressmen who have asked for a word on behalf of their own. The first speaker is Veli Ağbaba, Malatya MP. Here you go, Mr. Agha. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0097par0040	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, of course, we're discussing a law on the establishment of the Human Rights Foundation; unfortunately, Mr. Secretary, there is no minister involved. The Minister of Agriculture and Petting is here. I want to determine the sensitivity of the AKP on human rights.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0098par0042	You know, you know, you know where it is.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0097par0043	I mean, I don't know where he is, but, Mr. Secretary, if I'm not mistaken, he's the minister in charge of agriculture and livestock. I just want to make that determination.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0098par0044	Mr. Veli, your group is in consultation with your deputy president.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0097par0045	Dear friends, we are now discussing the establishment of Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Foundation. It will be 11 members of the board, which will be adopted according to the bill, and 8 of the 11 members will be elected by the Council of Ministers and 3 of the President. We're trying to form a board that we won't accept, and if it's accepted, we won't consider legitimate. It is unacceptable for the ruling to elect all members of this board. Dear friends, this version of the Human Rights Council is against human rights. Look, dear friends, this is an important law for children who have been raped, intellectuals and opponents who have been wronged, others of society who are outcasts in every environment, who are unsecured, who are not in the government's record, who are simply victimized in society. Man is human as long as he has rights. With these rights, it is possible to live up to human dignity. These rights are innate income and undisputable, unrestrictable. We know that there are those who serve to gain and protect human rights, as well as those who betray, ignore, and violate. To understand the importance of human rights, we need to think about people whose rights have been taken away. To understand what human rights are, precious MPs, we must empathize. These empathys are painful and burning, but we need to set an example so that we can understand the seriousness of this law. For example, let us consider ourselves the father of the 10-year-old who was raped for months in Karaman. Let's pretend we're the mother of a child who was raped in Posant Prison. Let's put ourselves in the shoes of a young woman who was subjected to a naked search and search for hollows when we entered the prison. Or we can replace Emel Korkmaz, the mother of Ali Ismail Korkmez, who had nothing to do with violence, who was slaughtered by gangs in the street. Or we could put ourselves in the place of the Berkin Elvins who were slaughtered on the way to buy bread for his mother. Or those who were drowned in Erzurum, those who were left in the cave in Elbia, those who were drowned in the flood in Samsun, those who were struck by elevators in Istanbul, and those who burned in the nylon tent. If we can establish that empathy, we can better understand the inflammatoryness of human rights. If we can put ourselves in the place of those who have been wronged, we may be able to understand the structure of this board once again. Dear friends, like all over the world, the number one perpetrator of human rights violations in our country is the state. This is not a unique situation in our country. The goal of establishing such human rights institutions in the world is to identify and prevent rights violations committed by officials in the state mechanism. Dear lawmakers, put your hands on your conscience, think about it. This board, with its structure, and as we often say, is contrary to the Paris Principles, which are often stressed -- as we often stress -- to the grounds of this law, which is not present here -- Mr. Secretary of State and the President of the Commission of Human Rights knows. In the Paris Principles, the esteemed lawmakers clearly define how to create this board. According to these principles, this board consists of the participation of occupational organisations, religious and philosophical trends, universities and qualified experts, Parliament and so on, from NGOs, trade unions and lawyers, physicians, journalists and scientists who bring together people for the fight against human rights and racial discrimination. Now, let the precious lawmakers, who will vote for this law, put their hands on the consciences, and think about it. Dear friends, will any institution be able to participate in this matter, or will an impartial scientist have a say in this board, from the NGO, NGO, NGO, NGO, to the Human Rights Association? In the past, 2002, you've tried this several times during your apprentice period, if you remember, you've formed a Human Rights Council, and Mr. Secretary was then. You took Ibrahim Kaboğlu and Racing Oran to this board, and then you chased him in slippers, and you beat him to death. Mr. Secretary, I don't know if you remember this. When that's the look, we know that neutral scientists, neutral people, have no chance of getting on this board. Or, valuable lawmakers, we all know the appointment the AKP made in the past, we see the appointments you made, we know the appointments made to institutions. Look, remember who the president of a board like this is. We know that Mr. Mehmet Elkatmis, a former deputy minister in the AKP, was the chairman of a council. Or when we look at the board that was formed last semester, when we look at the board structure, we know that politically co-friendly relatives are filled with these institutions. Dear friends, controlling torture can't be done in prison, in street, anywhere, to oversee torture, a violation of rights, with people appointed by the state or appointed by the government. Look, you're the government today, you'll change tomorrow. I've been telling you from this bench lately, a congressman who's been talking to me a lot in the back row came in today, and he's become a terrorist in your eyes. Dear friends, when we look at past rights violations, we need to know that it is unacceptable by the AKP to form a council by the AKP state, and that the legitimacy of this board will be discussed. Look, remember, there was a massacre in the heart of Ankara on October 10th. There may have been a second, perhaps even more terrifying event that didn't get talked about, that didn't come up much. While those people were dying, those people were waiting for an ambulance, the police who didn't protect those people, unfortunately, sprayed gas bombs on the people who were lying there, dying. Dear friends, can this board investigate this case? Put your hand on a conscience, Mr. Secretary, Mr. President, put your hand on a conscience, think about it. Again, put yourselves in your place, consider how a man with a machete attacked a young girl, your sister, in the acts of travel, and please calculate how this committee will proceed. Dear friends, I'd like to give you a few examples. I left the pictures there. Do you remember in Soma, a counselor of the President, a chief advisor, a miner boy, kicked a miner boy who had to live on minimum wage? Do you know what happened to that boy who got kicked? Free Special is watching closely. That boy was in need of bread and was punished. Do you know what happened to that person who kicked, Mr. Osman Bey, what happened to that person? The kicking man continues to rise. It's neither moral nor conscientious, dear friends. It's possible to replicate the samples. Now, again, let an AKP MP put himself in the place of the mother of Ethem Sarısuluk. In the middle of the street, a human being is targeted, murdered, and greeted like a hero. What does the Prime Minister say, Prime Minister? What did you say to the congregation, which was now parallel to the congregation, where you were in arms and arms at that time? You're writing "Destan." You're saying "Destan." If those epic cops can be audited by this committee, put your hands on your conscience, tell me, friends. Again, look, you've recently dismissed every school principal in Turkey with a parallel excuse. I'm allegedly saying there's not a single Republican, patriotic school principal left who believes in secular, democratic republics. You said we were going to remove the parallel structure. But you didn't leave one Alevi school principal, you didn't leave one left-wing school principal, you didn't leave one MHP school principal, so in short, you didn't leave one non-AKP school principal. Again, when we look at the practices, it does not take a priest to understand how this council will be formed. There's not one governor who thinks differently than you do, no police commissioner, no governor, not even one citizen who does cleaning work in your municipalities. Therefore, it is against human rights that this committee is created by this structure. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I commend you and salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0099par0069	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Ali Ihsan Yavuz, second speaker on behalf of him, is a Sakarya MP. Here you go, Mr. Yavuz. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0100par0074	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the general bill of the Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey. I hereby salute the High Council and our beloved nation. As you know, Turkey's Human Rights Foundation was launched and was therefore launched into force as a result of the institutionalisation of human rights studies in Turkey, as a result of 21/6/2012 dates and 6332 Turkey's Human Rights Institution. The 64th government's programme, founded by the EC PARTY, will bring the majority, equalityist and participatory democracy of Turkey to even higher ranks in the world's democracy league. In the field of basic rights and freedoms, international norms will be the basis of all our policies. We will activate the Turkish Parliament's Human Rights Review Commission, the Public Control Agency and Turkey's Human Rights Institution and strengthen their responsibilities on an international level. In this area, we will increase the level of legislation and implementation with international fundamental rights mechanisms. In the new era, we have declared that international contracts on fundamental rights and freedoms will continue to be incorporated into the internal law, that there will be no harm done by the liberal democratic understanding. The Turkish Law on Human Rights and Equality Act laid out in this framework includes strengthening and strengthening the institutional capacity of the existing Turkish Human Rights Institution in accordance with its main goal for human rights protection mechanisms, and thus enhancing and improving human rights, establishing the basic legal framework and institutional structure of discrimination and therefore providing equal treatment by combating all kinds of discrimination, including increasing the activity and function of the existing Human Rights Institution of Turkey, including the three main responsibilities that we are talking about, and the establishment of human rights. Mr. President, the bill has been prepared by consideration of international examples, including the United Nations Paris Principles for human rights institutions, the relevant European Union acquistive and European Union member country applications. The three main columns of the bill are the provisions for the ban on discrimination, the regulations for the Human Rights and Equality Agency of Turkey, and the application and examination procedures. The basics of discrimination, species, scope and exceptions are organised in line with the acquish of the European Union and the European Council documents. The fundamentals of discrimination when the issue of discrimination is determined as the use of legally recognised rights and freedoms, are decided to discriminate between gender, race, color, language, religion, religion, philosophy and political opinion, ethnic origins, wealth, birth, civil state, health, disability, age, so that it is based on the basis for taking advantage of rights and freedoms, and in violation of law. We found that the most criticisms of opposition party lawmakers during the discussion of the bill as a commission for both the Women's Opportunity Equality Commission and the Human Rights Review Commission, as well as the original commission, are related to the formation of the board on Article 10 of the bill. Opposition parties have voiced intense criticism, especially from the President of the three board members, and from the eight of them from the Council of Ministers, which, as you can see, continues in the General Assembly. They claimed that it would not fall under European Union standards if three of the members of the council were appointed by the President and eight others by the Council of Ministers. However, when we look at the implementations of European Union countries, we see that these criticisms are extremely uncalled for and extremely unnecessary. For example, the institution we will form as the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey was established in Germany as the Office of the Anti-Discrimination Office. See, at the advice of the German Federal Government of the Anti-Discrimination Office, the Federal Minister in charge of family, old people, women and young people is appointed. In Sweden, this institution is called the Ombudsman of Equality. The ombudsman in charge of the institution is appointed by the government, and the institution's employees are determined by the ombudsman. Let's look at the Dutch example; in the Netherlands, this institution is called the Human Rights Institution, similar to ours. The institution consists of at least 9, at least 12 members, including 1 president and 2 vice presidents. The members of the agency are appointed by the royal decree on the Minister of Justice's proposal. See, even though all members in the Netherlands are recommended only by the Minister of Justice, this is not a criticism in the Netherlands, but for some reason, it is a strong criticism that the Council of Ministers and the President will determine the members of the council. Finally, let us look at France, where the name of the institution has been identified as the right defender. The rights defender, the head of the institution, is appointed by the French President for six years. These are all examples of how opposition lawmakers are appointed by the President and the Council of Ministers. This way of determining is contrary to the standards of the European Union. It clearly shows that its criticisms are unfair, unjust, and unnecessary. In many countries of Europe, only the minister, the cabinet, the king alone, or the president alone, have the authority given to us by the Council of Ministers and the President, and for some reason the apocalypse breaks. There is no real understanding of this form of opposition. In most countries of the European Union, only one minister can brutally criticize the authority that only the government or the president has used when the issue is so clear and the issue is so contrary to our standards of the West. What could be more natural, for God's sake, if a government elected by our nation's halal votes, and a president elected by 52 per cent of our nation's favor, elected members of the Human Rights and Equality Council of Turkey? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I hope that the Law on Human Rights and Equality of Turkey, which will be adopted and passed by the votes of your valued MPs, will create a new and powerful structure in Turkey. I wish this law to be good for our country, and once again I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0101par0089	Thank you, Mr. Yavuz.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0102par0090	Mr. President, the speaker has criticised the opposition's speech.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0103par0091	What criticism?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0102par0092	It's about the assignment. I'd like to take a crack at this.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0104par0093	What sentence did he make, Mr. Agha?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0102par0094	▪ Look at this form of opposition. The appointment of members of the board in the form of...... underestimating...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0105par0095	That's criticism, not teasing.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0104par0096	Here you go, Mr. Agha. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Please, don't challenge a new taunt. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0106par0102	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Republican People's Party, reiterated its views on the structure of the Human Rights Council and thinks it's very important. Now, Mr. Speaker, in some countries in Europe, the king throws, the queen throws; in France, the president casts a sentence like that. Now, dear friends, all the countries there are countries that fit the Paris Treaty. What does he say in this deal? And you know very well that this is not the opinion of my party or the opinion of my party, this is an agreement that all countries have signed in Europe. Now, according to this reason that you often stress the reasons for the law that we call the Paris Principles of Paris, which you've made, it says: "Have you appointed a member of the civil society organizations, unions, such as law organizations, physicians, journalists, scientists, to come together? Let me know, for God's sake, if I don't know, from a bar, or from a physician's office, or from a doctor's room? Look, dear friends, your record is clear on this, your background is clear. We say if you're sincere, you can't investigate human rights violations with this structure of the board, you can't find a solution. If you remember, you were in the Commission, look, the Human Rights Association spoke, the AZLUMDER spoke, the organisations spoke, and that law passed through the Commission in about two hours, dear friends. Now, is all that the opposition says wrong, all that we say is wrong? So, we say, look, follow the Paris Principles, appoint the people whose names are written in the Paris Principles, and the European countries are throwing away the people who came from this democratic mass organization, so they can't throw out my uncle's son, they can't throw out their political relatives, they can't throw out the people who have been elected to Congress, they can't throw out the people from the civil society in an objective way. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0107par0106	Thank you, Mr. Agha. The talks on the entire bill for political party groups and individuals have ended.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0108par0111	I demand a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0107par0112	Now we're going to do 20 minutes of QA. I'll start the questions. I'll call you when you're ready to make a decision, Mr. Special. First question, Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0109par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there is a concept of discrimination in the 10th article of our Constitution. It says that the things that break the equation... there is no concept of all of them here. And there's also no word about discrimination, one by one, and so on. You'll appreciate that, in our Constitution, international contracts... And for similar reasons, there is no distinction. However, isn't this decision in this bill a violation of these contracts, or is that going to cause a lot of problems in the future? This is the third article. Again, in the 7th article (b), it is said that only situations that require the employment of a certain gender are called............ So it says here that discrimination can be discriminated against in a certain situation. Is this not contrary to positive discrimination in the 10th article of our Constitution? So let's say I work only for men, I don't hire women. When he says, does the joke of the 7th article (b) of this bill allow this?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0110par0121	Mr. Zeybek, please.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0111par0122	Mr. President, the pollution of drinking water in the central and boroughs of Samsun is one of the primary, primary problems. In the districts of Basza, Vezirköpru, Lâdik, Karak, Alaçam, Terme, Bafra, water is especially not drinkable, especially mudy water flows from the taps during rainy days. Although the pollution of water corrupts human health, people without economic power willingly drink from water flowing through the taps. Local municipalities are paid to take no precautions or to purify dirty water without decontamination. The Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism does not carry out its duties as it should, but protects AKP municipalities in its political ideas. We're warning the authorities of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. You're not doing your duty, you're playing with public health. In the days ahead...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0110par0125	Mr. All...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0112par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. The school principals who were dismissed in Balıkesir province are being transferred to the commission on grounds of the new regulation issued, despite winning the court, and the commission does not return these teachers to office by reevaluating them. How many teachers have you transferred to the commission that won the trial in Balıkesir? Are any of these commissions given a positive opinion and appointed managers? Isn't it a violation of the law not to enforce the court's decisions by enforcing regulations? Can court rulings be ruled out? Is it a coincidence that most of the school principals who have been relieved of duty have become members of the job?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0113par0133	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0114par0134	Mr. President, first of all, you know we're discussing the Human Rights Act. Of course, the minister didn't listen to the speakers, so let the minister answer the questions, please, which is what we're asking. If there's any respect for the House, if there's any respect for the questions asked, please, we'd like the Minister to answer those questions. Even that violates the rights of the congressman, human rights. I'd like to say that we don't agree to have another minister answer the questions here when the Human Rights Act is being discussed, and we don't think it's true.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0113par0135	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0115par0136	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, as you've all been keeping an eye on the public, it's Thursday, March 31st, 1700 hours. Turkish Pharmaceuticals Association and the Ministry of Labor and Social Security Social Insurance Agency's drug buy protocol is ending. In Turkey, 54 per cent of pharmacies strive to survive with a debt spiral, with a income below the poverty line. The demand for economic improvement by pharmacists will not be a blessing, but is crucial to the continuation of the vital drug supply. There's been problems like this in your Ministry before, and it's been dealt with. Today, on behalf of pharmacists, we ask that these talks be completed positively and our people continue to buy medicine from pharmacies, otherwise they will have to pay for medicine from their own pockets on April 1st. We demand that this matter be resolved immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0113par0138	Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0116par0139	Mr. Minister, in accordance with the question our Balıkesir MP has asked, we're asking you, especially when the school principals haven't returned to court yet, that about 8,000 principals have been deposed in Turkey and have been transferred to different areas, so when will the solution be for these school principals to return to their duties despite winning the court?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0113par0140	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0117par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the governorates had civil rights boards. I was a member of this board as head of the Mersin Medical Room. This board had only one task, Mr. Secretary, to cover up human rights violations. Now, won't the board appointed by the Council of Ministers and the President cover up human rights violations across the country? In my opinion, this board will have only one task, which will be to consider everything but its own worldview as a violation and to cover up any other violations. I hope that time will prove me wrong, and I hope that human rights violations will be thoroughly investigated.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0113par0143	Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0118par0144	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, the right to live in a healthy environment is, of course, one of the most basic human rights. Long-lived trees have been cut down on the way to Jalova. There's not much of a green field left anyway. Why can't we protect the green? Second, they're looking for a solution to the victims of professional high school students about the removal of additional points. Do you have a solution for this? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0119par0148	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0120par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there is multiple discrimination in the 1st (c) of the first joke, which he considers to be discrimination, among the types of discrimination in the 4th article. There's direct and indirect discrimination, but the opposite of multiple discrimination is not banned. So, there's a benefit here that we can put the term "equal" or "equal" between these types of discrimination. Isn't the fact that it's considered a violation in terms of the law's technique going to lead to future abuses? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0121par0152	Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0122par0153	Mr. President, the Minister is here. Although Samsun Ladik is the first village in the watering area connected to the Deepöz Dam, the pinesville watering pond has been the first to pass through the canals, we see that in a process that has been followed since 2007, no 200 per cent area has been watered and no waterable project has been included in it, and there has been a negative discrimination here. We wish that somehow they would be stopped, and that the village, the Pineville land, would be irrigable again.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0121par0154	Mr. Yilmaz Tezcan...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0123par0155	Mr. President, thank you. My fellow lawmakers, of course -- as a physician -- the medical rooms have so far been denied the rights of our physicians by their ideological approach to matters. At this point, I would like to say that the medical examiners' office, which was established to protect the rights of physicians, an NGO, should also step in on the agreement between the SGK and pharmacists today, and that the pharmacists and the SGK must agree on medicine. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0124par0158	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0125par0159	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we're going to lift the bans. You asked the nation for votes, you got votes, and you came to the head. Now, for God's sake, one day, when you get on a plane, ask for a Republican newspaper, you don't read it, but see if you can find it, ask for a Speaker's newspaper, ask for a Yurt newspaper, will you find these newspapers on planes? Now, what right do you have to limit my right to know? Isn't that a human rights violation? If this board is set up, I'm already making the first complaint. I'm complaining about people who don't put newspapers on these planes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0124par0161	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. The questions are over. Now, I promise the government answers. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Mr. President, thank you very much. And I want to thank all my fellow congressmans for asking questions. Now, first of all, I respect the friends who evaluate the matter of the concerned minister, the friend in charge of the law, who has to answer, but as a result, it is necessary to have a minister who represents the government in accordance with our regulations. So I'm going to say that I don't find such a distinction right. Besides, Mr. Agha is an experienced politician. And I watched him speak very carefully here. This is about the rights we're talking about. Human rights are extremely important. There's an arrangement. With this arrangement, the existing Turkish Human Rights Institution has been further developed, including the draft work we've done earlier on the fight against discrimination under the European Union's legislation, bringing to your attention what we might call "sunful." Since it's about rights, it's an arrangement that's important because it's about human rights, but as you know, animal rights don't matter? How important. I mean, when I was watching you from the podium, you looked at me with this light-tailed intel. Of course, I know you don't mean it, but animal rights are very, very important, and plant rights are very important.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0126par0169	You're not messing with him, either.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0127par0170	Do not interfere with Cerattepe. Of course, Cerattepe is also very important. Now, they're all alive: animals, plants, human beings.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0128par0173	Mr. Secretary, you're not dealing with them either! I think you've upset animal-loving associations. Bravo, that's what you got out of here! Therefore, those who have no respect for animals and nature have no respect for humans. (EC PARTY Applause) That's why I don't want to make a distinction between the ministers, what we should make a distinction between the living and the living, and that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0129par0177	You're from Artvin. You remember Cerattepe, don't you? Now, sir, Mr. Tanal has made some assessments regarding discrimination. You have made an assessment here that for reasons similar to that, there should also be a reference. I've also told my friends that, technically, if there is a situation in which there really is a breach of the Constitution, friends, we're having a discussion on the broader generality of the law, all of these articles are subject to evaluation, and I want to make it clear that these are concepts that need to be evaluated in detail, and the words have to be added. The same thing is that our friends will consider your statement regarding the conditions that make it necessary in Article 7 of the article. The purpose of the work at the General Assembly is to complete them. As you know, there is no drinkable water in Samsun, or water in some routes, it has something to do with water units established in the city's capital after the city's law -- which, if I'm not mistaken, is in Samsun. Let's give that to the mayor ourselves. If we have Samsun MPs, I think they've already delivered them. Samsun MP didn't ask the question! I mean, in this sense, because you're asking the government about our friends in power, it's not an answer that means that Samsun wasn't a congressman. There have been some questions about national education. We'll also inform our Minister of National Education about the decision of the judiciary regarding our school principals and what kind of action has been made at the point of implementing this decision, and they'll provide information, and we'll get them to answer your questions in writing. Mr. Aydın, the Turkish Pharmaceuticals Association and Social Security Agency have brought up a matter that hasn't happened yet, they said. If I'm not mistaken, it ends on the 31st of the month, and right now I know that our Ministry of Labor and Social Security has been in contact with the Turkish Pharmaceuticals Association for a long time. There's been a lot of controversy over these issues in the past years, but with the awareness that over 24,000 of our pharmacists have provided very important services, the Social Security Foundation has always owned our pharmacists, and I can safely say that today, as a result of these evaluations, it will result in a compromise again. Because in a sense it's a public service, a very important service. I'd also like to give you an appreciation of what points we've reached yesterday to today on drug access to our citizens. What problems were there in finding drugs, in access to medicine, these were eliminated during our administration. Now, let's not have any problems with the pharmacists. It's trying, it didn't happen yesterday, and I want to say that it's going to be settled in agreement today. Mr. Horseman, there were human rights boards within the government to cover up human rights violations. Now, friends, we have an important law here, and an institution called the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey is being redesigned, and while this is being established, I personally don't think it's right to exaggerate so much about who the board is going to be. Now, I think that such an important law should be brought forward so that the Kurul can perform a function? What are you going to hide during this period of communication, what is possible to remain hidden? So it's out of the question for the board to behave sexually, arbitraryly. When you look at international scales, you look at the formation of the board in countries, and that's not a problem for them either. Therefore, this should not be a problem for us. Besides, the law doesn't come out on a day's day for governments; the laws that are passed are permanent laws, not limited to human life. Laws will remain, people will change, presidents will change, prime ministers will change, governments will change, but the law is made for the nation. Therefore, I would say that I personally don't think it's right to bring this matter up there. There was a question about the scholarship. Our esteemed MP told us that trees were cut down on the way to Yalova in Bursa. I am a witness to the hard work of the government and the mayors of the central government in the development of the greenness of Burma. So, perhaps, for road, transportation and a similar reason, I don't know specifically, but if there are a number of trees in this way, know once again that this has been done by doing more than tens of them, and I want to rephrase the sensitivity of local executives and central administration in this regard. It's about Samsun. It's about watering land. Friends, the irrigable land in Turkey is 8.5 million hectares. 6.1 million hectares of 8.5 million hectares are now being watered, but there are now 3.1 million hectares of land to be watched. These numbers have an intensive study of our State Water Affairs, which is about increasing the ratings and watering 8.5 million hectares as soon as possible. And let's just say that as the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, we have an intense pursuit and assessment of the increasing proportion of waterable land in particular. Finally, Mr. Pitcher, about the plane and the newspapers... For example, I read a newspaper last week when I arrived from Istanbul, and I don't know about that, but I'm saying something that happened to me. So I don't think it's right for such a big law to be reduced to...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0130par0190	I'm going to turn on your microphone, Mr. Secretary, and complete your statement. So I don't think it's right to reduce the issue when we're discussing such an important arrangement. I thank all my friends, thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0131par0194	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0130par0195	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0131par0196	Mr. President, according to the Civil Code 69... it was a different opinion from what I was suggesting... that Mr. Secretary and I were targeted by the animal rights advocates for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0130par0197	Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I promise you for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0131par0202	Thank you. Mr. President, dear friends, I have a word with our Minister of Agriculture and Animalism. GEDA, TRAVEL AND ANIMALITY FEARFIC (Shanliurfa) ▪ Food, Agriculture and Animalism. First, we knew in the past his thoughts about environmental rights, his ideas about Cerattepe, in the land where he was born, where he grew up, in his prime; and now we're wondering what he thinks of his mastery. I wonder what the Minister thinks about destroying the beautiful nature of all Artvin, all of the Black Sea, all of humanity, just to make an ally rich. Now, he said: "Animals also have rights." Of course animals have rights. Mr. Secretary, last semester our Istanbul MP, Mr. Melda Onur, did a study on this, proposed the law. The opinion of NGOs, even the AKP, has been taken to a stage, which unfortunately has not been passed. Now, this semester, our vice president, Mr. Zeynep Sixok, has offered me laws on this, and there's no progress again. Now, you've had a big talk, Mr. Secretary. I'm telling you here to fight. And I want you to make a promise here. We're giving a blank check on the removal of rights to these animals, so promise me that if you don't get them out of here, as the animal lovers say, the cats will paw the one who breaks his word. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0132par0210	Thank you, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0133par0211	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0132par0212	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0133par0213	Mr. President, while answering both of my questions, Mr. Secretary has offended me by saying that I've made it simple, that I've never asked anything relevant, if you don't mind...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0132par0214	Mr. Horseman, there's no bullying here. Now...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0133par0216	Then the Minister will take it back, sir. I can't narrow it down. I mean, I'm not a talker, but... it doesn't suit him.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0132par0217	He's on record, Mr. Shooter. Thank you. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I'll put it to your votes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0134par0224	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0132par0225	There is a demand for a sufficient number of decisions. I'll call the number of decisions in the vote. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, I'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's enough decision-making, it's agreed on.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0135par0231	Mr. President, I demand a brief word from my position.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0132par0232	Here, Mr. Special, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0135par0235	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we'd like to briefly determine a situation. There's a law that's so important that the Civil Code has given the ruling party group 20 minutes and 20 minutes to talk to the government about the discussion of this law, and there's a bill, and since the lack of discussion and the bill can't be explained well enough to the Parliament, and there's a lot of criticism in the public, I'd like to say to the ruling party group that I'm not going to say anything that's serious to the ruling party group, so it's very convenient, but it's very convenient that they don't prefer to talk about the whole bill, not to give information, not to defend it. That's all I have to say. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0136par0239	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0137par0240	Mr. President, I'd like a word from the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0136par0241	Mr. Baluken, here, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0137par0243	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, some media reports have reported today that the United States of America has called for the immediate evacuation of the area for its citizens in Adana, Mughla and İzmir. And we know this news is serious, based on some sources and websites in the Pentagon. These sources say they have made such a call, especially based on information they received from the government of Turkey. Again, a few days ago, the Israeli State had a security call for its citizens, who lived in Turkey. While the Minister is here, I'd like to state that we're expecting a statement from the government on this matter. If there really is a serious security issue at this level, if the government has information that threatens the security of all citizens with current intelligence information, we think it should not only be shared with other countries' governments, but it should be shared naturally with the peoples of Turkey and Turkey. This is why we care about this: Before the recent bombings in Istiklal, there was information that some foreign intelligence services in particular provided, and in that direction, some of the countries sent instructions to their consulates or embassies to be closed in those days. Now these were not considered, and if you recall, the current position of the governor of Istanbul was in a position to deny all that information. But while the Governor of Istanbul denied this information, we witnessed the bombings on Istiklal Street, and a painful bill came out in front of all our people. So if there's a new situation and there's information being shared based on this direction, the upper curtain and the government of Turkey, we think the government should inform the Parliament and the entire Turkish public. Or it could be Mr. Secretary, or a concerned minister could quickly be called to the House and make a statement about it. This, I think, is either a warning or a relief to Turkey's public opinion on at least certain issues. I would like to express that we must not withhold this information from our own citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0138par0246	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Cakir, I see you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0139par0250	Mr. President, thank you. In accordance with the law we're talking about, what Mr. Free Private Deputy Chief of the CHP Group, Mr. Free is conveying is unfair and does not reflect the truth. Because we, based on the importance of this law, have brought this institution here to renovate the existing institution in the form of a bill, and it has been discussed on the commission. It's been discussed enough, it's not discussed, it's a separate bet. But after the bill went down to the General Assembly, we had a discussion with Mr. Secretary here as group vice presidents to show that we were still open to a number of questions, our sensitivity to demand, criticism and contribution, and we removed Mr. Minister from his seat, we went to the rear and continued negotiations in a sense. Mr. Free Private participated in part of these negotiations, Mr. Levent. So much so that since the debate was not over and it did not end, we also paused for the CHP speaker to make the speech. I mean, I'll tell you that much. Now, after all the sensitivity and sensitivity we've shown to this subject, it's unfair, unfair, to say the truth. Besides, if Mr. Special still thinks there's not enough debate... it's his own discretion to talk about the State's speech, the government's speech, or the majority of the ruling party. This is not the opinion of the Free Special, or of another group's deputy or MP, or of a third person, we decide that. However, if Mr. Special still believes that there is not enough discussion on this issue, we will make a motion to resume negotiations according to Article 72 of the Civil Code, and we will proceed with it. It's absurd to say that after there's no request for an interview about it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0140par0254	Let's move on, let's make a joint motion.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0141par0255	Thank you, Mr. Cakir.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0140par0256	Would you excuse me, sir?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0141par0257	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0140par0259	Mr. President, I don't want to push your tolerance any further, but you do give us a lot of opportunity, but you have to be clear, for once, the General Assembly is essential. The warnings we've already had when the negotiations started, it means that he's right, that a table has been set up right now, and thanks to him, the Minister is there, and our friends are there. But on the one hand, the Parliamentary General Assembly is running out of say-so on a bill that may be very radical, and on the other hand, the Minister is unable to come forward and explain it for 20 minutes. But there's no need to insist. We can settle right now. The negotiations on all of them have already been completed, they've already been transferred. Parliament completes its work -- everyone is tired -- on Tuesday, but the work of the Minister and our friends continues, and we contribute, and talks continue on the concrete side without a blind fight tomorrow. But Mr. Group Vice President's approach to the relevant Article of the Civil Charter is important, so if they're willing to go ahead, he says, I'm ready to sign the joint motion immediately, and I'm waiting for the motion to continue negotiations. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0142par0261	That's for the General Assembly to decide.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0143par0262	We'll all decide together.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0144par0263	Mr. President, about that, I'd like to say a few words...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0145par0264	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0144par0266	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, when you do not create a proper method and argument mechanism, while the General Assembly debates continue, you are in fact giving away the Right to Information of the General Assembly in some way, under the name of the institution. Now, both the Minister and the members of the board of the ruling party wish they had run this consultation process through the Commission. During the commission, they ignored a single motion from the opposition. Taking into consideration no proposal from human rights agencies or representatives of NGOs...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0146par0268	They took it, sir, they took it.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0144par0269	Many of those human rights agencies left the meeting because they didn't have an argument there. In fact, after a certain part of the discussion -- at least on behalf of my own party -- some of the opposition party members also left the meeting. Therefore, it is wrong to be closed to any proposal that comes from the commission stage, to ignore any motion there, to not include any proposal that comes from NGOs or human rights organizations, in their own work from the very beginning. Now, when all this isn't done, you know, let the General Assembly work from one side without a break, and let's conduct a consultation in the back. When you say, of course, there's an interrogation about seriousness and intimacy. As a matter of fact, there are a lot of lawmakers in the General Assembly who can't keep up with the debates on this commission. For example, many of my lawmakers, many of our friends in my group, were there with our people to follow the human rights violations in the cities of the illegal curfews imposed by the AKP, and they did not have the chance to follow up on the debates on this commission, but while the General Assembly is being discussed, what does the ruling party group bring with this bill? So, I would like to point out that the right of our fellow lawmakers to receive information directly from the government or the ruling party, directly from the first and from the parliamentary bench, has been clearly violated by the government and the ruling party group here.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0147par0271	Please, pick it up, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0144par0272	I'll wrap it up. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the need to consult this consultation is based on the truth of criticism from the opposition, rather than on the opposition proposals from the ruling party group or the government. We have stated that since the Constitution is contrary to 90, there has been an international agreements binding Turkey, the legal arrangement cannot meet the need and cannot go through certain procedures for the EU and for the United Nations. Again, a number of criticisms have been made regarding financial autonomy. So, rather than consulting the opposition's proposals, they applied for a consultation because of a need for non-responsive legal regulation in these international mechanisms. I wanted to file a report like this.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0148par0275	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0149par0276	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0148par0277	The commission's demanding word. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0149par0280	Well, now, Mr. President, I don't want to push your time. Thank you. I'd like to brief you briefly because we have some information here. These, in the end, must have been surprised by the friends who were there. A friend of ours said it was an hour and a half. The friends there know that we have discussed all matters. We had a seven-hour debate, not an hour and a half, on the Commission.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0150par0284	It didn't take that long, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0149par0285	The second thing is, if that's the case, we've changed 9 articles, considering the suggestions of our friends, and we've all done it together as members of the Commission. In other words, Mr. Baluken, even the proposals of the trustees were not considered. But what's interesting is that friends of their own group, even their written motions, left without discussion. So, without relevant friends, we evaluated their negotiations there, and we decided on them. So, the Commission has done its part. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0151par0288	Thank you, Mr. Yeneroglu.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0152par0289	Which group do you mean?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0153par0290	Mr. President, of course, Mr. President has made a clear case of bullying our group during his statement. I mean, despite the motions being taken into consideration, he's left our group under suspicion, expressing that we've been giving false information here and leaving the Commission unnecessarily. We want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0154par0292	Mr. Baluken, I'm going to ask for the minutes, and I'm going to consider your request.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0153par0293	Mr. President, but...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0154par0294	I didn't see any bullying in the general sequence of the conversation, but I may have missed it, I might have.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0153par0295	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0154par0296	I'll get the transcripts, I'll evaluate them.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0153par0297	All right, then.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0155par0298	Mr. President, Mr. Commissioner said it took seven hours. It didn't take seven hours. We've got a full report, we can bring it in, and it didn't take more than three hours, Mr. President, and he's on the line... so there were speakers from NGOs coming in. We insisted: "Let there be a subcommittee, let there be opinions from the university, at least from the Justice Commission, from the Constitutional Commission." Unfortunately, the number of votes passed without that discussion. So he didn't have a very detailed discussion.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0154par0299	Thank you, Mr. Tanal, it's been filed.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0156par0300	Now, Mr. President, the esteemed representative who was just spoken for the Commission, the commissioner, used this statement -- because he was here -- he said that the opposition parties left without following the consequences of their motions, and we processed their absences.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0157par0301	For God's sake! I made it very clear.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0158par0302	Which group was it?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0156par0303	Which group do you mean?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0157par0304	It's very clear, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0158par0305	Well, now you've heard it's a tease.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0159par0306	One second, Mr. Lawmakers, I've stated that I'm going to bring in the minutes, and Mr. Special has asked the Commissioner a question, and I'm going to evaluate all of them...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0158par0307	Mr. President, there's just one thing: let's just wait for the transcripts. When I said that I couldn't follow your explanation enough, I may have overlooked it. I took such an attitude out of respect for your word. But now, Mr. Commissioner, upon the question of Mr. Free Private, I clearly meant the HDP Group.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0159par0308	Wait a second...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0158par0309	Of course, I mean the HDP Group." he says.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0159par0310	Mr. Baluken, Mr. Commission, if Mr. Yeneroglu made such a statement from there, this statement was not heard from the Court. He didn't talk on the microphone, he didn't talk on the microphone, so I didn't hear that explanation. Then I promise Mr. Commission again. Mr. Private had a question, and I assume you gave him an answer; the Court and the General Assembly did not hear enough. Could you please explain that again?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0160par0313	Mr. President, in my first speech, I made it very clear and clear that the friends in the HDP Group who submitted the motion in writing came out after they had submitted the motion, and I said, "We evaluated their motion while they were outside, and we agreed." I mean, there's no bullying about it. If you want to determine the situation in this matter, friends are here, you ask them, they'll confirm it themselves. Other than that, Mr. Tanal, look at the relevant reports, bring them in; you will identify them yourself, go ahead. So I'm just being clear. I said it took about six or seven hours, so I repeat.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0159par0315	Thank you, Mr. Yeneroglu.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0161par0316	Mr. President, Mr. Commissioner's statements indicate that we have a party to discuss.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0159par0317	Now, yes, I've already stated that I'm going to bring in the transcripts, but there has been a claim from Mr. Baluken that Mr. Yeneroglu has assaulted the People's Democratic Party Group with another statement. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0161par0319	Mr. Ayhan Bilgen will answer.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0159par0320	Here you go, Mr. Bilgen. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0162par0325	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I mean, it's true that we left the meeting, but the reason we left...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0163par0326	Wait a minute, look, he confirmed it.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0164par0327	We told you, they left... because you didn't care.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0162par0328	...the possibility that our proposals will grow, so there's no way to prepare the motions, and in that narrow period of time, there's no way to make the motions on all those substances. We quickly looked at the pressure to end it, and the human rights organizations, the organisations who worked most hard in Turkey, made it clear that they were completely, completely against it, and our proposals no longer have the ability to grow and evaluate. So instead of being part of a scenario like this, we'd rather protest and withdraw, but then we sent our martyrs. So we did it very clearly here because we thought that in order for this law to be acretized, there would be a need for a serious arrangement of both the way the board was formed and other dimensions.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0164par0329	I wish CHP had left too.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0162par0330	So this board, this mechanism, we built it, we created it. The logic of its creation would also damage this Parliament, and then it would damage the country's position in the international arena. So if we didn't insist, if you had passed it here, if it had come to the Commission as it came from the government, would it have been a better job? I mean, we would have gotten rid of it, but no one would take this board seriously in the international arena, nor would it have any respect for society. Even as we came here today, the human rights organizations asked us to leave this meeting, and they said, "Don't participate." They said, "Let the ruling party vote for itself."
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0165par0331	Don't you have your own will?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0166par0332	What human rights organizations are these?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0165par0333	Congressman, don't you have willpower? Are the NGOs leading you? Don't you have the will of those who vote for you?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0167par0334	However, we insisted that he be responsible and recover once again, don't do that. Look, these boards are struggling all over the world. His budget was cut by the government because the Danish Human Rights Foundation opposed the war. So even in the countries that you're looking at, these problems can't be solved, which, in a country like ours, is a much more serious risk to give full initiative to the government. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0168par0338	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1 to 16th article. On behalf of political party groups and their individuals, I will make a pledge to the members of parliament who want to speak on chapter one. The first speaker is Mehmet Parsak, MP of Afyonkarahisar on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Parsak. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0169par0349	St. Turkish nation and respected MPs, at the beginning of my words, I salute you all. Every time I've been on this stand since I've been elected MP, it's a pity that I had to start with those who were martyrs that day -- if they ran away, 3, 5, 10 15 -- asking for the mercy of the Almighty God, offering my condolences to our nation, even though I didn't want it to be so. In this context today, I felt relatively happy in this frame, because we didn't get any news of any martyrs during the day, but just a few minutes ago, I think we heard that a 24-year-old private police officer from Adana was killed after being wounded by a kanastrian, who was not saved in the hospital. Unfortunately, this tradition is not broken again. We have to offer our blessings and condolences to our beloved nation and to our family. Bless you. Mr. Secretary, let this blood be no more, and let there be a consequence in this struggle. We don't want to get the news of the martyrs as a nation any more -1, 3, 5, 10 - every day, and we don't want to be constantly expressing our condolences on these platforms. I'd like to bring this to your attention first. Honourable MPs, as I begin on behalf of my group on the first chapter of Law 149, I salute the Veteran Assembly once again. The first chapter of the Turkish Bill of Human Rights and Equality Act is composed of the initial provisions of the bill, the fight against discrimination, the institution's organization structure and its duties and the staff regime. The institutions established by these and similar legislations are being structured as a sort of upper board, as well as their purpose and duties; on the other hand, all of their membership assignments are given to the Council of Ministers and the President, as if they had different perspectives. No rule of law or legal can explain why a private institution with administrative and financial autonomy associated with the prime minister should submit an annual report to the president of a public corporate institution. Frankly, that goes against reason and reason. If this and such institutions were to be structured in this way, which already have many regulations on the matters in which he is in office, it could be considered an attempt to expand the President's powers and increase his power of custody over the government. As a result of this position, the AKP will be able to reach the direct commitment of all institutions in Turkey in time to the presidency or to institutions that account for the presidency instead of the Court. It is clear that this attitude is intended to make the President the chosen king. However, I'd like to put it this way, for centuries, that the king you've created in your own dreams is naked, and this country will not be ruled by a kingdom. ▪ Is there more kings in the government than kings in the state where the AKP-style kingdom system is being discussed these days, with special provisions and special powers being given to the President? It seems that some government members would like to present gifts to the President in this manner, regardless of the government or with the government. Regardless of your intentions, I would like to state that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the assembly of the great Turkish nation and will not be used to your internal political games. Dear members of the Veteran Assembly, however recently some of your ministers have said that I do not know this Constitution. Again and again, the Republic of Turkey is a state of law. The Republic of Turkey has a constitution, even though it has flaws and flaws, and whether we all want it or not, we have to obey this Constitution because we all have sworn on it. Precious lawmakers, I find it useful to point out that we are facing another bill that will not be fully implemented, and will almost never be implemented by power and fans, but will serve the lie of democraticisation of power. The bill prohibits any discrimination, including intimidation at work and harassment. If you pay attention to the testimony of the bill in Article 5 (5), which determines the scope of the ban on discrimination, it is evident that it is all about the basic rights and freedoms of our Constitution. According to this clause, for example, there is a ban on discrimination in moving public and renting property. But can this law be applied to a government that has changed the Law on Public Contraction 167 times since its deployment? According to the same clause, discrimination against associations, unions is also prohibited. But can it change the fact that those who are not members of the yellow union can't get promotions, that they've been exposed to rank, that they've had major problems with transfers and relocations, that they've been exiled to places where even the state's security forces have worked for months to clear, that they've been denied rights on the housing and so forth, that they've been pushed aside, that they've been tried to be intimidated by disciplinary procedures? Precious lawmakers, the criteria for membership in Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Council, envisioned by law, have been all-consuming procedures, such as having knowledge and experience of the institution's field of office, four years of licensing, working in a public institution, a civil society institution, or a private sector for a total of ten years. But we've also seen that there's a basis for reconciliation where there might be a change in consultations that have just been held inside. So, by keeping our criticisms hidden, I'm going to use my words in this box to express them for the time being. It's a dreamer to believe that these problems will be solved or reduced by Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Agency, which, apparently, has been established primarily to keep track of human rights violations and discrimination treatments in our country. He needs to know that power cannot be achieved without changing its own mentality and understanding of governance by establishing an institution and writing down the international norms it himself has violated. As in fighting terrorism and preventing corruption, the main point of the fight on human rights violations is intimacy. These tenacuses of power and their two-way approach are not unique to this law alone. In a recent decision made by the Constitutional Court, the deputy head of the ruling party announced the president's statement of the matter in a manner of speaking separately in the morning and separately in the afternoon, bringing us all this story: this is the story, the king called his clown one day and asked for eggplant foods to be made in his palace. His clown also gathered all the cooks and, of course, the chef, and began to rank the blessings of the eggplant: the Patlican is healthy, so delicious, so good, so good. And finally, he said: "Our king wants you to make a variety of eggplant foods for it, all kinds of eggplants." The next day, this time, the king called on his clown again to say that he was tired of eating eggplant, that eggplant was useless, that it wasn't actually delicious. When the same clown called on the same chef and the same cooks again, and said this time that the eggplant was not healthy at all, that it was not good at all, that it was no good, that the chef had found it in the service: &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Yes, how delicious, how healthy.&lt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Yes, I am not the king's clown,&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;i&gt;I am not the clown of the eggplant.&lt;/i&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;i&gt;i&gt;i&gt;i&gt;i&gt;i&gt;i&gt;i&gt;i&gt;i&gt; Therefore, I am acting in that frame, whatever the king wants, and you should act in that direction. Yes, by limiting my criticism only to this story at this time of night, without further delay, I salute the Grand Council, the Veteran Assembly, and you once again.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0170par0365	Thank you, Mr. Parsak. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0171par0367	Mr. Speaker has brought a review of the non-existent AK PARTY deputy president, which is possible, but with the example he's given, he meant to say to our group vice president, it's rude.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0172par0368	No, sir, I told a story. That's the story I started with. Mr. Hodja, that's the story I started.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0171par0369	That's a shameless analogy. I demand a say in this frame.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0173par0370	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0174par0371	Statement, same person. That's all I can say.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0175par0372	That's the story I started. I told a story.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0176par0375	Mr. President, dear friends, criticism of the statements made here can be voiced, but in the department of style. I'm limiting the criticism to this. You can't tell Mr. President that he's the king, and you can't call the AK PARTY deputy president. It's a shame, I condemn you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0175par0376	I told him a story. That's the story.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0176par0377	The story you're telling doesn't fit the pattern here. What you're doing doesn't apply to the standards and morals of a speech in Parliament. Of course you can bring up criticism in your speech, but what kind of a relationship are you talking about over a metaphor like that? You're talking about the sample you gave us, and you're calling our friend "the robber." I'm returning the same to you. That's a shameless analogy!
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0175par0379	That's what you mean.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0177par0380	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0178par0381	You're showing your own mood! Does it look good on you?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0179par0382	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0177par0383	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0179par0384	Mr. Speaker has stated that he did not create such a disease, but Mr. Naci Bostancı has established such a disease.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0180par0385	What ills, Mr. Vural, what ills? His metaphor is obvious.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0179par0386	You're the one who made the real thing happen. So, in this regard, I think there's something the Justice and Development Party has to say about you by taking the word out about your bullying.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0180par0387	Don't play language games, Mr. Vural, don't play language games.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0181par0388	They're fucking stale!
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0179par0389	You're the one who made it, so you can think of him.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0180par0390	It's a shame, it's a shame!
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0179par0391	So if you think of something else when it's called rain, what do you say? What's he gonna say?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0182par0392	Look at your own mood.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0183par0393	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0179par0394	I mean, you're the one who created the disease. How did you create such a disease? Look in the mirror, answer to yourselves.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0183par0398	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mahmut Tanal is an Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Tanal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0184par0402	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with respect and respect. The bill we're discussing is the Bill of Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution. This bill came to the Human Rights Review Commission in a very urgent situation. In the Human Rights Review Commission, all political parties have been asked to first ask the universities about this bill, the NGOs working in this area, and there has been no possibility of being asked to discuss it from anywhere. However, in this regard, even though a subcommittee has been requested to be set up for further examination of the bill, to determine its shortcomings, its excesses, its mistakes, the explosion was made for that day, and it was discussed in a very rapid situation in the Commission and came to the General Assembly. Of course, during the Commission, we submitted verbally and as written proposals to the Commission, but none of our proposals were taken seriously, but at this point, all of the contradictions that I would say on these articles alone will realize how accurate these shortcomings are, at the head of the General Assembly, and at the head of all public institutions and television, all of our citizens watching on the Internet. Mr. Secretary, of course, we've discussed this with you at the Commission, we've talked about it, but I don't think we've been able to explain it, or you didn't want to understand it. The purpose of this law is to prevent discrimination and discrimination, to ensure equality, to make it effective across the country. When we look at the principle of equality and discrimination in Article 3 of the Article 3 of the Criminal Code, there are surely these declarations in the principle of equality under which we have signed both our Constitution and Article 90 of the Constitution, according to the international agreements that we have agreed to, such as: The concept of equality can be discriminated against by language, race, color, gender, gender, philosophy, religion and sect. This law does not forbid segregation in this sense, dear friends. Although we have repeatedly expressed this in the context of the Minister's presence in the Commission, they have not been compared. So, due to segregationism, you can fire, not hire, you can discriminate for the idea of sectarianism. In that sense, this law does not prevent it. A second issue is that people may also be discriminated against because of their sexual orientation in discrimination and equality. There's no equality, there's no discrimination here. That's the law that's against the law. Again, we go on, see, I read the first joke in the 10th article of our Constitution: "Everyone, language, race, color, gender, political thinking, philosophical belief, religion, sect and so on is equal to the law without distinction." It's only appreciated, so you can't expand it except for those reasons. This is the part that exists -- we have friends in law -- and this is a violation of the Constitution, contrary to international contracts, in case there are no such reasons. Now, here, while we continue, there are discrimination principles in Article 4 of the article. He has banned multiple discrimination in the principles of discrimination, and has not forbidden single discrimination. In this sense, direct and indirect discrimination is prohibited. I wish single discrimination was banned here. The scope of the ban on discrimination on Article 5 is used in municipalities, for example, on the use of ▪billboards, how can we fit it in Article 5? This is one of the most exposed points of political parties during election times. Here we come again in the (b) column of the 7th article (b), the title of the article, where the declaration of discrimination cannot be advanced, is called the conditions that make the employment of a certain sex mandatory only in the context of the 7th article (b). Here, in terms of positive discrimination in the 10th article of our Constitution, again, it violates the 10th article of the Constitution. Now, when we look at the law, there's the formation of the board in Article 10. Dear friends, of course, as an example -- for example, the European Union -- when we looked at France, there were four boards in France until 2011, in terms of the human rights board; there was the Equality Board, there was the Ethics Council, there was the Arbitration Board, and there was the Human Rights Council. After 2011, these four boards became just one board, the People's Controllers, the ombudsman. So, how many boards do we have in Turkey right now? There's the Human Rights Board, there's the Obudsman, there's the People's Control, and that's what we're taking down the Human Rights Foundation with, and it's being made into the Human Rights and Equality Foundation. The condition that the European Union is looking for here is that such boards have to have an active, independent and true control authority, and in this respect it is wanted independent of the executive body, the political authorities. When we look at world practices and look at countries in the European Union, all of these institutions tasked with overseeing human rights are selected according to the representation of political groups in parliament, and the president is also elected by parliament for a majority of two-thirds. What's the point of that? At least to ensure the president's neutrality, to ensure his easy work, to provide an active and independent environment. So, when we look at this, why are we doing this arrangement when we're doing it? If the Prime Minister is remembered, sir, the right to free movement will come to the European Union, visas will not be requested, freedom of movement will have to leave Parliament immediately. I ask Mr. Minister now: Mr. Minister, if this law passes like this, what is the basis of the European Union? It's based on the Paris Principles. So, if this is not in accordance with the Paris Principles, if the European Union does not accept this, then who will be responsible for this if the free movement, visa rights, does not come to this citizen? We're here to warn you about this as opposition. Look, the arrangement here is contrary to the Paris Principles, the present is against our Constitutional Minister. So, the 10th article of the Constitution prohibits and prevents the segregation, but you refuse to add the concept of this sect again, even though we insist on it in the Commission. We're not in charge here, so we always remind you of that. In accordance with the Paris Principles, you can appreciate that there's a rating system for this board, group A, group B, group C. In terms of scale, the top group is group A. Under this arrangement, Turkey will not have reached the level of Equality and Human Rights Institution, which has been established by the European Union and has been found so far. In fact, we say that in this institution, at least half of the members should be women. There's only four years of faculty division here in the law. I mean, no one who's ever worked in the human rights field is given a priority on this board, not a quality. When it comes to this situation, there is a possibility that those who have not worked in the field of human rights will also be elected to the board. This board will be diverted from its purpose, and the countries of the European Union will be misled. Sir, is there an Association for Equality and Human Rights in Turkey, but what is its content? Bring it, you don't like it... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] For example, where was this arrangement made in Spain? In the Spanish arrangement, parliament elects the president, its members are selected according to the representation rate of each political party, and this tradition has been in Spain for 40 years. I thank you, I pay my respects, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0185par0419	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Burcu Çelik Özkan is a member of the Mush MP. Here you are, Mr. Steel Özkan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0186par0424	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to submit to the General Assembly's discretion as an additional information to the earlier debate: we have done such an efficient work in the Human Rights Commission that we, together with the Minister, are still in the back, negotiating on the bill, perhaps continuing to negotiate. We've all had our own discussions at the Human Rights Commission, so there's no need to go on and on here. But really, the fact that what the bill aims to do, what this institution is built for, and when this bill is taken into consideration, the fact that the opinion of NGOs and no part of this bill has been removed in the process of the law is really a sign of how out of function we are here. Now, I would like to briefly renegotiate what we've been going through with the Human Rights Commission and a few of my views on the first part of this bill on behalf of the group. Now, the 90th article of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey was highly discussed here. The final paragraph, in particular, represents the hierarchical value of international contracts in our laws. What's this? It's an regulation of what law will be valid when international contracts are faced with an internal law, and it's well-known by the entire Parliament that the international law, of course, is a priority. Several human rights contracts with Turkey as a signator and committees, which are the regulatory body, see the establishment of institutions that specialize in certain issues as both important and necessary to oversee and prevent human rights violations in the community. Principles relating to the Status of National Institutions established for the Development and Protection of Human Rights, which was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1993, so as you all know, the Paris Principles have the most important and effective standards for the work of national institutions in the field of discrimination and human rights. The Paris Principles are a part of advice without commitment, but it is also known that countries are being considered politically and ethically to ensure independence and authority for their institutions. The Human Rights and Equality Association Legislature of Turkey is clearly acting contrary to this arrangement when it is assessed in the context of the formation of the board, as stated earlier. Under the visa liberalisation and feedback agreement between the European Union and Turkey, this draft text, developed in a hurry under the expected legal regulations, is not capable of meeting Turkey's international obligations or the political criteria of the European Union. Representatives of human rights organisations who have been invited to the commission meeting have left the commission meeting, saying that they did not participate in the drafting of the legislation against the Paris Principle, and that there are no provisions to guarantee their participation in the decision-making process, and that there are no considerations to the proposal so far. Dear friends, the bill must at this stage stand down in its absolute form. The overall reason for the bill is the establishment of a single institution for the protection of human rights, the fight against discrimination, torture and abuse of national prevention mechanisms. Laws on the institutional structure of the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey... the bill, which is clearly out of the scope of international objections and criticisms expressed by civil society agencies, has been created with a perspective that fills all values in a single bag in topics that cannot be fought without guaranteeing independence. There are very serious discussions about the structure of the board. The current board structure consists of 11 members; 3 members are elected by the President and 8 members by the Council of Ministers. This new structure, allegedly designed to meet the need for strengthening the existing Turkish Human Rights Institution, falls behind the Human Rights Institution Act, creating a structure entirely dependent on the Council of Ministers. The decision-making body of the proposed institution... will be determined by appointing all members of the board, and the chairman and vice presidents of the board will be elected by the Prime Minister, and even internal regulations of the institution will be subject to the approval of the Council of Ministers. Such an institution cannot be expected to be independent when it assesses its executive body in terms of human rights. The service units, whose structure cannot be defined and whose number will not exceed, are named as presidents. The existing Turkish Human Rights Institution Act does not even include broadly defined and inactive service units. Furthermore, the establishment of offices stated to open in seven regions, the decision to be removed, even by ministers appointed by the Prime Minister or Prime Minister, is an important sign that the envisioned structure is intended to be built under the control of the government. An individual application for human rights violations is not expected to meet the expected function of an institution that will not be able to address the rights demands other than the limited basis of discrimination, which cannot self-examine public institutions, which cannot even determine its own way of working. There's a provision called income. There's a rule, Article 23, there's a financial independence here. The institution itself is able to move, acquire immovable goods, and re-supply their revenues, and gain income from them, but there are no provisions regarding the control of the institution's revenues. Again, this is a matter that must be discussed in the bill. The provisional clause in the existing Turkish Human Rights Act has been arranged for the transfer of the Prime Ministerate's Human Rights Presidency to the Human Rights Institution of Turkey, which has not yet been institutionalized, while the adoption of Turkey's Human Rights Institution to Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution is under way. The U.N. Convention Against Torture, which was developed to prevent torture, as well as the national prevention mechanism task, which should be created by the elective protocol of the United Nations Torture -- we call it OPCAT -- is that the national prevention mechanism has been completely emptied, without any respect for the needs of this mechanism. Remember, at this point at the 2013 meeting, Turkey was informed that this institution should be reassessed, and that this mechanism should be rebuilt again. The removal of the bill on the Ministry of Interior as the draft of the Anti-Segregation and Equality Act for six years without consulting processes, avoiding a comprehensive, holistic, sincere law on fighting discrimination, strengthening criticism and concerns that there is no agenda for the protection of human rights and principles of equality. In addition, sexual orientation on discrimination against women and the fact that gender identity has not been excluded, that the basis of discrimination has not been covered and clearly specified, that the types of discrimination are not fully covered, that the definitions are incomplete in some areas and that the definitions are not made in some areas, that the bill has been prepared by an illegitimate approach. This bill, unfortunately, is not enough to protect individuals and groups exposed to growing discrimination and hatred every day, providing human rights and equality. In previous drafts, the consultation and consultation mechanism seen among the bodies of the institution was completely removed from the institutional structure and left to the discretion of the institutional administration. The removal or recognition of a structure that will strengthen the institution's relationship with civil society, make it stronger and legitimate in public opinion is a sign that the structure is imprisoned in the state bureaucracy. Under the principles of universal lawmaking, one of the main points of lawmaker's movement should be to bring the current state to a better place with the new law. The bill that is already in front of us is almost capable of searching for the old arrangement, beyond the fact that it is getting better. As a result, dear friends, when the existing law is in conflict with the principles and standards created in the field of fighting human rights, torture and discrimination, and is considered to be prepared in secret with NGOs, the subcommittee's work is not being conducted in a healthy manner, it is essential that the bill be withdrawn without discussion in the General Assembly and reopened. Our proposal is to withdraw to renegotiate the bill. Thank you all again, thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0187par0442	Thank you, Mr. Steel Özkan. Now, it's time for the talks on behalf of the individuals. First speaker on behalf of him, Nurhatat Altaca Kayışoğlu, Bursa MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0188par0448	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, yes, we're discussing a bill here, and our goal is to protect, prevent human rights, prevent discrimination, but I've seen in my lifetime: If we don't make an effort to establish human rights in a sincere way, then we see very clearly that this is not enough to protect human rights if we don't, in this way, in order to follow certain principles, in order to fit into the European Union. The concept of human rights is, in fact, a concept born on pain, born after the loss of millions of people after world wars, and, of course, the birth of the European Convention on Human Rights, the birth of international courts, and, as the European Court of Human Rights has stated, human rights, and human rights are living documents, and as the day goes on, it is rewritten, rewritten, and interpreted in a broader way in favor of the people. Of course, human rights protect the individual against the state, and the state's primary obligation to human rights is a negative obligation, so it's not to violate rights. If it has been violated, then its second positive obligation will step into action, so, like the purpose of the creation of this board, it is to ensure, prevent, prevent, enforce the rights that have been violated, implement the necessary sanctions, investigations, prosecutions, and to punish them effectively by conducting investigations. So, what's the situation in our country? As a lawyer, I can tell you very clearly that, for example, when you take the text from our laws on freedom and security rights, when you compare it to the text in international contracts, it's very clearly more advanced, but unfortunately when we apply it, we see the opposite. Now, if we don't teach you 24 hours of detention while we train law enforcement, we'll never be able to establish the right to freedom and security in this country unless we teach you that as an upper bound. For example, if we don't teach the judges about those catalogs of arrests when they're training during internships, that it's just a wife, that it's the real thing not to arrest them if they're proven otherwise or in the investigation process, we'll never be able to prevent it. Now by creating this board, we have very serious reviews, not independent, not pluralist, sir, no Bar Association, there are no doctors, and here are the government appointees, appointed by the President, yes, who are we to complain to when our rights are violated? But even if we do these things, if we don't internalize them, there's no way we're going to get to the point where human rights are wanted in this country. When we look at this bill in general, we clearly see that the definition of discrimination is incomplete. In this case, it has been made clear to the government's authorities during the commission talks, which cannot be passed by the Paris Principles, and cannot be achieved. Now, look, for example, this board has no authority to review court decisions, effectively enforce sanctions. Is it really going to be effective, what this board is doing? Unfortunately, we have doubts here, too. If that's not going to happen, then we'll go back to the old bowl, the old bath, you know, sir, the European Court of Human Rights, whatever it is, we'll pay for it. It'll continue to make sense. To prevent this -- it wasn't done in other laws, and it wasn't done in this case -- it's important to consider the opinion of NGOs, many of them who have actually fought on this issue, and many of them who have been sincere, and the leaders of the opinion, and to show their sincerity. First, for example, considering sexual orientation regarding exceptions -- our friends who just spoke -- need to take measures that will make the board independent and pluralist, so that this bill can achieve its desired goal. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Otherwise, I'm saying the same thing will continue. I'd like to point out that we're against it as it is. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0189par0458	Thank you, Mr. Altaca Kayışoglu.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0190par0459	Mr. President, I have a request according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0189par0460	Mr. Baluken, here, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0190par0463	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, good lawmakers, when a person loses his life, when he dies, the sentence is lifted, and any law of any kind would have lost its meaning. Our belief is that after a man dies, after he has lost his life, the right to use a pencil concerning him now belongs to God alone, the right to punish him. If anyone tortures a dying person by describing himself at a different point in this sense, he will have an inhumanity as well as a partner by replacing himself with the Great Creator, according to our belief. Today's landscapes in Hakkari Yüksekova are shameful sights that will lead to human history. As if it wasn't enough for young people who lost their lives to be torn apart and thrown in front of street animals, I'd like to say that we are openly condemning this barbaric mentality that we filmed and shared through social media. There's been a statement we've been waiting for from the governor's office all day. After his investigation of governorship, he admitted that the images belonged to Dileváva, but the problem of the governorship was that we could not identify the police who took pictures of him rather than to carry administrative or judicial responsibility for the emergence of these barbarism images and to give them a self-criticism or to employ the resignation of the people of Turkey. We're dealing with a government that claims to be a political Islamic tradition. If this government accepts these images, or any of the lawmakers who belong to this ruling party, says that I own these images that they're going to see on social media, it's going to be considered by us, of course, as the subject of a different discussion. In particular, it is my call to the ruling party and to the government: What criminal and administrative investigations will they begin about people who live these violent images, who have brought themselves to a level of brutality against the dead? This government must make it clear that the governor of Hakkari, who is in charge of this painting, should also be removed immediately, and that they are conducting a process of immediate dismissal of such violence on this land, as they have made the whole world watch it without waiting to resign. All previous crimes have been covered up by those who committed these crimes and the processes related to this crime scene. The fact that the bodies were dragged behind armored vehicles, the naked display of women's bodies, the destruction of cemetery sites, the cover-up of bombings... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0191par0471	Please complete, Mr. Baluken, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0190par0472	If, after today's discovery, the government's systemic policy, all the public, national and world public will consider it if it still demonstrates a savings that will not remove the Governor of Hakkari and the Supreme Command from office. And the AKP government will face an invoice for war crimes that have been surged in the coming period, especially because of this inhuman violence against funerals. So I'd like to call on all lawmakers and the government: if you say we don't own this painting, we can't digest this painting in our hearts, in our hearts, in our hearts, in our hearts, in our hearts, in our consciences. If you say there's no argument -- if you say we don't own this painting, then you must remove the Governor of Haqari and the Republic of Highova. It means that we will follow this process to the end, and I would like to say that I have once again condemned this example of barbarism. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0192par0475	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. The second speaker on behalf of him is Fatma Benli, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Benli. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0193par0483	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself in favor of the Bill of Human Rights and Equality in Turkey. I hereby salute the House with respect. In fact, even if we have very serious discussions, it's a special day, because we're doing a law study to protect the honor of being human, and then when we vote on it, we're all going to be able to help in reducing the discrimination done to people, because of the results and consequences of its discrimination. This is a really special day. Yes, it's true, after 2003, Turkey made many amendments to human rights, especially in order to meet the requirements of the rule of law. He corrected our penal code, our labour law, and many of the provisions in our Constitution. He signed many international contracts because the regulations in the law were insufficient. Knowing that this was not enough, he stated that international agreements on human rights in Article 90 of the Constitution are more important than the law. But we know that it's not very easy to identify the particular issue of discrimination. Even though the penal code in particular was convicted, the 122nd article, unfortunately, did not find much practice. Only three or five cases failed, and the channels that people could appeal to in case they were discriminated against, unfortunately, were too long, or too expensive, so there was no way to get results. What is now available is that those who have been subjected to any kind of violation, have been victimized by any rights, have been subjected to any discrimination directly to an institution that Turkey has established. In fact, the following law provides for the protection and development of human rights established in 2012, as well as for the creation of the law of equality institution to combat discrimination, which has made efforts to correct the conditions of the Human Rights Institution by studying and observing everywhere in prisons -- where people are being held against their will. As a matter of fact, however, even if the law were to come to us on time in the visa exemption, as of this moment, the opinion of NGOs has not been received for the last time, it's not today that the drafting of the law is a matter of any kind, even if the impression is made in a hurry. I'm very clear as someone who's spent the last six years on behalf of many NGOs fighting for amendments to the bill. Something that has been fought for both Turkey and the EC PARTY for years, the end of their labor. The Bill of the Law Against Discrimination and the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey Act have been combined and we've already come across this draft law today. Of course, it's possible to do better, but we also know that there are worse examples than us. It's up to us to make them better. In the law, outside of the existing regulations -- such as race, language, religion, sectarian discrimination -- aside from the discrimination that we face the most in our lives -- the fact that most of the forms of discrimination have been in the law, even because they're old, because they're disabled, or because they're vulnerable for other reasons, or because they're directly discriminated against this institution, or because they're treated differently, in fact, the people who are most discriminated against the law, because they're disabled, because they're disabled, or because they're disabled for other reasons, because they're in fact, they've been able to apply themselves to this institution, because they've been treated in the same situation, and because they've been treated differently, they've been in fact, they've been able to ensure that they've been able to get the same thing in the same way as they've been treated. Of course, it's possible to do better, and it's possible to talk a lot longer, but unfortunately, the lack of time keeps me from talking about it too much. But if we want to do better, especially with one person fighting discrimination, not one human victim in Turkey, if we want each of us to have the honor of being human, there's only one thing we have to do -- to get this law out and do what we can as Congress to make this law work much better. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0194par0490	Thank you, Mr. Benli. The first part of the bill is completed with talks on behalf of political party groups and individuals. Now, we're going to do a question-and-answer procedure on chapter one for 15 minutes. I'll start the questions. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0195par0495	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there's an arrangement regarding the oath of the members selected in Article 10's 11's joke. When we look at all the vows, I vow to carry out my duties in full neutrality, honesty, justice, and justice in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Isn't that a flaw? Another question: In Article 20, no tax is taken on all those who have ever been expert witnesses, even though their wages are taxed. So the citizen takes a glass of water, pays indirect tax. Why are these experts exempt from this tax? Article 20 (2) of the last sentence. We're coming to Article 21, about the burden of evidence. You're saying there's a strong sign of a violation of rights. In the penal code, we call it reasonable doubt, why don't we bring in a sign here? Why are we making these conditions more difficult? I mean, the basic rights and freedoms here...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0196par0500	Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0197par0501	Have we received an opinion from our universities, our professors, or civil rights organizations in human rights? Is the law you want to do to increase discrimination in existing sects in the country? Since half the country is men and women, will it be legal for half our members to become women, to form members from young people and women? Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0198par0505	Mr. Saribal...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0199par0506	Thank you, Mr. President. There are 11 members of the Human Rights Council; 8 of them will be appointed by the Council of Ministers and 3 of them by the President. I wonder if there is such a board in another country, in the process of the European Union that we want to integrate into. Two: What will be the qualifications of 11 of these boards, and who will they be, for example, women candidates, who will be disabled? Three: In fact, my friend just told me that when such a committee was formed in Europe or when such a structure was formed, it was taken into consideration from the whole of NGOs, democratic mass organisations, academic rooms, professional rooms. What institutions were informed of the creation of this board? We'd like to hear that, too. Even if all these statements were made and this board came out, would it be accepted in the European Union if we put this board on top of its application? We're waiting for explanations about this. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0200par0512	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0201par0513	Thank you, Mr. President. ON Saturday (March 26th), a person called Atilla Olçum, the Vice President of Education, said that the Kemalist spirit, which has been in particular in the field of education of this country for nearly a hundred years, has seriously cleansed Kemalist ideology from our curriculum and internalized the values of civilization, should be the largest civil society agency in this country. May I remind you that the person's words violate the provisions of Article 42 of the Constitution. Do you intend to perform a procedure on this person, based on these explanations? Isn't it discrimination if you're not going to perform a criminal procedure?
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0200par0515	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0202par0516	Thank you, Mr. President. Do you think that the law that we are now discussing at the time of human rights violations and many problems in our country will actually contribute to solving these problems? Will you make any effort to show the importance of considering these events? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0203par0519	Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0204par0520	I'd like to ask you, a fair trial is a human right. At the same time, a fair trial orders an open trial. In this sense, isn't it obvious that in the cases of Gul and Can (the consuls) should have followed this case and been described as a violation of the law by the President and the Minister of Justice? Isn't that also an attitude that tries to block the reputation of hearings? Because, along with the consuls, both HDP and CHP MPs have been charged with attending these proceedings. How do they judge this violation of rights and the illegal statements themselves? I ask that this be answered. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0203par0522	Mr. Dogan...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0205par0523	Mr. Minister, again, the SES business representative Mahmut Bakay has been suspended for calling for peace, as Turkish Medical Association's Central Council member Dr. Fatih Durinkök called for peace at İzmir Tepecik Education and Research Hospital. This operation must be cancelled which is not in order. I present to the Minister.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0203par0524	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0206par0525	Minister, what would you do if you had to fight a Syrian child on the TRT Documentary channel of our state? I'd blow myself up at the boy's checkpoint. Do you think your government is right to respond and publish such a publication? Given the editorial principles of this publication, will you do a criminal procedure on the institution? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0203par0527	Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0207par0528	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, have you asked the relevant ministry a few times today about the brutality of these funerals we've discussed at the General Assembly? Is there any investigation process that the relevant ministry has opened? Do you intend to dismiss the Governor of Hakkari and the Governor of Highova? We'd like to know the sincerity of the funeral's right to burial, the sincerity of an understanding that doesn't respect the right to hand over the dead to the family, to make a legal arrangement for human rights. I'd like you to answer that with these particular questions. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0208par0531	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0209par0532	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the current bill will continue to operate on human rights boards in the provinces and districts until a new regulation is made by the Prime Minister. And what do you intend to do in the future, remove the human rights boards in these provinces and counties and replace them with? In the same way, Kurula will be graduated from school for at least four years. I mean, doesn't the fact that no one here specializes in human rights doesn't mean it's not taken seriously? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0210par0536	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Our time for questions is over. I promise the government answers. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0211par0540	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear friends, while we first prepared this bill, we conducted the Paris Principles, the First, the International Conventions, the European Union directives, and each of the details of all the work that was done before, especially with civil society agencies in the fight against discrimination and human rights. We also did another study: what kind of structure there is in the European Union about human rights, discrimination and national prevention mechanisms, how and how these structures work, we have reviewed them one by one, and as a result, we have seen that things that are especially separate from the human rights institution, which is set apart are being eliminated in the form of separate structures such as the decriminalization institution, the national prevention mechanism. Examples of this, as in England, as in the Netherlands, as in France, we have moved to create an institution in both the field of national prevention and the fight against discrimination. We think it's going to be much more efficient, much more efficient. Again, one of the important things that is often mentioned here is that the structure of the board that we now form, yes, the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister or President, but is there such an application in any other European country? Such an application is out of the question. There have been explanations. And let me make it very clear from here that all of the countries within the European Union, except for a few countries, are being appointed by the government or by the concerned head of state or by the concerned minister. I'd like to give you a few examples: Belgium, the Council of Ministers appoints; Denmark, Minister of Labor; I move on; Austria, Federal government appoints; Sweden, again being appointed by the government; the Netherlands is being appointed by the Federal Government on the advice of the Minister of Justice; Germany is being appointed by the Ministry of Women and Equality; it is being appointed by the Ministry of Equality; it is being appointed by the French President of France; it is being appointed by the Minister of Social Affairs; it is being appointed by the Minister of Social Affairs. When we look at countries like this, we see that these appointments are being made by the government. What the European Union specifically means here is that it is functional independence, which is that when this institution is established, the institution can continue functionally independent. When we look at the law in this framework, the creation of the board in a pluralistic structure is specifically mentioned. And by that pluralism, of course, it's important that it's in a structure that covers different parts of society. The issue of the fight against discrimination, yes, is a subject mentioned in our Turkish Penal Code, in our Constitution, but Turkey is the first institution to form discrimination. If people's thoughts, emotions, color, language, race, religion, whatever they think, they're going to be discriminated against, they're going to intervene. When you compare our bill to the European Union's proposals by countries that are even members of the Council of Europe, it will really be seen to be a much stronger structure than the European countries' plans. I want to emphasize this in particular, and I want to highlight this in particular. A really powerful structure is being created, and the system will work as a mechanism for human rights and national prevention while dealing with discrimination on one hand. The Human Rights Agency is authorized to review the resin. On the other hand, within the framework of the national prevention mechanism, there is, again, the authority to examine the resen. In terms of combating discrimination, personal applications can be received, and they will have the authority to conduct a resuscitation. So it is possible to say that this institution will really have a very powerful structure compared to its examples in Europe. On the other hand, she's being asked if she's been assigned. Of course, we'd like to have a female member on this board, and the fact that she's in a pluralistic structure, frankly, means that in a way. On the other hand, dear friends, it is asked whether this law will contribute. Of course, this law will contribute greatly. For the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey, an institution is being formed to fight discrimination. So I think this law will contribute substantially. On the other hand, again, there were some very specific questions about terrorism, human rights. There were some questions about Izmir (Izmir). As far as I'm concerned, dear friends, everyone is equal to the law. If anyone's doing anything wrong, no matter who it is, they must pay for it, pay for it in front of the law, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0212par0553	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0213par0554	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0212par0555	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0213par0556	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister said: "This sort of board in France chooses the Minister of Labor." I mean, they can either correct me themselves or the information given may be wrong. I have a master's thesis, Fatih Aydın, thesis advisor Prof. Dr. Ethem Atay. He's giving the Danish example here, Mr. Secretary. In Denmark, members of such boards are appointed by the Human Rights Council, not the Minister of Labor. So either this thesis is wrong or the information they gave you is wrong. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0214par0559	Let me put it this way...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0215par0560	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0214par0561	Excuse me for a second.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0215par0562	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0214par0563	I don't know if there's been a slip of the tongue, but what I'm reading here is that the President of the Defense of Rights is appointed by the President of the Union of France. I can give you details about that, of course.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0215par0564	Mr. Special, I believe you have a request. Here, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0216par0566	Mr. President, thank you. There are two things we see here that are important. In the previous Law on Protection of Personal Data, Mr. Minister acted on a similar information note, and then the public came to light with: Yes, we call the Minister of Labor in Denmark, Austria, Federal Government in Austria, but for Turkey, let's say that we accept the appointment of the President of all of them, and write as follows: I am not going to appoint one of the people who has been accepted with so many members of these countries, whose work has been so many years, with institutions, universities, lawyers, lawyers, or professions, or people who have been reported about it, of course, and I am not going to appoint one of them. He can appoint a prime minister, he can appoint a president, he can appoint a concerned minister, as long as we describe the quality correctly. There's something wrong there, we're looking for a cure. Another issue: Mr. Minister did not draw attention to it or otherwise describe it, but Article 8 is described in Article 8 as being associated with the Prime Minister's Office of Human Rights and Equality in Turkey. Mr. Secretary also knows that these associated institutions are subject to administrative and financial control by the Prime Minister at the time of the request of the relevant legislation. Which means administrative and financial custody. Such, as you describe, independence is already in distress here on its own. And if the last statement the Minister used was a slip, it'd better be corrected immediately. In fact, Adeta said, "We also want a female member to be involved. " If this is going to be a nine, we predict at least four or five women. But if a woman is not a slip of language, then... it's not surprising, it's not surprising that you think it's enough to be corrected by the Minister.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0217par0570	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0218par0571	Mr. President, on the same subject...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0219par0572	If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0217par0573	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0219par0574	Thank you very much, Mr. Special. That's not exactly what I meant, I'm saying it to female members. Of course, I'd like to have more female members than even male members, so let me express that in particular. If there was a slip of the tongue, I apologize to him, too. Now, dear friends, first of all, the thesis that Mr. Tanal put forth just now is a thesis that was written in 2010, and I'm telling you the information my friends gave me. The structure of this institution has been changed in 2011. Again, I share this information with you based on the information our friends have given me. Now, I want to make it very clear that if you look at the existing laws of the European Union member states, you'll understand much better how much we care about this institution that we really created. There are countries that have only seven or eight members, and in these European countries, especially in recent years, the attacks on racism have increased heavily, and there are serious problems with discrimination in these countries. At times, it is stated that the position of Turkey and the position of the European Union are different. (I repeat here - functional independence is the functional independence of this institution. And I want to express that the relational institution -- in our state mechanism, with the institutions of the state, again, has the weakest relationship with the government. Therefore, it is predicted here as a related organisation. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0220par0579	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ironel, I'll turn on your microphone. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0221par0582	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't think the Minister's tongue is a slip of mind. It seems to be a good sign if there are even one of the 11 women to be created. He made a statement that meant something. It would appear that all the members the president will elect will be men. This, however, is the greatest example of human rights violation, the greatest example of discrimination. In a country where men and women are equal, unfortunately, we can't achieve that equality anywhere, so even on the commission, we're talking about a country where we've reached a level of equality. Examples were given from other countries. How many men and women are there? We'd like to know how they are, of course, and we'd like to look at the details of them. We also think that how the control mechanism is provided should be expressed at the same time. And we also know that discrimination is extreme in Turkey, so discrimination on the mindset, discrimination between parties... I'm just going to give you an example of the government's discrimination between parties that we've expressed over and over again in this General Assembly. Mr. Secretary, we're very curious to know how he'll respond to this. As all parties related to going to prisons meet their demands, our demands say that the HDP Group does not have a positive or negative response to their demands and thus does not freely permit them. Lawmakers from another party can go to the meeting for the same prisoner, but no member of the HDP Group can go to the same prison for the same person. So, in fact, this is the only example that we've seen, once again, of a segregation between parties, and of interspecies discrimination by the government. I mean, now that we're talking about a country called religion, language, race, all gender equality, this belief we're talking about, language, culture and religion, we're seeing all kinds of discrimination in this country. ▪ We will correct all aspects of human rights, we will carry out the arrangement for human rights. I want to say once again that it's really absurd here. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0222par0586	Thank you, Mr. Demirel, it's in the transcripts. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0223par0588	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0224par0589	Mr. President, a quick word.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0222par0590	One moment, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0225par0592	I asked the minister a question about the TRT documentary, and I didn't get the answer, but I can remind him again.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0222par0593	Now, lawmakers, the question-answer on chapter one is limited to 15 minutes according to our Civil Code. The first half of a 15-minute period is reserved for questions, the second half for answers. After this happens, there is no way that we can have a re-interview as a question-and-answer. Mr. Group Vice Presidents can, of course, demand a word. Their demands have been written down. Now, in this frame, Mr. Secretary requests an explanation. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0226par0596	Mr. President, thank you very much. First of all, I'm not in the habit of reading people's minds. I'd always rather listen to people's true thoughts, feelings, and take steps to solve the problem in that frame. But if you take an approach to reading people's minds, you'll upset us. We have to believe in each other's sincerity here. See, as the talks on this bill continued, we held a meeting where we had about two or three hours of HDP MPs in the back, along with our friends from CHP, MPHP. We've discussed everything, we've discussed everything. But I think it's very wrong to try to read people's minds or to refer to us as what you think you're thinking. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit08spe0227par0600	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Talks on chapter one are complete. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-03-29sit09spe0227par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the tenth session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 149. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Law Bill and the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission Report, which ranked 2nd in the Turkish Business Institution Law, number 170. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission will not be found after this, the decision is made to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of Wednesday (March 30, 2016). I'm closing the meeting at 00, so I'll say good night.
