tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsibility statement is from Batman MP Mehmet Ali Aslan, who asked for a statement regarding the construction of the wall of shame in Berlin. Here you go, Mr. Lion.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, I salute Mr. Court and the General Assembly. Some fifty-five years ago, in Germany, to prevent East German citizens from crossing into West Germany, a wall of shame, called the Berlin wall, was built, of course, raised. Now, this Berlin wall of shame, as a matter of fact, the reason that I've been working off the agenda, is maybe it'll be a question mark in the minds of a lot of people, but when we start talking about it, when we start talking about it, when you compare it a little bit, it's going to look like it's actually something that needs to be processed. Of course, when the Berlin wall of shame was built, the wall was painted white to prevent passage from East Germany to West Germany, so that it could be noticed immediately. Currently, unfortunately, fifty-five years later, Germany built this wall in 1961, but fifty-five years later, a wall of shame is being built between Turkey and Syria that will not allow it to search the wall in Nusaybin, Cizre, Turkey and Syria. Just as mines were once laid, and then the error of that was accepted and the path was to clear mines, the border between Turkey and Syria is now building walls, which are a greater shame, and I assure you, as mines are being wiped out, these walls will fall down one day at a time. Because you can't separate people from mines, fences, concrete walls. One day the people will tear down and tear down the wall, as they did in Berlin, and then those pieces will be left with concrete stones and particles. Of course, it's more serious, unfortunately, not only to the border, but to the outposts in the cities that exist in the region, the same walls are built. So at the outposts east of Turkey, soldiers and police are trapped inside the police station, unable to get out of these concrete walls. Those who apply this policy may enter one day and remain inside that outpost. And secondly, as a normal citizen, I wonder what they'll think if they walk past those concrete walls. In this sense, the public is looking at the walls, and the security forces within the walls are suspiciously approaching the public. Israel has built a 200 - mile concrete wall since 2002 to sever ties with Palestine, to prevent crossings from Palestine. Let's not take these bad examples. What Israel did to Palestine, what East Germany did to West Germany, what America did to Mexico, and how many backward African countries built against one another. It's the walls in our minds, in our brains, in our perception that need to be destroyed. These walls are a sign that the walls in our minds, in our brains, are not falling. If it's okay with us to look at each other, against the people, against neighboring peoples and neighboring countries, certainly these walls of shame would not be built. So if we can recreate this brotherhood, peace, the negotiating table, if we can run it, those walls will never be necessary. Instead of those walls, the trees must be planted and we must tear down all those walls together in the festivals of brotherhood. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0003par0018	Thank you. The second off-the-book statement is from Hatay MP Hilmi Yabırıcı, who asked for a comment on the coup attempt and what had happened on July 15, 2016. Here you go, Mr. Maker. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Congressmans, there's a buzzing in the hall, so I'd like you to show some sensitivity.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0004par0024	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the coup attempt that was defeated on the evening of July 15th, created a wide area of reconciliation around the consciousness of democracy. After years of polarizing and aberration policies of power, this compromise environment is important and rewarding in the way that society allows it to breathe comfortably. Unfortunately, right after the coup attempt, Mr. President's statement to the Travel Park that the Gunnery Barracks would be held at any cost, and keeping the People's Democratic Party out of the middle of this settlement has shown that we are far from a total social consensus. However, the polarizing language used to create a historical opportunity to solve the Kurdish problem has caused this historic opportunity to slip between our hands. It has to be seen that the elimination of civilian politics is not lacking in blood and tears, but it strengthens a climate where social peace is breaking down day by day. Those who claim to be a democracy today should listen to their mothers on Saturday, who have been searching for their children for 594 weeks. He must answer the question of the whereabouts of Hursit Külter, who has not been heard from for 81 days. Let it not be forgotten that if you can't quench the tears of mothers, you can't create peace and brotherhood. Today, fighting the ring of betrayal is turning into a liquidation opportunism for the opposition. This weakens the ground of reconciliation created. In addition, it hurts both our sense of justice and our conscience to be easily exonerated by those who have contributed to the flourishing and flourishing of this unclean structure. If the politicians who have been sentenced not to attend the hearing have been able to sit in the same seats because of their criticism of Fethullah Gülen. If the mayors, the bureaucrats who followed Ankara to the Parsel community, were able to protect their authorities, we did not give them what they wanted. If they were able to sit in the position of Prime Minister President, then the ministers of the congregation are standing in their place and God will forgive them. It is not possible to speak of justice if they are free of responsibility. We will not remain silent to those responsible for the growth of this ruthless organization, who have turned the coup attempt into an opportunity to intimidate the opponents. The country's intellectuals, artists, progressives, patriots have always been the carriers of the struggle for democracy. You can see this in the tradition of resistance, each one a heroic epic, from protests against the 6th Fleet with the awareness of not surrendering to persecution. A witch hunt has begun against intellectuals, academics and artists under the image of combating the structure. In recent days, it is not believable that artists who have come forward with their opposing identities have been suspended from office on charges of ▪ they have been associated with this terrorist organization. My friend, the artist who spent his life fighting against the coup d'état of September 12th, who hasn't been returned for thirty-six years, if you try to create a coupger from my brother Ragıp Yavuz, you won't succeed. Maybe you can convince your followers, but you can't fool the forwardists, the Democrats, the patriots, the intellectuals and the socialists. If you are concerned about the security of the game played by our world-wide theatre artist Genco Erkal, if you are banning memorial events of the Suruç massacre, it is clear that your goal is to strengthen your own dictatorship rather than democracy. Again, if you're trying to intimidate our other artist Selima, because he doesn't think like you, by exposing her through social media, by canceling her concerts through the municipalities you have, as you did yesterday, you will only expose your sense of democracy. Free the art. Art is a uniter, art is an enlightenment. Art is sadness, joy, happiness, love, peace, brotherhood; in short, man, nature, and life itself. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Once again, I call to power: Fear not art and artist; fear not art and artistry. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0005par0034	Thank you, Your Creator. The third out-of-date statement, July 15, 2016 coup attempt, belongs to İstanbul MP Ravza Karakcı Kan. Here you go, Mr. Crowder Blood.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0006par0039	Thank you. Mr. President, on the night of July 15th, we had a public nightmare. Some of the traitors, who were wearing the glorious uniform of the Prophet's furnace, attacked our elected President, our Parliament, all our citizens, without distinction, in a cowardly, arrogant attempt to betray them. With the invitations of our President, with the support of our Prime Minister and his fellow opposition leaders, our people have taken to the streets with their lives, with their old men and their young men, their women and their men, their children, and our nation's will has defeated the power of tanks, with our 240 glorious martyrs, our people have opened a new chapter in the history of the world, redefining the concept of the struggle for democracy. Among the most prominent in this struggle, we had women, strong women from tanks, no doubt as in our Battle of Salvation. The Malatian housewife was with her family on her way to the 52-year-old Turkmen Tekin Ataturk Airport, where she became a martyr. She was 44 years old, and four children's mothers, Ayqar, died while she and her wife went to the Bridge of Martyrs on the 15th of July. The 51-year-old Greenwater also drank her testimony on the bridge. The 39-year-old Vahide Ezençelioğlu was severely injured by the tank. More than that, our veterans, our brave women, Safija Bayat, Ayten Demir, Nebahat Topaloğlu, Jale Master, Sheriffe Boz, Fikriye Basin, fought with their lives for our country, for our democracy, and, of course, our Veterans of the Veterans of the Veterans. Our female paralegals were the first to arrive, and they were able to broadcast live what was happening to the entire world. Thanks to them, we were able to keep a close eye on the ugly attack on our nation's headquarters, showing the world that bombs mean nothing to our will. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have given us a message on the night of July 15th, with their struggle with their lives, with their 27 nights of democracy, with our rallies in Yenikapi, and in our 80 provinces outside Istanbul. They gathered together with their Kurdish and Turkish, with Alevi and Sunni, with their Muslim and his Jewish and Christian, and with their younger and older, and taught them a lesson of unity and unity, and gave them both to the world and to us. So we -- and our speaker just mentioned -- we need to read this unity message. We, the representatives of these glorious people, must continue to do our part. If we can't read the message of these glorious people, they won't forgive us, and God won't forgive us. July 15th, in the hope that our spirit of unity and unity will last forever, I thank all our strong women from tanks, men and women, all our martyrs, to all our families and veterans, especially our martyr mothers. Finally, I'd like to finish by reading the names of our registered female martyrs. Our civilian casualties: Martyr Yıldız Gürsoy, Martyr Türkmen Tekin, Martyr Ayşe Ayç, Martyr Love Yeşilyurt. The women of the police forces are our martyrs: Paradise Hero, Martyr Demet Sezen, Martyr Gülşah Güler, Martyr Kübra Doğanay, Martyr Seher Yasar, Martyr Sevda Güngör, Marty Zeynep, Deaf. May my Lord grant them their intercession. We know our martyrs are among us. Hopefully, on this new page, we will continue to display these images of Turkey's longing in unity. I'm so excited in front of our martyrs that my hands -- not normally -- are shaking. As lawmakers, we have to give it our due. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0007par0048	Thank you. Once again, we pray for God's mercy on our martyrs of democracy. Congressmans, I will now promise 15 members of parliament who have entered the system to their place for a moment. Mr. Gürer, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Tunç, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Kayışoğlu, Mr. Dursuoğlu, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Durmaz, Mr. Kayan, Mr. Yigit, Mr. Aksu and Mr. Karaburun. Mr. Gürer, we'll start with you. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0008par0058	Mr. President, there are 277,466 potato crops in the district of Niğde. According to TÜİK data, the province of Niğde was first in production of 674,773 tonnes of potatoes last year, but over 1 million tonnes of non-registered potato products grow in Niğde. This week, in Niğde, I met with our farmers at Altunhisar, Altunhisar, Altahhan, Tyrhan, Hasaköy, Lakecuk, Orhanlı, Edikli, Konaklı. Unfortunately, the merchant didn't buy the summer crop this year, so much of the crop remained in the field. Currently, between 40 and 50 cents of potatoes, unfortunately, finds no buyers for 10 or 15 cents. At this point, I'm calling on our Ministry of Agriculture: the manufacturer has suffered a lot of casualties in the last year because of the decay of nearly 200,000 tons of potatoes. If the summer product has this problem this year, a similar situation in the winter's stockpile will result in great losses, and migrations from village to town continue. It's urgent to plan in that sense. There are complaints about potato products in other areas. It better be a domestic sale first-hand. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0009par0062	Thank you, Mr. Gürer. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0010par0065	Mr. President, good lawmakers, as you know, on Sunday (August 14th), we celebrated the 15th anniversary of our Justice and Development Party. This fifteen years is a success story that will lead both to our democracy and to the history of the world's politics. In this case, rising on the shoulders of our founder, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, he is open to light, closed to darkness. We said, "No stopping, keep going." THE AK PARTY is a thousand four hundred years of justice and kindness that has embraced the philosophy that nothing has ever been the same since the day the national and native thought met politics and was founded. The AK PARTY has never compromised from 27 April to closing the party, from 17 December to 15 July in many states from 17 December to 15 July. I can't even be the leader of the people's first elected President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, to all the members of my party, to whom I'm proud to be a member of my leadership of the Youth Corps, to the presidents of the polls, to the presidents of our neighborhood, to our women and youth arm, to all my brothers who have worked from local governments to our main level, to the afterlife.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0011par0070	Thank you. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0012par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. In 2007-2013, the parallel judiciary and all constitutional institutions have been leaked to Å and the institutions of the state have been distrusted. It has been deciphered by the efforts of our government, which has infiltrated the TSK, where members of the Sledgehammer and Ergenekon schemed to take control in TSK. The European Court of Human Rights adopted all kinds of applications in the 1990s, while refusing complaints about the coup-like sledgehammer and Ergenekon plots. Friends and allies have found that Europe, as we know it, has surrendered not only as states, but as international institutions, such as the European Court of Human Rights. I salute the High Assembly, saying that the AIHM, who called the parallel trials of the traitor, seeking to take over the state, would rule out his biased decisions on the trial of the coup attempt.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0011par0075	Thank you. Mr. Bronze...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0013par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. On Saturday (August 13th), the flood in Bartin's district caused massive financial damage. Our 164 citizens, trapped in the flood, have been saved with great zeal, and it has been our consolation that there is no loss of life. The work continues to open the road to Kurucashile-Cide, which is blocked by the collapse of bridges and landslides. In our villages in the districts of Amasra and Kurucashile, more than 600 people have been damaged in their homes and businesses, farmlands, private vehicles, fishing boats, bridges and vents, roads, residential walls, infrastructure facilities, electricity and communications systems. I'd like to point out that our government is mobilising all of its institutions to repair the damage and damage. I thank all those who seek help, and give my condolences to all my fellow citizens who have been subjected to disaster.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0011par0080	Thank you. And we offer our condolences to Bart's people as the Court. Your Grace, please.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0014par0087	After the July 15 fascist initiative, the state staff received years of unsubstantiated purchases of points that require savings. While we should be able to understand how important truth is in this matter, there have been serious concerns and doubts that there are still inefficiency purchases here. As such, Parliament must quickly ensure a political union that will ensure the integrity of the state's staff. While we should be developing this in interviews with a video recording system and similar debates, untested purchases worry everyone. We're making our warnings here because we're concerned that new cults and congregation formations can uncover new cases of deception. We think we need to take a step forward on this. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0011par0089	Thank you. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0015par0092	Thank you. First: Our disabled citizens eagerly await the results of the ECPS, wondering when the results of the ECPS will be announced. There's a clear and precise request on this matter as soon as possible. Second: The black fig called Bursa, the black fig, began to rot at the bottom because of the incompetence of power, and the fig maker is desperate for a solution for exports, and they can't reach the Minister of Agriculture, who is also from Bursa. Third: The mentality, which did not like the Republic and saw it as between advertising, has not been able to sell the institutions for 14 years. You're still selling these institutions today. We want everyone to know that we will stand firm against this coup against the Republic. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0016par0097	Thank you. Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0017par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. Happy is the fifteenth anniversary of our EC PARTY, where our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan began his political life as the founding president on 14 August 2001, to all other nations that connect our nation and our nation with hope. After this, nothing will ever be the same again. This blessed trial, which was called "the 15th year of July," faced the betrayal of the terrorist organization and showed the world that nothing really was the same. The AK PARTY has not embarrassed millions of people who trust in it, standing up to its will, as it was before, against all betrayals. Basically, the AK PARTY, a movement of virtues that emerged from the heart of Anatolia, has now become a political organization that has crossed the borders of the country and is the hope of all the oppressed in the world. The AK PARTY, which meets the state and the nation, is building the future of our children through its actions that have inherited Turkey's legacy. No one has any doubt that we will work our best to overcome all obstacles, including and outside, that will come our way. May our path and our fortune be blessed. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0018par0104	Thank you. Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0019par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. Seventeen years ago, 17 thousand people were killed, hundreds of thousands injured and homeless, lost their lives in the August 17, 1999 earthquake, which registered as central base Izmit Lakecuk. During the seventeen years we prayed that God would never cause such pain again, we see that there was little progress in preparing for a potential violent earthquake, and the earthquake was not faced. The urban transformation, which is balsamic to languages, has, unfortunately, given birth to new hubs in the urban area by people who use the earthquake as a tool. In order for the same suffering not to happen again, the medium damaged buildings, where many of our citizens are doomed to live, must be strengthened immediately. We've lost hundreds of thousands of people. Instead of saying, "The earthquake didn't beat us, we're used to living by the earthquake. We need to take concrete steps quickly to say it. With these thoughts and feelings, I cherish the loss of our people in the August 17th Lake earthquake, and ask patience for the remaining families.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0020par0111	Thank you. Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0021par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. Today the festivals of Hajibektas began in Hadji Bektaş. Today he would have wanted Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President, to participate in the festivals of Hajji Bektas, where peace and brotherhood, democracy, human rights, and law could be carried out, but it didn't. In the coming days, the third bridge, the bridge of Yavuz Sultan Selim, will be opened. Now's the time. We demand to be named after that bridge after peace, brotherhood, friendship, human rights, secularism and democracy, and I know it is a duty to say it once again from here. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0022par0117	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0023par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, Haci Bektas Veli is remembered. I think the best way to remember our great value is to understand and explain it. Haci Bektas honors Veli, and I remind you of a few of his precious words to shed light on us today: Let us be one, let us be big, let us be alive. The end of the road that does not go from knowledge is dark. Remember that even your enemy is human. You have studied women. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0024par0123	Thank you. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0025par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. Following the rulings on the rule of law adopted after July 15th, as it is known, the main problem is in education, and military upper secondary schools are at the head of those problems. We often receive calls from students studying at the Lighting Military High School in Bursa, my constituency, and at the Tower Military High School in İstanbul. The ministry announced that students in these upper secondary schools will be studying at Anadolu or science schools. However, the administrators of these schools do not accept and resist these children. Many of the families are depressed and anxious. I'm just saying that the Ministry needs to take a concrete step in this matter, help the families take care of their concerns, and get these kids out of their way. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0026par0129	Thank you, too. Mr. Durmaz...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0027par0132	The Tokat is a province in the Ottoman and Seljuklu period, and later in the republic, where nearly 40 art of craft is run by the state or individual. However, those who maintain these crafts that bring our past into our future are in an economic difficulty. The development of these art students needs to be done immediately, with government-issue incentives, design and innovation, and so on, so that they can be manipulated by producing high-inclusion products. I believe that in various provinces of Turkey, such as Tokat, it would contribute to the development of these crafts if the foundation's workplaces were assigned to the people who perform this art to find the value of this art. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0026par0134	Thank you, too. Mr. Kayan...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0028par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. In every part of the 40s, the energy lines are expired. Therefore, there are constant blackouts. Industrial companies are unable to fulfill their commitments due to the cuts, and because of the failures in agricultural irrigation, products are not met with water supply, they dry in the field, they cause poor efficiency. Our animal manufacturers are in great difficulty. He can't feed on time, he can't milk on time. Since milk is not being refrigerated, bacteria form and threaten human health. The two-year-old regeneration of the line doesn't stop because of lack of funding. When will this agony end?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0029par0140	Mr. Hero...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0030par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. As you all know and many of the AKP's people have confessed, until three years ago, the way to dominate was through the government official, police, prosecutor. Today, we are hearing reports that the way to enter the state, to become a public servant, is done through other congregations and sects. On the one hand you're going to say, "right, law, justice, righteousness." On the other hand, you're going to open the way for the same mentality. If that's the case, then we've never learned from it, and as long as this mentality, this understanding continues, there will be threats and dangers to our country, our democracy, our secular republic. The government calls on you to be sensitive about this, thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0031par0145	Thank you. Mr. Aksu...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0032par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. On the night of 13 August, PKK militants in the Canary, Cumhuriyet and Paradise districts of Küçükçekmece district of İstanbul had torched and destroyed dozens of vehicles owned by the sweat of our citizens. Arsons were involved last night. In these neighborhoods, especially the canary, PKK's acts of harassment, threats, injury and killing have been going on for years. As we have warned, once again, security forces must take effective measures without delay to ensure the safety of our citizens who live or have a business here. For Istanbul's peace of mind, the fight against the separatist terrorist organization Kurdistan has to be continued. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0033par0153	Thank you. Mr. Karaburun...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0034par0156	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the 15th of July, have brought a black mark on our history as well as a result of our nation's rebirth. Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan will be led by his example of strength and glory for generations. As representatives of the nation, it is our duty to make sure that the people answer to the people's conscience, whose blood and intentions are inhuman. This is the debt of all our necks, and every citizen must work for it. The last 14th of August was the anniversary of our party, our pupil, our beautiful story to the next generation, and our white trial, which is the conscience of the nation. On this occasion, I celebrate today, a new generation for Turkey, and thank you to all who have done their best, especially our leader, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. I would also like to thank Reza Kayaalp, our wrestler, who has made us proud as Olympic runners these days, on behalf of our nation. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0035par0159	Thank you. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who have entered the system. The first word is Mr. Demirel. Here you go, Mr. Ironel. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0036par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. The extraordinary situation and the ruling of the court after the coup attempt on July 15th should be dealt with by the coup d'états, but unfortunately, throughout Turkey, mainly Kurdish provinces, but in many parts of Turkey, all HDP components, parties, our executives, our party co-chairs, and our mayors, have been given a very intensive detention and arrest fair. This is never an acceptable situation. Let's make it very clear that, together with extraordinary circumstances, there are arbitrary practices of prosecutors and police officials, due to the extension and 30 days of detention that have been extended to 30 days. I'd like to give you a few examples of this: recently, especially in the last week, there have been more than 150 detentions in Diyarbakır, and we've mentioned here before, for the past 22 days today, that the voters of Erzurum Karayaş are still in custody and there are no talks with their attorneys for five days, and even now we still have time, no matter what, we're in a hurry. So, let's make it very clear that while the coupgers are being held in different places, politicians are being kept in a closed gym, far from hygiene -- very severely tortured. Now, Mr. President, these are very important matters. Now, are we fighting the coup, or are we fighting the coupgers, or are we fighting democracy, freedom...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0037par0168	I'll give you one more minute, Mr. Ager Demirel, complete.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0036par0169	...we're rounding up all the elected officials under the name of witch hunt and taking them into custody? So far, nearly 800 politicians have been taken into custody. So just yesterday, our co-chairs of Idil, Kulp, were taken into custody. Likewise, our Tigris Co-Chairs have been in custody for 22 days, and in this custody, the beating, torture, home invasions have been getting worse and worse. So Ankara, Aydın, Istanbul, in many places, these detentions have become more than they can afford. So we can say that they are actually fighting the HDP, the DBP executives under the name of the government and the government. In the same way, there's a decision that's reached Diyarbakır right now, even the press statements that are our democratic rights are prohibited... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...Van. Vakeza, too. Now, these situations are never acceptable. Again, there is a great deal of pressure on journalists, and with the information we have just received, Özgür Gündem newspaper has been shut down. So these pressures are an attack by persecution, violence, and fascism, which is actually an attack against the unthinking opposition to power itself. I want to express here that we never agreed to this. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0038par0174	Thank you, too. Mr. Demirel, I'd like to point out that you've made a definition of the Kurdish provinces, which is not true, but I see it as a segregation language. We have 81 provinces within the Republic of Turkey, all of which are the provinces of the Republic of Turkey, the provinces of all of us. I wanted to make that clear and put it on the record. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0039par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. As the National Movement Party Group, we strongly reject such expressions, such as the Kurd provinces, the provinces of I don't know, and we find them unacceptable; this habit should also be abandoned. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers are being fought by the State of Emergency, the law-ordered decrees as part of the fight against the NGO and the structures of the terrorist organization in public institutions and civil society. The fight against ▪ also includes arrangements that go beyond the period of the State of Emergency. Closing military schools is one of those arrangements. The fight against ▪ is a mandatory and supportive process. It is imperative that all public institutions, especially the Turkish Armed Forces, be cleaned up immediately, but it is not possible to accept closing military schools as an instrument in this struggle. There are a lot of people in the judiciary. Hundreds of judges and prosecutors have been suspended, detained, and the more wrong it is to close law schools because some coupkers have infiltrated, the more dysfunctional it is to close military schools in the fight against coup and terrorism. The problem is not in schools, the problem is in the mind, the way it works, and the problem is a management problem. It's not the existence of military schools, it's the mentality, it's the intelligence, it's the understanding, it's the driver's license, it's the integrity, it's the law and it's the law and it's not about shutting down institutions and military schools. A new and objective test method must be developed in recruiting students to military schools. The problem isn't the existence of institutions, it's the facts and events.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0040par0188	Complete, please. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0039par0189	Thank you, Mr. President. The facts need to be moved. Diagnostics and treatment should be based on this, and the configuration of institutions should be discussed in this framework. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0041par0192	Thank you, too, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0042par0195	Thank you. Mr. President, lawmakers, the political institution seems to have learned in part from the attempt on July 15th, but we see that the bureaucracy does not learn more than July 15th, and we often witness various practices. Mr. President, lawmakers, national will doesn't just mean Mr. President and the current government. The address of national will is the only centre and source of Turkey's Grand National Assembly and 550 members of parliament that form it. On August 5th, in Pozanti district of Adana province, in the celebration of the arrival of Ataturk. I demand that this government kick his ass. It is a distinction based on party badges based on the MPs of no governor or governor who form Parliament, and there is no limit to respect or disrespect in this framework. It's just a lot of busy work, a cheap lackey, or maybe it's an act of flattery to avoid being associated with a criminal organization.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0043par0200	Complete, please, Mr. Altay. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0042par0202	I stress carefully that the government has put this harsh and unsavory creamer on the line, and that from now on, we will not only be members of our party, but we will be strict and strict followers of these harsh, disrespectful attitudes made by bureaucrats towards lawmakers of all opposition parties. I demand an explanation from the government. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0043par0204	Thank you. Mr. Incescuz, here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0044par0207	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, as I began my words... yesterday in Diyarbakır, the PKK and its extensions did not fail to shed blood again. They staged an attack with a truckload of bombs against police officers who served as traffic controllers. I ask God's mercy to our citizens who drink the sherbet of this treacherous act. Again, on Saturday, our brother Naci Adıyaman, president of the Şırnak Beytüşşebap County Youth Corps, was also killed by treacherous PKK attacks. I offer God's mercy to our brother, and my condolences to his relatives, and my condolences to all our organizations and our country. The upper mind is the same, whether it's called the PKK or the DEA, or other terrorist organizations, all of which are the same; it's all about the unity and unity of our country, the future of our country. The only thing that will be done against them is to be able to stand together, shoulder to shoulder, united in this struggle, to hold our common position, to those who mean to unite and unite with our words and actions. Here, we will continue this stance against the PKK terror group taking over the betrayal watch from the province of Şırnak, Mardin, Diyarbakır, trying to aim at our unity and unity by setting off bombs. I'm saying that the fight with both the PKK and the other terrorist organization will continue until the end. At the same time this week, Haci Bektas Parents Memorial Days. And as it is said here, we will continue to be one, big, alive. I'm saying that the union messages here are very important to our country. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0045par0211	Thank you, too. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly "North Korean Refugees and Human Rights International Parliamentary Coalition 13th," which will be held in Seoul from 29 August to 31 August 2016, the capital of the Republic of Korea. The General Assembly Meeting was adopted in the 121st Union of the General Assembly of Turkey, dated 2/8/2016, for the participation of a delegation from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The names of the political party groups, dated 28/3/1990 and announced by the General Assembly to form a delegation under Article 2 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 3620, are submitted to the information. Name and Last Name Selection Environment It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In an effort to investigate the problems of olive and olive oil producers and prevent the victims of producers, including legal regulations, we would like to submit a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution under Articles 98th, 104 and 105, in order to determine the measures that must be taken. [[Manisa]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] 4) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 5) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] 12) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Antalya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 16) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] 17) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[Ankara]] [[Sakarya]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] The olive, a very special plant, is then presented as olive oil, table olives, pirina, pirina oil, and soap. This multi-dimensional assessment naturally diversifies the problems of olives, and each sector with technological processing processes is affected differently than these problems. Turkey is ranked fourth in the production of Dane olives, second in its table olive production and exports, and fourth in the presence of olive trees, olive oil production and exports. High input costs and insufficient support are causing problems in external competition while destroying our olive producers. The European Union, where olive oil production, consumption and trade are most common, gives the manufacturer an average of 2.3 euros per kilo. While olives are not supported in Turkey, olive oil is supported by 70 cents per kilo. Small farmers who give olives to oil can't benefit from oil premiums. Since the registration system is not popular, some 50,000 tonnes of 150,000 tonnes of olive oil are used for bonus support. In order for olives to be recorded and given to consumers in healthy and reliable conditions, like olive oil, a table olive must be given bonus support or a field-based support, such as in the European Union. The differences between institutions that estimate a recollateral for olive production are very serious, and the policy of olivery has been wavering. Farmers who produce olives and olive oil and companies who trade in olives, companies related to the industry, cooperatives, research institutes, universities, public institutions and institutions do not work together and co-ordinately. Tens of thousands of tons of illegal olive oil from Syria into Turkey have negative impact on the market. Misappropriations such as fertilizer, exterminating, irrigation, prunes, soil processing, are due to the failures of the harvest, causing low efficiency and quality. The lack of effective combat with an olive fly affects the efficiency and quality of the olive. Table olives are a negative influence on the image of Turkish olives in domestic and external markets, and under-stairs businesses are lacking in the capacity of businesses operating under proper technical and hygienic conditions. Furthermore, the fact that most of Turkey's olive trees are old increases the cost of collecting. There is not enough funding for the development of new types of world palate-appropriate and the preservation of olive gene resources. Mistakes made during the process of extracting olive oil result in the loss of efficiency and quality. Although it is of great importance to store olive oil, licensed storage has not been popularized. In our country, 500,000 families work in the production of olives and olive oil. On average, 22,000 tonnes of table olives and 20,000 tons of olive oil are exported annually. As a result of the checks by the Ministry of Food Agriculture and Animalism, some major companies reportedly introduced oil (instruction, condensation) into something else. These companies have been attacking the image of Turkish olives in the international arena, and it has had a negative impact on our export of olive oil. The Ministry of Food Agriculture and Animalism, which aims to be the world's second in olive production, has signed an arrangement that will end olivery by opening up olive fields to mining and energy investments by opening up the Law of Dair to the immunization of the wilds on 3/4/2012. This regulation has been halted by decision 2013/157 of the Court of Public Prosecutor's Offices. Since 2002, six regulations with similar changes have been cancelled by the judiciary, while the AKP, which has decided to open olive groves in order to open olive groves, referred the bill to the TBM on 16/6/2014. Since our country is facing urgent and heavy problems in the olive and olive oil sector, the issue must be examined and taken into full size by a parliamentary research commission in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, I propose and propose the opening of Parliamental research on Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution and on Articles 104 and 105 of the Charter of the Constitution in order to improve production and prevent the victims of producers by investigating the problems of the vineyard industry and grape producers. [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] 3) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 4) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] 6) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] 11) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Ankara]] 16) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] 17) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[Sakarya]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] In addition to being the gene center of vines, our country has the oldest and oldest culture of vines. More than 1,200 species of grapes in the world are grown in our country. Turkey ranks 6th in the world, with an average production of 4.2 million tonnes of grapes per year in 480,000 hectares of vineyards. While Turkey has no say in the tablekeeping grape trade, it exports nearly 50 per cent of the world's trade by exporting close to all 250,000 tons of seedless raisins it produces each year. Each year, the average $500 million raisins are exported to $200 million in age grapes. The nuclear-free raisin, which is important to the country, is also important to the Aegean region, providing employment for more than 100,000 families in the region. The development of Turkey's vineyard depends on the fresh or processed product being evaluated in domestic and external markets. Therefore, production goals must be determined to compete in domestic and external markets. In particular, the possession of world leadership in a seedless raisin is directly related to increased quality, market-producing and productive income. Coreless raisins require the creation of an EU-like storage organisation and support of storage costs. One of the reasons why raisins increase resolving is that the unsellable grape is dehydrated. The destabilization of supply demand is a victim of our producers. Therefore, alternative consumption opportunities should be developed in the production of grapes in terms of supply phases. Too many buyers and sellers must be found together in order for the price of grapes to grow in the free market. To do that, the stock markets should be created, or the current stock markets should be employed, and trade markets should be stopped from being a registration agency. The most effective method for bacterial and viral diseases in the vineyards is the use of clean and healthy saplings, but not the demand for vaccinated vines. The fertilizer given to the grape makers is insufficient in the fuel supply. With high costs in our country, it is not possible for grape producers to compete with grape producers in the EU and the United States who receive a large amount of support. Fugitive grapes have a negative impact on product marketing and the price of free markets. Smuggled grapes are mixed in Turkish grapes and sold abroad and threaten our quality. Pharmaceutical residue and cleaning in grapes are the biggest problems in exports. The packaging must be done to adapt to EU standards. TEKEL's liquor department buys an age grape and prevents raisin prices from falling, and after privatising it, liquor factories buy the first grapes at 23% lower than the price of grapes. The largest buyer in the raisin trade and the regulatory position of the market, TARIST, is unable to implement an acquisition that will resuscitate the market after the restructuring process, due to lack of funding. In the years of supply surplus, market prices have dropped far below the sale prices of Tarish. Russia has banned imports of fruits and vegetables from Turkey. About 75 percent of our age-grain exports are done in Russia. Hence, one of the most affected products of this ban is grape age. It is not possible for 70 per cent of the age grapes exported to Russia to be exported to another country due to quality and EU standards. If Russia continues its embargo on age vegetables and fruits, the producers will consider their grapes to be drying next season. This will cause the price of raisins to drop and sell grapes under the cost of our farmers. To assess our country's potential and to increase the income and prosperity level of hundreds of thousands of families who have provided their livelihood for the vineyard, and to compete with our producers, the problems facing other country's manufacturers need to be resolved quickly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th and Interior Charter (Isparta Eğirdir Lake) and its environment should be able to transfer its natural state and wealth to the next generation with all its properties. 14/12/2015 [[Isparta]] [[Mughle]] 3) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Ankara]] [[Aydın]] [[Mersin]] [[Sakarya]] [[Erzurum]] [[Scholarship]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] 13) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 15) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 16) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Ankara]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] 20) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] Lake Bendir is a natural wealth that gives a great social and economic value to its region, which can be considered the pearl of our country. There are many village settlements and a district adjacent to the lake. The need for Isparta's drinking water is provided from the lake as well as the watering required for agriculture. Our country also contributes greatly to the production of apples. The lake has a significant amount of fishing. Lake Bender also has a great potential for tourism. The natural state and wealth of Lake Bending and its surroundings should be protected, considering the balance of use. Recent research around the lake has determined that some settlements are being poured into the lake. However, with the pollution of the lake, it is possible that not only do we have drinking water coming into the houses alone, but we have also found traces of harmful material in fruits and vegetables that grow in the region and animal foods. If the matter is not resolved immediately, the future of the lake will be in jeopardy. The Lake Bendir Basin Protection Plan, designed to protect the lake, should also consider the demands of the local people. There is a need for a new lake basin protection plan to ensure that people in the region's settlements continue their agriculture and livestock activities. The project, provided with drinking water from the Isparta Karacaören Dam to Antalya, would be harmful to Lake Curridir and its surrounding settlements. As a result, agricultural activities at Lake Eğirdir can be seen as a source of nitrogen and phosphorus, which can disrupt the lake's water quality and even cause eryrophilia in the lake. In addition, the pestitism used in agricultural activities, which is highly dangerous for living life, tends to build up in the body and lake floor of water life, also reaches the lake with superficial flows. To reduce pollution to the lake, the amount of fertilizer and pesticide used in agricultural activity in the basin must first be reduced. However, studies should be made in the basin to produce plant and animal products using ecological methods. In order to preserve the quality of water on Lake Bendir, wastewater treatment facilities must be built and before domestic wastewaters are desecrated, the battery must be removed from the lake. The lower the amount of phosphorus and nitrogen carried to the lake with external effects and the longer the current hydrodynamic structure of the lake is preserved, the easier it will be to regenerate itself in terms of water quality. Because of these reasons I have explained, Parliamental research is required to investigate what must be done in order to preserve the nature of Lake Eğirdir and its riches. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has six papers, I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Human Rights Review Commission has had a request for Turkey's Grand National Assembly to be able to work during its holidays. This request, which is approved by our presidency, shall be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 25 of the Civil Code. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The petition commission has had a request that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be able to work during its holidays. This request, which is approved by our presidency, shall be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 25 of the Civil Code. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Justice Commission has had a request that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be able to work during its holidays. This request, which is approved by our presidency, shall be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 25 of the Civil Code. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Constitutional Commission has had a request that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be able to work during its holidays. This request, which is approved by our presidency, shall be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 25 of the Civil Code. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The chairman of the Karma Commission, established by members of the Constitution and Justice Commission, has had a request for Turkey's Grand National Assembly to work during its holidays. This request, which is approved by our presidency, shall be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 25 of the Civil Code. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission has had a request that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be able to work during its holidays. This request, which is approved by our presidency, shall be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 25 of the Civil Code. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 16/8/2016 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. The proposal was suggested on July 26, 2016, that the Parliamentary Investigation Advisation of the Parliamentary Assembly, which was given to the Grand National Assembly for all dimensions of right violations that reached a serious extent, given by Mus MP Mr. Burcu Çelik Özkan and his friends (2500 rows), should be read in the joint session of Tuesday (June 16/8/2016) and held in the same date of the talks. The People's Democratic Party will speak first in favour of the group's proposal, Mr. Besime Konca. Here you go, Mr. Konca.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0046par0460	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. We discussed all problems in our proposal, especially problems in prisons. However, we would also like to reiterate our concerns about the establishment of this research commission. The government is trying to create a date before July 15th and after July 15th. However, this is not a history that has changed for us. There was no difference between what the AKP's government did in this parliament before July 15th and what it did after July 15th. Yes, maybe we didn't see the July 15 coup in power, they passed out, we were surprised. He might have been in a coma with power poisoning, but on this stand, we've said this coup many times over the years and especially in the last months. The coup has been expressed in Turkey's society for a year; again, in the massacres against Kurdish people; again, on this bench over the crimes of humanity in prisons, the violations of rights. Yes, we've always said that the history of Turkey is the history of coups. The coups took place; they did it with tanks, they did it with epaulets, they did it with military weapons, but the politicians took over all the blows, and they carried on these blows. Instead of the military suit, the suit was worn; we replaced the epaulets with badges; instead of guns, we replaced the power of law, the power of politics, and they continued their coup with this policy. But there is a different reality of the July 15 coup than the history of Turkey's coups, which needs to be discussed. The AKP, which has been in power for 14 years, carried out the constitution of the coup regime on September 12th, continued its coup regime by taking over the constitution of the Kenan Universe and declared it today as a monster and carried out the coup, supporting, encouraging, applauding, even criticizing, even defending those who stood on these bench, and saying, "We didn't see it, we did not hear it, we had a snake in our koynus, and we did not hear it." In this sense, for Turkey's history, yes, we would also like to point out that July 15th is an interesting and more controversial coup attempt to be questioned, and that the AKP ruling in this process is a process that should be discussed and accountable. Yes, this power is guilty because you support these coupgers. These coupgers have done a lot of massacres, they've done a political genocide operation, and you're guilty of being together, even though they've committed multiple rights violations in prisons with you. As a government, you're guilty as a government because you've waged war against those who have deciphered it. By taking over this coup after July 15th, you are guilty of playing democracy by taking over your methods, and the operations you started against those who opposed it, the genocides you started, you are guilty again. Yes, in prisons, a very short time before the coup, I had the right to speak with very concrete examples and violations, and again, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, the Minister of Justice on this stand, said that it was slander in the face of every word we said, and they never accepted what we said. Again, the crimes we're about to say today are committed in prison. Maybe we don't have enough time, but let's just say from the latest information that we've received, there are serious crimes against humanity, serious rights violations, and tortures. Who are the units that are there, already defined as the continent? Who are these units that call themselves Allahu Akbar, who hit the shields with batons, who enter rooms, wards, remove prisoners at the crack of dawn, put them in the air, put them on the ground, tortured, tortured, and sacrificed their lives to you? Again, Antalya is in Type L Prison; again, in Bayburt Prison; again, in Tarsus Prison, in the Breachs Prison, in Antwerp Prison, Diyarbakır Prison -- let's not count all prisons -- thousands of people are being tortured, exiled, forced to exile. At the crack of dawn, the wards are rushed, tortured, taken to prisons in the ring, with no human condition, no conditions, no human rights to meet their needs. Again, the tortures are still being carried out by the vents. There are thousands of sick prisoners and hundreds of them are prisoners clawing at death. When the strikers slaughtered 240 people, you showed a strong stance, a strong reflex. Yes, the people have stopped the coup, the people have paid the price, the power is guilty for it, and the power must answer for it. The authorities protect the people, the authorities protect the people from the coup, the public doesn't pay the price by standing in front of the coup, and the government is responsible for that. If you count the number of people who have been held in these prisons for years and have lost their lives, it's more than the impact has done. For a year, we have counted here the number of people who have been slaughtered in Kurdish provinces, in Cizre, in Sur. We brought his photos here, we counted the number of people burned alive, and the government applauded these deaths, these massacres, and my officer, my police, did not kill civilians. What was the tank doing there, destroying cities, slaughtering civilians? Yes, you see, no matter where the coupgers -- you, the law, the conscience, you, democracy, where you don't see human beings -- they massacre everywhere, and still massacres in those provinces, and still in those provinces the detentions continue intensively. 30 people were taken into custody two days ago in the area where I was his deputy. At five o'clock in the morning, their houses were raided, people were laid down, they were stepped on their backs, their heads, people were beaten, and they were taken into custody. Every insult, every form of blasphemy, and years ago, they arrested tens of thousands of people in 2009, and you're taking over the operations of the force you call the congregation today. You stand against the coupter, the congregation, but in any policy that the congregation has made against democracy, freedom of the congregation, the people of the community today, the NG operations that have raised and raised your voice are unlawful, the towns that have been destroyed, the towns that have been destroyed, the cities that are unlawful, the people's crime; on the contrary, in these processes, you have given these powers power by organizing, encouraging, clapping, clapping. The same is happening in prisons today. We have expressed on this stage prior to the coup that there was much more to the coup than there was to the coup attempt on September 12, 1980. We have stated on this bench that Shakran Prison resembles Guantanamo, and you are making rights violations in prisons today by turning the coup into Nazi concentration camps in a much more common way. We demand the establishment of a commission on this immediately and the investigation of all prisons. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0047par0471	Thank you. People's Democratic Party will first speak against the group's proposal, Tripoli MP Salih Cora. Here you go, Mr. Cora.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0048par0475	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before I begin my remarks, I strongly condemn the bloody coup attempt launched on July 15, 2016 by members of the uniformed terrorist organization who infiltrated the Turkish Armed Forces. This coup attempt to eliminate national will, democracy and law was soon eliminated, along with the courage shown by our commander-in-chief and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, along with the determination of millions of citizens who landed on the streets, barracks, airports. Likewise, in the Great National Assembly of Turkey that day, under this sacred roof, where the national will was represented -- although it was known that we had members of the nation -- the courageous fight under the bombs, the courageous stand of our MPs who did not leave this place is admirable. We thank all our political parties. Because a clear stance by political parties in the face of the coup has left the coupgers eager. In the same way, we do not recognize this attempt by the heroic security forces within the Turkish Armed Forces and in the security of the media's failure to surrender to the coupkers by writing and visual media, our country has been saved from a great disaster as they stand firm in the face of the coupgers. Countless heroics, a great epic emerges. We regard this as the first reflection of the new Turkey's idea of advanced democracy, the first good news. On the night of July 15th, we experienced another version of what had happened in Çanakkale, which gave us an epiphany. Each verse of the Instigative March was re-created that night. We remember our martyrs with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude. We're proud of them. In the same way, we are proud of our veterans who were heroic that night, who lay under the tanks, who lay down in front of the palettes, and who, despite all the threats, knew that he would die even if he took one step at a time. Every citizen who fills the square is our hero. Likewise, valuable lawmakers, our fight against this terrorist organization will continue in this culture of reconciliation with this firm stance of all political parties. We all saw together that the terrorist organization was a killer, a thief, a sneaky organization, which was clearly revealed. The killer is a terrorist organization because we found out that there was a killer organization on the street, along with killing innocent people with no weapons but their flag. It's a sneaky organization because it's been influenced by a top secret organization in the strategic institutions of the state. The thief is an organization because they intended to settle in the institutions of the state by stealing KPSS and other test questions. It's a traitorous organization because it's trying to put our country in a difficult position by lobbying for the purpose of smearing Turkey outside. I hereby bless all our martyrs on the 15th of July, and wish our veterans health and immediate healing. Dear MPs, the HDP group's proposal has made a motion that prisoners have been beaten in prisons, insulted and threatened and tortured. Many of the issues mentioned in this motion are actually nothing more than territorial propaganda by the PKK's terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0049par0483	Yeah, right.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0048par0485	There has never been a collectively systematic punishment in prisons.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0050par0486	How do you know?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0048par0487	It's a fact that we register in prisons, prison reviews, and the head of the prison commission. The PKK wants to turn prisons into organisational homes. Since this is not allowed, such baseless claims are being maintained, and each time with the same sentences are asked to be brought up in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. What could be more natural than the ban of a television channel known as its public support of the PKK in prisons? In prisons, no one has ever been under any pressure because of his religion, race, organization. But terrorist organizations want to turn the prisons into their ideological cells in order to bring them under their control. It's not possible to consider it a violation of the rights that prison authorities won't allow it. There are rules for everyone. They have a legal basis, all of them, every one of them has a legal basis. However, a prison where PKK has its own rules is wanted to be discovered, and no democratic law state can allow it, as we have never allowed it. I'm completing my commitments to the motion on this occasion. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0051par0492	Thank you, Mr Cora.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0052par0493	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0051par0494	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0052par0495	In his speech, Mr. President said that the motion that we have submitted has absolutely nothing to do with this, that the PKK's ground propaganda has been carried out in particular, and that everyone has been treated equally, contradicting the second statement, and that everyone has equal rights there. At the same time, he said the information that television channels were not shown again, that they were canceled, was not true. I mean, he picked on us all by saying that the motion we gave him in his entire speech wasn't true. We demand a say in his case.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0051par0496	Now, Mr. Ironel, he said his thoughts, too, but you...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0053par0497	No, it's his own opinion. What does that mean?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0054par0498	What's black propaganda, thinking?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0051par0499	If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0055par0500	Let me tell you something, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0051par0501	If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0055par0502	Let me put it this way...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0051par0503	Mr. Demirel, I listened to you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0055par0504	Okay. Let me recap: It's as if we've made this motion by doing someone's land propaganda. Now, this is a complete taunt, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0056par0506	I've never picked on anyone, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0057par0507	At least own it, own it.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0058par0508	I've never heard you say a sentence like that. I'll take a look at the transcripts if you'd like.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0059par0509	It's like we're...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0058par0510	Let me keep my word. If I could get you...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0059par0511	Okay, look at the transcripts, but...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0058par0512	Mr. Demirel, if there's any evidence that you and your group have been made a tool of territorial propaganda, I'll look at the transcripts and I'll give you my word. Okay?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0059par0513	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0058par0514	Thank you. In favour of the group proposal of Peoples' Democratic Party, Mr. Engin Ozkoc will speak last. Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0060par0518	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you with love. We're going through a very important process. It is said that there has been a coup attempt in Turkey. Our President is unaware of this coup attempt. Our president is learning about the coup from his brother-in-law. Our Prime Minister doesn't know. Our Prime Minister is also learning about the coup from his relatives, close by. The National Intelligence Agency doesn't know. There were such hearings in the National Intelligence Agency, but we don't know if it's true or what it is, we can't deal with it. And after talking to the President, a horse can't be changed. We're continuing with an MİT Undersecretary who can't get information on the coup attempt based on a proverb like that. The Police Department doesn't know. The Police General Directorate cannot take the necessary measures on this matter. Whereas the valued lawmakers are now being submitted a motion to investigate the rights and laws that have been violated by our fellow lawmakers in prison. What rights and laws haven't been violated, and I'm asking you from here. Look, as the Security and Intelligence Commission, when the bombs went off and our nation got hurt, when people died on stops, when the bodies were scattered on the streets on their way to work, we said that the Intelligence Commission's Republican People's Party members were not doing their job. The National Intelligence Agency is doing its job, reporting it to the Police Department. They told us. We said if he's reporting to the Police Department, the Police Department isn't doing its job. No, the Police Department is also reporting where it is necessary... Where is the necessary location of the esteemed MPs? It's the Home Office. Either the National Intelligence Agency is lying, or the Police Department is lying, or the Minister is covering up all of this intel. We said it's possible, no, it's not possible... Well, then, we want the head of National Intelligence and the Chief of Police here. We'll tell them, did you do the intel? We've done it... there's some of the intel they've gotten. Well, did you report it to the Police Department and to the relevant ministries? We'll ask the Chief Constable next door: Why didn't you do what you had to do? My fellow lawmakers, Turkey is a state, and it's a great state with a history, a state tradition, and a history in the Middle East. But the managers, unfortunately, are not governments, they are free of diplomacy, they are free of governance, they run Turkey with a clear understanding of the seriousness of politics. They say: "Sorry, we, in the cases of Balyoz and Ergenekon, arrested this state, its patriotic generals, its officers, we arrested its academics, we arrested its journalists; we arrested its doctors, its medical men, its scientists, but we were deceived. The generals, the aides we had deployed at the time were all members of a terrorist organization. But I'm sorry, I'm sorry, we're sorry. They're continuing to do their job, while other cheats are being forced into prisons, and they're being violated by a full-on lynch campaign, with no rights to uphold the law, as well as by age. My dear friends, what research commission are we talking about? Innocent people who spent years in prison didn't commit suicide? Let's come here and set up research commissions together; you've buried your head in the sand about the terrorist organization, your mind is elsewhere, let's fight this organization inside the state. Where were you when we said you were? You now remember the words of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, you say: "The rule is a unconditional nation." Now you will not write under it, so it is your people's authority everywhere. I say, based on that statement that you have translated: If indeed the people are in control, and the people are in no condition, you must abandon it. As a government that has been wronged in Ergenekon, which has caused the deaths of thousands of people, you have condemned the Republic of Turkey for many years to strike three, five, in a common state understanding of the Republic of Turkey, by putting more than 300 people in the presence of inspectors. How long do you have to be misled before you can leave this mission? When will you come to your senses? Now I ask you, dozens of people come to us in Sakarya demanding victims. Among them are teachers, doctors. One of the doctors said, "Well, I liked a tweet about travel events." What does this have to do with the terrorist organization, and why are you taking him out of office? Why are you victimizing his family? His son's wedding is on the 26th. Why do you offend him in front of society? If you can't do this sorting here, three days later you'll say: "Yahu, we've been deceived about this, and we've also been weak about it." Look, the child of an officer who later appeared innocent... first the officer was removed from duty, then his wife was taken from the state agency, and then you were the son of a traitor on the street. It's called work, and that boy wakes up at night, banging his head against the walls, and goes out and takes a knife from the kitchen and cuts himself off. That's where you brought the Republic of Turkey. If you want to negotiate with the nation, the people's negotiations are here, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the MPs who came with their votes are on this side. But you're only dealing with this section and you're not listening, you're not listening to criticism. It's not what the opposition said, but what you... as our previous President stated: this is where you'll come if you entrust yourself to one person, Abdullah Gul says. You don't listen to us, you don't listen to the opposition, at least listen to your own President. Do not submit Turkey to a person's mind. We have thousands of people in Turkey who are much smarter, far more talented, far more skilled, who know what they're doing because the name of this republic is the Republic of Turkey. These people have the power to pull this off, as long as you get out of the way of this nation. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0061par0528	Thank you. People's Democratic Party Group's proposal against Giresun MP Sabri Ozturk will finally speak. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0062par0532	Here you go, Mr. Ozturk. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, seriously, our country is living in historic days starting on the evening of July 15th. There was a coup attempt on our country that night by a rogue Fethullahist terrorist organization. It's not enough to call it just an attempt at violence, it was an invasion of our country, it was an attempt to invade our nation, really, our parliament, our MPs, our people, whatever political party it belonged to, everyone from seven to seventy people, against it by writing a heroic epic tale. Our nation has claimed its will and its future. Indeed, the treacherous members of the Fethullahist terrorist organization have attempted an invasion against the most critical institutions of our country, against the Parliament of the national will, against the General Staff, against the Presidential Assembly, briefly against Turkey's most critical institutions. However, our nation, in fact, our heroic sons have fought back against tanks. Of course, there's a lot to be said here, but I especially want to say that I was here that night, amongst the MPs at the Parliament where the national will was established. Really, I'd like to make a note of that: that all the political parties showed the whole world that they were really co-operated on the matter of the country, that they were the only punch in the country, that they were the only one. This painting is an epic for Turkey; this painting is an epic for Congress, for our nation. Our wish is that this national union, this agreement, this common sense of denominator, will always continue. I, of course, congratulate all our MPs, all the party groups, for this stance of our Veteran Assembly, which suits our nation's will. On this occasion, I ask God's mercy for our martyrs, and I remember them with gratitude, and I offer my condolences to their families, and I pray to our veterans for immediate healing. As I end my words, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0063par0539	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0064par0540	Mr. President, have the reports arrived? We had a request. Have you looked at the records?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0063par0541	The transcripts didn't show. You have a say, don't worry about it. They didn't show.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0064par0542	But the agenda is moving forward, Mayor. There was a very obvious taunt. We're gonna close that agenda right now.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0063par0543	It doesn't matter. I'll give it to you again.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0064par0544	But we want to make a special matter of the need to set up a commission...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0063par0545	Now, I've requested the reports, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0064par0546	President, there was a very clear taunt. We'll wait for the reports, we'll be fine with that.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0065par0547	It's the couch. It's the clerks.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0064par0548	But once again, we're going to say that there's been a very obvious bullying.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0066par0549	Yes, Mr. Ironel, please.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0064par0550	Mrs. Besime will speak for our group.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0066par0551	Mr. Konca, come in.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0067par0554	Mr. President, I actually told you in the first place when the esteemed MPs got a say in the matter. We told our critics how power would approach our research proposals, and we were right about that. For him, a story is created before and after July 15th, and this is the story. This mind, this logic, this power poisoning, this monogamy, this hostility, this mentality will not be democratized unless Turkey gives up. I told you from this podium a long time ago. Today you're declaring the community a terrorist organization, and tomorrow you're going to form more terrorist organizations inside of you, and you're going to take them out. You're on the same page, you're not changing. What law does it take to put a camera in the bathroom in Alanya Prison?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0068par0556	Women's prison.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0067par0557	And she's in prison. What legal reason is there for breaking your foot and torturing Reza Şahin (Amasya) by throwing him down the stairs? We couldn't explain it because it was ten minutes ago. We've been through this dozens of times with the Minister of Justice, the institutions. What's the reason we're not going to prison as a deputy? What concern do you have? A year before it was over, a year ago, you mentioned 99 percent of prisons full. There's no place to stay in prison, you put nine people in a three-man place; people lie down, prisoners lie down in order, lay down for three hours, lie down for another, lie down during the day; a group lie down at night; a group sleeps in the shift system. What law do they have to do with it? Mr. Orator says there's no problem at the prison. He didn't see the prison door, he didn't know about the prison. We know that those who don't know about his assistant, or his chief, or his rebellion, will have no news of the prisons under those blockades. Don't speak by heart. Set up the commission, find out how unfair we are, what we support, what we want to cover up. [[!]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If that's your concern, the congregation...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0069par0562	Thank you, Mr. Konca. The transcripts just came in. Your alibi is in the transcripts. I promised you because my fellow clerks told you it already existed, and I'll let you know it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0070par0564	It'd be nice if you could believe us.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0069par0568	People's Democratic Party...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0071par0571	We have a roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit01spe0069par0572	I'm going to put the group proposal of the People's Democratic Party to your votes, and there's a request for roll call. Let us now name Mr. Konca, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, Mr. Kürkçü, Mr. Toğul, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Beştaş, Mr. Akdoğan, Mr. Zeydan, Mr. İrmez, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Acar Başaran, Mr. Encu, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Özturk. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0069par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote of the People's Democratic Party Group, the roll call on demand was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday (now) 16/8/2016, I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Vice President The 411-trial bill, which has been published and distributed in less than 48 hours, will be placed on the agenda to the 1st order of the Law Charter and Other Affairs from the Commissions, and the 88th Bill of Law, which is in this section again, will be placed in the 2nd row of this section, and the order of other tasks will be considered according to this. On Tuesday (August 16th 2016) until the completion of the talks of Bill 411 (today) on Tuesday (August 16th); Until the meeting of Wednesday (August 17th 2016), until the meeting of the Legislature, number 88, was completed; Until the meeting of Thursday (August 18, 2016) of the 406th Amendment, until the completion of the talks on the matter until the draft of the Law, Besides weekdays, 19th, 20th and 21st August 2016 Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays at 14 p.m. Meeting at 00, the talks are on the agenda of "Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions"; Until Friday (August 19th, 2016) the meeting of the talks of the works until Bill No. 35 in the merger of Friday (August 19th) was completed; Until Saturday, August 20, 2016, when the talks were completed until Bill 83 of Legislature were merged; Until the meeting of Sunday (August 21st 2016) of the 181st Bill of Laws until the completion of the talks; It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. At 00 a.m., if the daily schedules are incomplete, the daily schedules will be completed; In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Code, the 411 Bill shall be considered the basic law, and its sections shall be in the following form; It's recommended. In favour of the group's proposal for Justice and Development Party, Antalya MP Mustafa Köse will speak first. Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0072par0037	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I'd like to say that I'm taking a stand in favor of the AK PARTY group proposal. Sir, at our suggestion today, we propose that Bill 411 be taken to the 1st place on the agenda. Again, we propose that the 88th Bill of Law in this section be taken to the 2nd place on the agenda. In today's merger, we predict Parliament's operation until the completion of the talks of Bill 411. It's 24 o'clock. In the event that this study is not completed, we demand that the House work until the entire bill is completed. In tomorrow's merger, we predict negotiations for Bill 88 of Laws, which will continue until the completion of this bill. On Thursday (August 18th), we propose to the Supreme Assembly that the talks of Bill 406 are held. Yes, on Friday (August 19th), we demand the Parliament's work, and here we predict that the talks of Bill 35th of the Law shall be held by the Supreme Assembly. On Saturday (August 20th), we would like to ask the Parliament to work again and to discuss Bill 83 of Laws. On Sunday (August 21st), we request the work of our great Parliament by group until the completion of the talks of Bill 181. Yes, especially today, we will discuss the establishment of the Turkish Entity Fund, as well as the Law Bill 411, which we have envisioned in important areas such as tax, energy, publicisation and the incentive for investments. Talks between the groups have been completed in the Commission with a large consensus, and we ask our General Assembly for support in this bill, which is a serious expectation of our nation. With this bill, we predict that our growth rate will continue with an additional 1.5 per cent increase over the next decade, that the growth and deepening of capital markets will be accelerated, that the use of financing assets will be expanded, and that new investments will provide hundreds of thousands of additional jobs. Again, with this bill, I would like to state that in our area in particular, we have given our citizens a six-month extension and an application period for the long-awaited 2/B/B, both the deadline and the payment period. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly again. I ask God's mercy on our martyrs and greet the Turkish nation, the only nation in the world to take a hit against the coup, and pay tribute to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0073par0051	Thank you, Mr. Köse. The Justice and Development Party will speak first against the group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0074par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge against the group proposal of the Justice and Development Party. I salute the entire General Assembly. Yes, the AKP -- in its new group proposal and in its new group proposal -- has brought a new proposal, particularly last week, to the agenda of the Parliament, envisioning the early talks of Bill 411, which was discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission, and the meeting of the Parliament's working days and hours. As a party, we normally have no objection to the extension of the House's working hours, the weekend's work, the holiday's late. We have made a pledge against you, but we will support your request under normal circumstances, especially in the case of the House being kept open and passing laws for the interests of our country. However, we are opposed to the proposal that the country be extended, not to normalize, but to serve more extraordinary points, in a period where freedoms have been restricted within a state of emergency, and social peace has been broken, and democratic conditions have been put underfoot. If it isn't, we're at a point not when and how long the House will work, but how and what it's working for. From here, the country has been transformed since July 15th, especially in the event of a coup. The Constitution is on hold, the state of law is on hold, but by law, the decrees have been turned into a state, and we have become a country's reality, which is ruled by this. In these conditions, parliament is consolidated with a bag of laws, which, when the country has serious security issues, when there is hunger, poverty, when there are problems of social peace and freedom, which strengthen capital, bring flexibility to capital, exclusion of capital, especially in the face of poor people whose capital is crushed, making it strong against labourers, and the materials within it. The speaker before me just told me that Bill 411 passed by with a great concept. Did we work for the Different Plans and Budget Commission? I wonder if we didn't see that the Plan and Budget Commission only passed by the ruling party MP's commissioners' votes, but were they discussed on another commission, and they were consensualized? If not, the Commission is today discussing the past state of legislation and provisions that a party has drawn up in its own deep space, without a consortium. We don't understand what the concept is. Or the fact that the motions for research have not been downloaded here, in the commission, that they don't want to make amendments to the things they disagree with, and that some parties of the opposition have agreed on secret talks, we're not too interested in that, and we don't have a problem with that. Dear lawmakers, another issue: In particular, in the last month, the country has met the logic of a new singularity. New scenarios are being written in the country and the game of these scenarios is being played through this single routine. The power, the opposition, the main opposition... the power, the power, may have drunk some of the opposition, backed some of it up, but as a multiplication movement, as a mosaic of cultures, we will continue to be the voice of every component of this country when our language turns. I want to express that we will continue to play this role, no matter the cost, even if we remain alone. In this sense, we're especially watching political power gradually develop the building of authoritarianism. About five months ago, when we stated that this served to close women's working life, especially when the postpartum work law came to women, some opposition parties had expressed from this stand that this part-time work law was revolutionary, and we were sad to see it. But we told them in response, especially only through women, that the arrangements that had been decorated with good sentences and closed their work life would gradually crush their entire working life, as we witnessed the opening of slavery offices under the name of the employment bureaus, just two months after those sentences, which remained quite meaningless. Now, precious lawmakers, the government is trying to run its own party fiction and agenda on the basis of a coup attempt by this congregation, especially on July 15th, to make the country vomit blood, and has backed up some of the opposition parties for themselves. Today, however, we have the right to be the only party to hold the same stance, both ten years ago and five years ago and today, in connection with the concept of this congregation, which is run by the law of hostility and trying to turn the country into a pool of blood. Because you can't say that here, especially because of the words of some of the country's ministers, which are directed at Fethullah Gulen. She's a wise person. Everything is under our control. The words of the gang are still in the memory, or the words that wanted to end longing with them were being hailed. Again, the precious MPs, the current Prime Minister, especially in the theatre under the Turkish Olympics, are the language of love, the language of love, the language of Turkish language of Jonah, the language of the Turkish language of Mevlana, and the equivalent of them -- the language of Muterem Fethullah Gülen Hodja. Another issue, valued lawmakers: Yes, this organisation is an insincere and hypocritical organisation, but it acted with political power. This organization is a dirty organization, but it's a power-fed organization. This organization has turned into a bloody organization, but it's this political power that's causing this country trouble. This organization has entered into many people's sins and blood, but it's clear that no one has a greater share of this political power. Now everyone's parallel, everyone's responsible for this painting, and they're trying to create the air as if it's the only political power that's out there. With this, opposition parties are deceived and backed up. What is it? They were tricked. Those who were deceived, who fell for these lies, these theaters were innocent, and those who were not deceived yesterday and today are trying to create a political atmosphere as if they were guilty. We didn't fall for it yesterday, and we're not gonna fall for it today. If similar and derivative organisations come out tomorrow, I would like to say that we will not be fooled as parties and as social opposition. Imagine, those who are deceived, those who are deceived, will rise as thieves, but those who did not fall for it yesterday and today will be tried with a very dirty tongue. You have teamed up with this organization, everyone abroad, especially the Kurds, against the social opposition. Look, especially with the stand against Kurds and social opposition, he's become the one who met with jihadist organizations in Syria and linked hope to him. With movement from here, this organization, yes, was dirty yesterday, it's dirty today, and if it continues to exist tomorrow, it'll be dirty tomorrow. We have a clear stance against them, abroad, abroad. This attitude is rather principled, moral, conscientious, and public rather than political. I respectfully salute the entire General Assembly, stating that we will vote against this motion.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0075par0070	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. The Justice and Development Party will speak in favour of the group's proposal as the second speaker, Mr. Ruhi Ersoy of Osmaniye. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0076par0074	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, Turkey faces an extraordinary event that has not happened in the history of the Republic of Turkey since 15 July. Based on July 15th, Turkey's experiences, experiences, and politics are being re-examined and very important statements and sentences are being used in politics. From the language of political party leaders to the voice of Mr. President, it shows itself. The President's messages, particularly in his speech regarding the establishment of the Justice and Development Party, which he is the founder of, are based on the testimony of Turkey's need to act like the party and politician of all Turkey, including its own self-criticism, and now all political references, including the Justice and Development Party. We believe that my country, then my party, and myself. The National Movement Party, which is a reference to that understanding, contributes in some way to its position and its predictions. We believe that in the climate after the assessment of the Yenikapi rally and the Yenikapi rally, this national unity and unity should be shown in the political institution, civil society and all Turkey, as well as the determination to continue until all terrorist organisations are wiped out of this country. All Turkey has seen how the PKK, the DAEŞ and all the organisations that I do not wish to desecrate the Parliament, are actually used as a subcontractor, as power fighters, as obstacles to Turkey. Here, there is insincereness, July 15 coup, or, in fact, junta, a number of measures taken after the terrorist attempt, which have been read as a violation of human rights in the eyes of the West and warned Turkey. Yes, it may, but we would like to see the West in the same language as the coupters who attempted the 15th of July, with the style next to democracy. Yes, there's a savings in the West, meeting with the common denominator of civilization and the common mind of humanity, which is the common denominator of humanity, has created our basic points of origin in the European Union process, but these are the world's common humanity. But we also need to know that from local to national, national to universal, the history of Turkish culture, and the grammar of Turkish culture, have added a lot to these values. Given the Seljuklu-Ostian-Public abandonment, the history books of how we used to write prescriptions to the West during its own insanity and how the West persecuted people because of their beliefs, because of their nationalities, because of their way of life, because of their religion, our own civilization welcomed them. As of today, there have been several moves in Turkey's Grand National Assembly of Western intellectual environments, which have had trouble reading both the Western (July 15th and July 15th) initiative and the terrorist initiative, and they have to continue and continue. The intensive care conditions of the Republic of Turkey must continue in the future with the spirit of unity, but only yesterday, the police officer who martyred his offspring to PKK terrorists in his own lap... the baby killer, child-killer PKK terrorist organization is in the same context and in the same determination to see it go on and continue in an extraordinary way under the conditions of the State of Turkey. Experiences, these practices, we believe, have given birth to a culture of self-criticism in our individual life, political life, political life in general, and social life, and it shows itself that a new understanding in Yenikapi Square is an important stepping stone at the point of a new understanding, blossoming, the Turkish national buildup, the reference of its ability to move forward safely into the future. This style of politics, of course, must go on with its own advice. As we continue with recommendations, we see it as a positive development for institutions to accept the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and to exchange parties from the Turkish National Assembly and institutions for opinions, as well as to assess developments within the scope of the State of Emergency, as well as some decisions can be made. In this scope, we find it a positive development when the Higher Education Council invites academic MPs from parties to the Higher Education Council at the point of meeting parliamentary deputies and visiting groups at the Turkish Grand National Assembly and discussing the issues of students at closed universities on how to place them. We, the National Movement Party, will present our extensive work on this issue during talks with the Higher Education Board as of tomorrow. Turkey can't solve its problems until it solves its education problem, valued lawmakers. In fact, at the heart of all these problems, we have a problem with education, we have a case of education and generosity. So, how did those who abused our high feelings in this noble cause collect the intelligent but impossible children of Anatolia and put their systems inside the state? The point of origin was education because our people, the people of Asia Minor, the people of Anatolia, the people with the caps, the helmets, the calluses, I sell my jacket, I teach my child. Here we are, together with the common sense to solve this child-release culture and the case of the future, which is really the case of the future. What's our policy on basic science? What's our teacher's policy? On what grounds do we take science-edebiyac schools to school, where do they go and where do they come from? Are we going to make the criteria for teaching assignments based on the results, or do we have to rethink our teaching work program, where we're going to set the basis for an educational trial and a teaching system? We have to deal with the education of the Republic of Turkey in a multi-directional way, by making the common mind prevail over all of this. This is very important in the next steps, and in the actions on how to evaluate the closed universities and schools, and in the actions of this common mind and the climate in Yenikapi, which has been established by the climate, is that the ground can be maintained in a healthy manner, valued MPs. On this occasion, the fact that terror activities are still going on in the east and southeast is causing civilian deaths, military and police deaths, infant deaths, saddens all of us. As political party representative, we've been informed that the head of a youth body of the Justice and Development Party has also been martyred there, and we ask for God's mercy. We also believe that the decisive struggle with terrorism -- no matter what its name or where it may be -- will continue to its end, and will continue to this end -- and we observe that the Nationalist Movement Party is doing its part in the continuity of unity, unity, and the sustainability of the nationalist mind, because it has a fundamental backbone and course of the Nationalist Action Party -- the principles that, as I say at the beginning of my discussion -- are not really a word, but first my country. At the point of the sustainability of this understanding, there is the leader, Mr. President of State Garden, who knows what he's doing, who can afford any sacrifice for the state of Turkey and the Turkish nation. This entity is trying to represent Turkey's goal of moving to tomorrows as a parliamentary group within the parliament's memorial, and in every sense, we are prepared to take any initiative in the decisions for the individual interests of the great Turkish nation, and we salute the General Assembly, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0077par0087	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. The Justice and Development Party will finally speak against the group's proposal, Mr. Engin Altay, the Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0078par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. We've been through a lot. After that, I'll never forget the words of a ruling party MP: "This bomb attack on parliament wiped the rust of our ears; we heard each other, became hearing and hearing each other." He said, "I believed it too." Now I see it's not quite like that. She's out of shock, she's out of trauma, and unfortunately, the ruling party has returned to its July 14th settings. May Allah guide you to what you know, but this is not the way, and I will tell you. I don't think the Turkish Grand National Assembly, this sincere, constructive, well-intentioned approach by all groups, political parties after July 15th, made the ruling party not what I thought was necessary. It's only been a month since you've had -- you've never been hit -- you're trusting the majority again, regardless of any warnings from the three opposition parties who think very differently, we'll do what we want with the majority of Parliament. You're at the point. You do, and I have no objection; respect for the national will requires it. The majority of them, of course, will set the agenda of Parliament, make the laws they want, but when you think of one more stone tomorrow, let's hug again. Don't say that again, because this bill, dear friends, is a bill set by three opposition parties who think very differently than I've said. One of us is imperfect, the two of us is imperfect, and the three of us are imperfect? So there's something in this bill that's not in the interest of the country, it's not in the interests of the nation, it's not in the interest of the people, it's not in the interest of the house. It is our duty to warn you, to warn you, and to make these warnings as constructive as possible. As soon as the law begins, Mr. Cleanel, our President of the Plan and Budget Commission Group, this law -- no doubt the other parties -- will present our reserves, our reservations, to you, and to the great nation through the Grand Assembly. In our talks as of this morning, let's review this. There was contact, thought. As of right now, there's been no indication that the groups have re-sitted and made an evaluation on this law. Why am I saying this? I'm saying this for you: I do what I want to do wrong. I have a majority of the logic, the logic of politics. Look, it's not good for you and the country, the majority of the people -- if you are people -- that we all have lived with from time to time, but you've often lived with. I'm also curious as to why, just now, the ruling party MPs say... at the 15th of July, why are you thanking the Republican People's Party, the Peoples' Democratic Party and the National Movement Party? If you think this blow was done against you, you're mistaken. The coup was against the nation, the coup against the Turkish Grand National Assembly. (CHP) We thank you for holding back the blow. Look at the impact like this. So from here, a victim's literature, this coup to the Commander-in-Chief... once, you say the job of the Commander-in-Chief... is to be civilized... and to the President, our commander-in-chief who stands on every stand... is the President's authority, according to the Constitution, as a representative of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The command centre is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. What kind of a thing is that? [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Of course, I have no objection, he's a president of the nation. His statements yesterday confused everyone, and nothing, including me, will be the same as before July 15th. I wanted to hope that the President would see 104 and 105 percent of the Constitution together, so with all his authority, he would no longer be able to use such irresponsible authority. It's like that's what I read, but at the moment we're here, we understand that that's not what the President's approach is like. However, dear friends, we've said three things from the start, and the other parties have said the same thing, and you've said more or less the same thing. We've been in trouble, a bloody, savage, vile attempt has been spurred. As I've always said, the AKP didn't repel it; the people repel it, the Parliament repels it, the media repels it. But what comes after here? When it's said -- that's what comes out of the summits -- you're going to do three things at the summits of political parties in the palace, not hard, but in compassion, logic, you're going to do it in conscience; you're going to deal with it, you're going to deal with it, you're going to deal with it. But reckoning is not an obstacle to normalization or normalization, not a deterrent of reckoning. Let's settle, let's normalize, let's democratize. Normalization doesn't prevent democratization. But if you do this, come here, you've put money in a bank or something, and I've kicked you out of the service. Come here, I couldn't throw you out, but you went and taught at that school, and I threw you out. I've been hearing from the Prime Minister and the President for three or five days now, but it's not believable, we're not going to mix the straw with the straw, we're going to separate the dry from the age. We're not going to turn this into a grudge and revenge project. The Prime Minister repeated his words over and over again, but that's exactly what was done in Turkey. We don't know, mathematically, this terrorist organization isn't just inside of you, it's everywhere, but it's in you, it seems. He'll be sober, we have no objection, but there's no evidence of doubt, no evidence of evidence, no criminal, no suspect; it's a very common rule. We said that, and it's wrong here. It's a common rule: instead of a night in jail, let an innocent man walk out on a thousand suspicious nights. It's a law-approved rule, and you don't follow it. So you're going the wrong way. You're not on your way, you're not on your way. Now, you have no right to ask the opposition to continue this temperate, moderate climate, spring in parliament, which began on this issue as of July 15th, when this bill is in the middle, we can't give it to you. This is how you impose this bill, the asset fund, the bill that started here called the asset fund, it's changed in the text that the commission accepts, but our congressman says that there's going to be a trust fund in the bill. So, friends, members of the group, you're not playing steel sticks here. Parliament is not a law factory; it is where laws are made; it is where laws are made, laws made for the benefit of citizens. I want to underline that, too. If there is no agreement with opposition parties, forget about the holiday on July 19th, forget about the vacation by the end of the month. We will work as opposition parties using all the resources given us by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. You want to work on Friday, too? All right, let's get to work. You want to work Saturday, Sunday too? Aye, the working iron glows. To prevent this law from passing, as the Republican People's Party, we will use all the resources given to us by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We didn't use it right away. We've waited for a mild, positive news from you, but it seems you have no such intention, so let's face it! The Civil Law has given you rights, and has given us rights. It is incumbent upon us to use these rights in the name of the nation, in the name of the nation, in the name of the nation, in the name of our oath.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0079par0105	Oh, come on, Mayor!
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0078par0106	I pledge and declare that we will do so here in the presence of our great nation. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0080par0109	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0081par0110	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0078par0111	Oh, here we go, back to the 14th of July.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0080par0112	Mr. Bostanci, you have a request.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0081par0115	Mr. President, thank you. We expressed our thanks, of course, not because it was done to us, but because it was meant for democracy and the will of the nation. That's the meaning of the coup, and our usual statements are in that direction. We thanked him, and Mr. Engin thanked us. Well, let's thank each other; that'll bring kindness to politics. However, an expression of Mr. Engin, I believe, needs to explain: the terrorist organization is among you the most. He probably mentioned something about this organization's infiltration of various institutions within the scope of its working methods. The terrorist organization rejects his testimony within us, but this terrorist organization...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0082par0119	Complete, please. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0081par0120	...a structure with two faces, a structure that makes itself legitimate on one side and works as a secret organization in the illegitimate core. He was involved in various institutions, places, with the construction of some kind of public relations branch. We've been very careful about these things, especially since December 17th and 25th, and we've continued a struggle, and I must point out that the entire staff of the AK PARTY, the entire structure of the AK PARTY, is on this basis. The assessment of the past must be done in a different context and in a long way. I won't be able to put this together in two sentences here, but it's our basic duty to bring the end of the terrorist organization and to cooperate with all the forces in the direction of the rise of democracy, of the nation's will in this country. In this framework, we will continue to do so, along with all parties in the House and institutions in the same direction. That's what I wanted to talk to you about. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0082par0122	Thank you. I don't want to...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0083par0129	Mr. President, we'll request a roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0082par0130	Now, when you say the demand for destruction, you have to stand up 20 people, Mr. Demirel, when you stand up alone and say, "Don't destroy," there's a hesitation.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0084par0131	We're getting up slowly.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0082par0132	I'm going to submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes, except there's a request for roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir, Mr. Kürkçü, Mr. Türgul, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Beştaş, Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Akdoğan, Mr. Zeydan, Mr. Irmak, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Acar Başaran, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Encu, Mr. Bütükkli, Mr. İrmez, Mr. Özturk. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are multiples, we're checking them out.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0085par0137	Read it, President, read it, and we'll know who voted for each other, and we'll know who voted for each other.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0082par0138	It's happening without realizing it, so they give them compasses and they get into the system, so I've done it a lot.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0085par0139	They're gone, President, they're gone.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit02spe0082par0140	There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0082par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the ruling of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal was voted, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my Law Proposal No. 1240 be brought directly to the agenda. 15/8/2016 As the bidder, Mr. Haydar Akar will speak. Here you are, Mr. Akar. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Congressmans, Mr. Akar is on the stand.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0086par0026	Mayor, shall I start or wait? Anybody wants out, come on.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0082par0027	Congressmans, I think, due to the nature of this place, there's a big hum coming on the stand and we can't hear the speaker, so I'd like to ask you to be sensitive. Here, Mr. Akar, I'm rebooting the clock.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0086par0029	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our president has warned you that those who want to talk, those who don't want to worry about people's problems, can talk outside. There's nothing wrong with that.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0087par0030	This isn't a conversation, Congressman.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0088par0031	Not now.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0087par0032	We're worrying about people's problems.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0089par0033	They can come out, they can chat.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0090par0034	Mr. Akar, I've warned you, please continue your conversation.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0089par0035	Our group vice president just told me. It's not a factory, it's not a law factory, but when we look at the laws brought in, we see that the problems of certain dynamics of society... are not actually problems, we see that the laws are being brought to them to open up new rant doors, but we don't solve the problems of our trade groups, who are really trying to clean up all kinds of jobs, who are trying to earn their living. We've talked about van drivers here before, and now I want to talk about truckers. We brought it in from item 37. What is Article 37? According to the Civil Code, we can bring the legal proposals here in 45 days, as long as they are not discussed in commissions, and the commission is not on the agenda. What does it mean to be taken into the commission's agenda? The commissioners never take the law proposals we offer because they are lawmakers of the ruling party, and they are not discussed in commissions. It's a sector that's been neglected for years, the transportation industry. You know, in Turkey, 95 percent of transportation was done by land roads, which developed after 1950. It's a land line developed by Europeans or capital groups to impose their own productions on Turkey. About 1 million,100,000 of our drivers work in this sector. They work in international logistics companies, they work in their own personal or cooperative vehicles, and I'd like to talk about a segment that our 1,100,000 friends are talking about, the part that they're looking at, a law proposal that concerns 5 million people with the side industry. Now, after saying these things, the biggest problem in this sector is what is called the K documents. A lot of my friends, my congressman friend, whatever political group he's in, he's got friends in the trucking business. These are the issues they're most concerned about: K1, K2, K3, and I call them Scavenger 1. There's no way these K documents can be transferred. Only if he completes the procedure within a temporary period of time to his first-degree relative. For example, when he unloads his truck, after a few months, he has to buy a new document again. These documents aren't cheap either. In order to receive K1, you have to pay more than 20,000 euros, and in order to receive K2 and K3, you have to pay more than 10,000 euros. Of course, if you think you're making too much, you're wrong. We don't see any of our friends around us, as individuals, who are rich. In fact, when you replace one vehicle with two cars, let alone raise those two vehicles to three vehicles, we see that it's from the vehicle in your hand. Again, one of the biggest loads on truckers is a tax load. In the indirect taxes, 60 percent of the cargo on the engine is essentially taking away all the savings or acquisitions of truckers. Here's another thing: If the trucker isn't doing international transport, he carries loads all over Turkey, and he gets diesel bills and other bills from where he goes; he gets them in exchange for the engine he gets; but three or five months later, a year later, two years later, it turns out that this bill is a plastic bill, and a direct trucker's shop is held responsible for it, and that includes a lot of fines. Another dimension: you know, the Plan and Budget Commission has annual budget budgets, and the revenues have traffic tickets in its pen. Whenever it's needed, especially at the end of the month, if the promised number hasn't been reached, you see truckers all over the land, truckers on their backs. Again, what's he doing with this high tax on his bike? In order to compete, he has to use number 10 oil to compete with international companies in particular. Is it true? It's not. But I think the government would do a lot more if it was to reduce their tax load if it was to prevent the use of number 10 oil to prevent the citizens from using number 10 oil. The DMV tax is too expensive. Besides, the insurance is too high. Last year, there was an increase of nearly 300 percent by insurance companies with a law that you passed. Now 15 percent have been reduced. You give good news. Is that even possible? This concerns all the drivers and trade groups. And we're giving you the good news because it's down 15 percent. Actually, it's a lot of problems, but my time is up. Passes to 282 lira from the Osmangazi Bridge, think of the trucker. I think you'll take this offer in a positive light, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0091par0046	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Özkan Yım will speak on behalf of a member of parliament. Here you go, Mr. Yum. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0092par0051	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Court, my dear colleagues, I salute you with respect and love, and I offer my love to all of our fellow citizens who follow us. Yes, my dear colleague has offered me a really good law -- the Land Road Traffic Law, the Law on Special Consumption Tax, and the Law on Road Transport. Mr. Haydar really tried to explain, he explained a lot, but where do we first welcome our guests to Turkey? At airports, of course. I mean, who's welcoming the tourist, the citizen from out of the country, Europe, or anywhere else in the world? Of course our commercial taxis cover it. To do that, we need to remove this bill from commercial taxis once in a while. Today, commercial taxi owners or companies must not pay UTV for a commercial taxi they receive every four years. This is the case in Europe, and because they use these vehicles for at least professional purposes in Turkey, we need to get support for commercial taxis and taxi owners and their companies every four years without the EVVR to receive our visitors from outside the country in order to be very comfortable and efficient when they receive them. This will be our face, and Turkey will really be our face, and it will affect us in a positive way, and it will really keep certain parts of the accidents from going down, and I want to make it very clear that we're going to save fuel. Besides, you know -- our friend just explained -- K1, K2, K3, going on and on, this has a five-year period. In order to reduce all this formalities, we're particularly redrawing the fact that this happens every ten years. On the other hand, you know, we're getting 4% of WTVs from commercial vehicles -- truck, truck, bus, truck, tow truck. You know, no one uses commercial vehicles for their own private business, and no European country is taxed on such vehicles, commercial vehicles, because they're being used for professional purposes. For this, you will see that the DSVP, which is now 4 per cent of commercial vehicles, will quickly be removed, and the commercial car market will also be spared, and new car sales will suddenly rise dramatically. I would like to stress in particular the future of this as a lifeline to our current economy. Now, after seeing the number on the traffic insurance policies, these movers, our truckers, or bus owners don't really use their cars anymore. Why? A tow truck can have around 10,000, 12,000, 14K, 18,000 traffic insurance. For him, immediately, 10 percent of traffic insurance, not 15 percent, as in 2014, 2,500-3 at the most, as in 2015. He says he needs to be moved to the level of 000 liras, and we're especially warning you from here. Otherwise, as soon as the mover goes down, believe what you're sitting in, what you're wearing comes in. We're saying again that this needs to be fixed as soon as possible. As for the mover's survival. A very important element: 12 tonnes, which are not implemented in Turkey, and all movers are provided with a supply of air support per liter. It's given in Bulgaria, it's given in Spain, it's given in Belgium, it's given in Germany, it's given in many European countries. For that reason, in Turkey, the mover must be given a bonus -- about 250 cents per liter -- for 8 cents per liter. I suggest that we all vote in a positive way to ensure that both in the shipping industry and in every 20 people in Turkey, we have to be there for the mover, reminding him that one of the 20 people is making a living from the shipping industry, eating bread, and that, above all sectors, they will survive. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0093par0061	Thank you, Mr. Yum. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues and move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We are starting talks with Turkey's Entity Fund established in the 1st ranking, and with the draft Law Bill to change certain Laws and Laws and İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi; the Supporting of the Developments of the Historical and 6292 Forest Villagers, and the Evaluation of Places Out of Forest Borders in the Treasures, and the drafting of the Plan and Budget Commission Report on the Sales of Treasured Agricultural Lands. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 411 rows. Members of parliament, this bill will be considered as the basic law under Article 91 of the Interior Charter. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı will speak on the whole bill. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0094par0075	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the entire bill, which has been held at 411 rows. On this occasion, I salute you all. The 80-point bill makes changes in the 39 separate laws and laws of which there is no connection as of the issue, which is against the rules of the procedure. In addition, the regulatory impact analysis of the bill, which is mandatory under the relevant legislation, has not been prepared, and has not yet been made a fiscal cargo account, which is required by relevant legislation. Legislative work is conducted in an irregular, sloppy, incomplete and non-responsive manner. The Plan and Budget Commission has been transformed into the General Directorate of Laws and Decisions and has been tried to repair shortcomings, but there are also situations in the Commission talks where there are no authorities to provide information about the issues. While drafting the bill, it has been seen that participation and social dialogue have not been taken into account, that the sector representatives, trade unions, trade organisations, institutions and organisations have not been applied for opinions concerning the regulations that concern many communities in the society. In addition, other commissions have not discussed matters that are in the area of expertise. Although the AKP government has been promised that there will be no more bag editing, it has not given up on the love of bags. A lot of topics in the bag arrangement are overlooked or missed. Some articles that are against the Constitution, in particular, to deliver to an address, even to benefit are compressed into the bag of laws. Similar arrangements were included in this bill. The most controversial articles of the bill are regulations for Hakkari and Şırnak provinces. We support the construction of Turkey's southeastern province of Turkey's southeastern province of Turkey's southeastern province of Turkey's southeastern province of Turkey and Turkey's southeastern province of Turkey, but it is unfair that Hakkari and Şırnak's district should be converted to the province and we have repeatedly explained that we are against it as the Milliyetian Movement Party. No one has the right to offend Hakkari and Şırnak people, to emulate their trust and loyalty to the state. It is not wise to go to such an arrangement in today's environment. Who will benefit from this arrangement, who will it serve, and it must be carefully thought out, and it must be removed from the bill. In Article 35 of the bill, privatisation of shares in commercial-purpose enterprises owned by special budgetary administrations and those reported to the Privatisation Administration by these entities. Based on the establishments around me, it's clear that there's a very large portfolio involved. These governments know better the status of their own stocks and assets and manage better. Such an arrangement is not right and brings other things to mind. Article 62 of the bill is also highly discussed. According to this article, the foundation's ban on broadcasting licenses is being lifted and the foundation's founders are allowed to become media partners. The Law on Establishment and Publishing Services of Radio and Television No. 6112 has ruled that political parties, trade unions, trade organisations, cooperatives, associations, foundations, local administrations and that they will not be licensed to broadcast to their companies and partners, they will not be directly or indirectly partnered to media service providers. The law was adopted during the AKP period in 2011. The regulation on the ban on publication licenses brought with this law now points to the fact that the foundations are being removed with a tweezer, and the specific quality and address is a specific arrangement. This shady arrangement must also be removed from the bill. A new regulation is being made by the Constitutional Court, which gives the Ministry of Health the authority to oversee the work he will make with a public-private cooperation model, but the regulation does not meet the grounds for the Constitutional Court's decision to be annulled. In addition, we think it is more appropriate and necessary for the public to be audited by public audit personnel, which will cost a great deal of money and will take many years. Under the 48th article of the bill, it is possible to reuse the positions that have been cancelled by those who are under contract under Law 4924 in the Ministry of Health. The government has put them on the payroll, and is now making arrangements to re-employ contract personnel. With this app, the government is taking away the rights of unemployed young people who are waiting for the opening of the staff. While we have millions of KPS victims waiting to be appointed over the years, the government is looking to fill the staff with contractors while subcontractors, 4/C (C), temporary, seasonal, proxy and honorary status workers wait with hope. The government, which has made special arrangements for only a few people, can also lead to forest looting with the third and fourth article of the bill, pays no attention to the arrangements that are expected by large communities in the community. Minimum wagers expect an arrangement that will prevent the net minimum wage reduction of 70 liras in October, but the AKP government, which puts everything in the bag, rejects it, doesn't think about how the minimum wage can live with the monthly salary, does not go to an arrangement aimed at reducing the tax load of employees. The pensioners are still waiting for a bank promotion. The government stalls pensioners and cheats on them all the time. Promises have been made for years, but he's failed, failed to keep his promise. Retirers have been fighting for bank promotion for eight years. Everybody gets it, but the pensioners can't get it. Those who live in retirement expect an arrangement of hope, but the government is not from there. Even though the amount of services and premiums for retirement is up, those who are on age terms are suffering. The Minister of Labor says he is against the demand, despite his age in retirement. Most pensioners don't get jobs, no one hires because of their age. Does the Minister know about this? Does he ever think about how these people can support their families? Retirers should not be ignored. The AKP has not given 100 lira monthly bonus support to employers to our shop and farmers to lighten its premium burden. There is no way that the tradesman and the farmer can afford to pay the increased BUG-KUR bonuses. Therefore, a $100 bonus for employers should be given to the shopkeepers and farmers as well. Many of our tradesmen and farmers are unable to account for their time in service, and therefore cannot retire, since insurance has not been registered and registered for their services in the past. The deadlines must be counted as the service of the shopkeepers and farmers, without being asked to register and register before they can be registered, and past services must be allowed to be borrowed. Dear lawmakers, the bill provides radical arrangement for the incentive of investments. However, the arrangement is highly obscure and is vulnerable to abuse. In addition, aggressive incentives for the business period can create unfair competition against other businesses that exist in the industry. An arrangement for the transfer of the treasure's transport without cost, provided the investment is completed and the envisioned employment is provided for five years, paves the way for the pursuit of one of the treasure's fields. Again, the decision on the transfer of investment can lead to the emergence and corruption of means called the "carrier" because there is no clarity as to where the investment can be transferred. The subject of incentives is important. Because when directors distribute public money, they must observe both accountability and appropriateness. Although there is considerable flexibility in incentive use, the bill does not include any elements that provide transparency and accountability. Therefore, the practice must be known to be open to abuse. Our country needs investment, and investments must be taken in order to increase production. During the AKP, the production industry's share in national revenues has fallen, and there is no breakthrough in innovation and technology, so it has been regressed, high-velocity value, and R&D has not been moved to intensive production. The share of high-tech products in industrial production and exports has been halved by 2002. AKP governments are only gossiping about innovation, there's sound, but there's no image. Among 141 countries in the global Innovation Index ranked Turkey in the 54th place. Turkey has fallen nine places behind the list in seven years. As our country, we need new horizons in the economy, new roads, national solutions. There is a need for an economic breakthrough that can develop technology, reward innovation, entrepreneurial initiative, grasp the sphere, and produce information in order to establish economic domain. It is impossible to achieve high growth goals with a production structure that is not strong in innovation and technology infrastructure and is not based on a jump in the manufacturing industry. Precious lawmakers are also allowed to receive a vehicle without a KTV without one of the spouses or children of our martyrs who lost their lives in the fight against terrorism, if they do not have a wife or children. This arrangement is part of the National Movement Party's commitments, and unfortunately our motion to give that opportunity to those who are veterans in the fight against terrorism has not been accepted. Veterans should also be given the benefit of non-EVVE means of equality. Even if it does not include Law number 3713 in Article 56 of the bill, any ordnance or halp mauls that need to be injured due to firing, exercise or other gunshot injuries is also expected to be met by the Social Security Agency without any restrictions. For the Turkish nation, martyrs are the honored heroes, the enlightened, the veterans. It is our duty as states and nations to take care of the trusts and the veterans of our martyrs and to give them the proper level of life in society. In recent years, very important legal arrangements have been made for families of martyrs and veterans, but there are still some problems and demands that remain to be resolved. If the martyrs have more than one child, only one is given the right to employment, and others are not taken care of. All children of martyrs must be employed in state institutions. For each of the parents of martyrs and veterans, each month must be increased, not less than the net amount of minimum wage. Our veterans, suffering from disability, are working under difficult conditions to obtain an old age pension. Some of our gasses benefit the disabled, while the number of days of 3600 bonuses buys a pension of old age, while the other veterans are unable to take advantage of it. Our veterans should be given the right to retire in 3600 days. Non-discriminal action on our Korean and Cypriot veterans must be resolved. In this framework, all combat veterans -- social security or no social security -- must be paid the same amount of honorary monthly. Those who receive the State Medal of Honor should be given a month's pay of honor. As a result of regulations brought in 2013 with Law 6495, the duty has been improved in the months of the disability, and a 25 per cent increase has been given, but the veterans of the military and police duties have not been able to benefit from the increase. In addition, the employee's pensions are cut off as officers. The army and police are also required to benefit from a 25 per cent salary increase and to ensure that their pensions are not cut when they start working. In the fight against terrorism, veterans who have been severely injured, undernourished, have no right to take advantage of any rights. We have veterans who have more than 40 per cent disability rate and are not tied monthly, while civilian terrorism victims are tied to a 40 per cent disability rate. In the fight against terrorism, the non-employable veterans must be tied up monthly, given priority work rights, honored travel cards and interest-free mortgages must be granted, especially in health care. By the way, I'd like to bring up something that we've been so important about as the National Movement Party: Our police are always properly praised, but our police are being spoken about, their years of victimization have been unresolved. There are policemen who are depressed because of the hard work conditions, the shortage of income, and their debt to an unrefundable extent. Despite having made promises in the past, AKP governments have not made an arrangement to solve the problems of our police, especially our retired police officers. When our police retire, they have to work their way up to the age of half their salary, and when they retire, they have a hard time making a living, trying to get a job again, trying to make a living. The main desire of law enforcement is to raise additional indicators and improve working conditions. Our police want 3600 additional indicators rightfully. They want to be given 3600 additional indicators to all the petty officers they fought heroically with, and to many of the public staff who could be considered a precedent. As the National Movement Party, we would like to see the arrangement immediately, including 3600 additional indicators for our police, to improve police personnel' rights and working conditions. Let's vote together to include these matters in this bag of law, and let's do the honors together. Let's take care of our officers, our martyrs' trusts, and our veterans together. Dear lawmakers, there have been recent bag-bag arrangements, there have been 70-80-point laws, but for some reason, the farmer and the peasant don't hit any lottery, let alone a bag for our farmer. In our country, peasants and farmers are having a hard time. As problems grow in agriculture, the AKP government is stubbornly insensitive. See, the number of forced-insurance farmers registered to the Social Security Institution has declined year after year, and according to recent May data, 110,000 people have been reduced in one year. Our farmers in the capital of agriculture, Iconium, were also exposed to disasters. Since October 2015, there has been a high-level drought in the Plains of Iconia, with a significant decline in grain production mainly due to lack of sufficient rain. Again, in the past few months, many of our producers of the flood have suffered great damage, including our provinces, Bozır, Southınir, Ereğli, Karapınar, Çumra, Beyşehir, İlmı. According to the assessments of the agricultural municipal administration, the damage is at an average of 60 per cent, and there are 85 per cent in the south, 80 per cent in the country, 65 per cent in Eregli. Our farmers are desperate, waiting for a helping hand from their government. The expectations of our makers who suffer from disasters must be met. The problems of our manufacturer should not be insensitive, but a comprehensive support package must be put into effect immediately. The first year of farmers' agricultural loans and electricity debt must be postponed without interest, without paying, by spreading it for a few years. In areas where the producers are affected by disaster, they must be able to buy diesel, fertilizer, plow their fields, maintain production, without interest or low interest and long-term loans. The government must show compassion and goodwill by offering a helping hand to our oppressed farmers. Our farmer has been clamped by banks; his field is mortgaged by his garden. Our farmer's loan debt was only $530 million in 2002, and according to BDK data released yesterday, it reached 70.3 billion in June 2016. The AKP has put our farmer in 133 stories of debt. The farmer's debt has increased by 15 per cent in the last six months, 31.4 per cent in the last year. Now, the farmers who are trapped in debt and can't pay their debts, are now waiting in bank credit lines just to meet their needs, having to sell tributes to the land where they make their living and earn their living by their own sweat. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0095par0106	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. On the bill, Mr Osman Baydemir will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Baydemir.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0096par0110	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the HDP Group, which has changed 40 laws and, according to me, represented the 6 million will, but represented 6 million wills, which have been destroyed, othered, tried to be criminalized. This bill, no doubt, will open new fault lines, open new political fault lines, as soon as the law is passed, as soon as some of the clauses it contains. There are already enough fault lines. It'll give you new wounds. There are already enough wounds in the community that need treatment, ointment. Forty laws predict a change. If you look at it from an internal law point of view, Parliament is once again witnessing a disabled practice, a disabled practice. Not enough, Parliament is almost transformed into the basis of this mistake. Under normal circumstances, it would have to pass through all the residency commissions today under Parliament's roof, all the materials in this bill. But as it turns out, only the Plan and Budget Commission did it, and it was discussed. He'll have to go through constitutional supervision. Unfortunately, it did not pass constitutional control, and according to the consultation law, the common denominator had to be designed according to the law of meeting in common. Unfortunately, none of this ever happened. If you'll excuse me, Mr. Secretary is here, and Mr. Vice President is here, and perhaps the last thing I'd like to say is on behalf of the HDP Group: Come on, don't deepen social wounds, don't deepen social fault lines, stop adding new ones. In particular, in this bag of legislation, let's withdraw the order to bring trustees to Şırnak, Hakkari and municipalities, such as the coup law, from within the bag of the law. Let's put forth the effort to create all the remaining materials again with motions, consultations, debates, common sense. If you'll excuse me, I'm not going to go over one item at a time today. As the HDP Group, as part of our humanitarian, moral, political responsibility, we would like to call again today under Parliament's roof, we would like to invite once again into the common mind, once again to call on power to be free of the sense of hatred, and once again we would like to invite this country to give up policies that have led to disaster. Fourteen years ago, the ruling party appeared before the community, against public, military custody, against the injustice of the economic revenue distribution, but at the same time, with a new perspective to move Turkey to the European Union, and without a doubt, with perspective, temennia and claims to solve the Kurdish problem, and with more representation than any election, it took its place in this parliament. More representation because there were 10 per cent dams in representation that undermined the principle of justice and destroyed it, and it was the first time the HDP pierced the constitution of a coup, the Constitution of which the junta had brought in; a page opened that allowed nonviolent, non-conflict resolution of all the problems that are the basis of the free will of the people today -- in terms of the HDP perspective; unfortunately, that page was not recognized by June 8th. The two basic principles are the reason why we're in a handicap today: one of them is Turkey's Syrian policy, which is basically the Kurdish anti-Kurdish policy, which is that a single country in the Middle East could be greeted by zero problems, and there was no single dynamic left. Another was returned to violence, once again, in the pursuit of power on its own. Suruç and Ceylanpınar, a drop of Ceylanpınar, the prime minister of the period. So, we're looking at the files today, we're looking at the undersigneds, we're looking at prosecutors, judges, police chiefs, do you know where they are? They're in prison now because of the coup attempt, but there was a co-operation at the time, and I'm telling you very clearly, it was co-operation. Today, the most primitive, the most clear stance of the coup, the HDP, the most primitive of all, and the Kurdish people who have been withdrawing from HDP and juntists who have uncovered the most clear stance for years, are being transformed into some sort of invoice for a coup. I'll tell you what happened: I was a paralegal, I was watching a case that was in trouble in the state security court; the republic's attorney read his argument about the basis of aiding and abetting an illegal organization, and he explained to the defendant that the defendant should be sentenced to three years and nine months in prison under Article 169 of the Turkish Penal Code. The head of the court asked the defendant. The defendant did not speak Turkish. After the translation, he stood up, raised his hand, and said: "Your honor, the judge asked the bailiff: "What does that mean?" "Mr. President, he doesn't speak Turkish, he says half the sentence." The judge asked the headman: "Why is it half?" He said: "Lord, I swear to you, there is help, help, they came, they were armed, I gave them bread, but I gave them no bed." [[*]] I swear to all of you that for twelve years in your law with the congregation, there was both help and bed. (Public applause) Now it is time to get up on the ground where there is both help and bed, and to return to the Kurdish bill for this coup, this illegal organisation, the illegal organization within the state. We reject this policy, we reject this policy as HDP, which is why we say, "Come, give up these practices." Let's go back to our past, our history. We live in a ground where the society, in accordance with the law, is intended to be carried out by the decree. What is the law of the SS, the decree of the SSS? Buy the dynamics you can buy in society, and process what you can't buy. So, this law is also his law because in a way in society, the international capital is given a silent share given to the individual pension system, the domestic and foreign major capital automotive sector, and the construction sector is accelerated by the reduced interest, and the 100-year institutions, which are the savings of the republic's history and for sharing, are privatised and are funded by it. We are neither thirsty nor a force you can buy, but a structure. We oppose both policies, and we will continue to oppose them. See, within this law, our families, who have died in conflict, are given the right to buy a vehicle without a BTV. Isn't that something to applaud? But protect the children of this people, their children, and prevent them from dying in conflict, and let them die. Come on, we can do this together, we can do this. How? We can do it the same way we did it in 2013, and we can do it. And with that dignity, once again, it's the law of taking out bigger than evil, and while you're expressing it, please don't take it as a threat. For ten years, I was mayor of Diyarbakir, the ancient city of Diyarbakir. What's that supposed to mean? An investigation has been launched into him, and he can remove a mayor from office, governorship or the office of the republic's attorney's office, who has been investigated in any way. Personality of crimes, but at the same time, there is such a thing as "absorption of innocence." How can anyone who's ever been accused of being guilty be considered guilty? As of today, after this law passes, I'm clear and clear, in Kurdish geography, not a single DBP mayor will be left out, all will be dismissed. There won't be a single councilman left from the DBP, they'll all be taken in, they'll all be deposed, and trustees will be appointed as trustees. Is it true, or is it not, that this writing in your God, your religion, your faith, your book, is it true or is it not? I ask you: Is sovereignty unconditionally a nation? E, lie, lie!
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0097par0122	It's true in writing.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0096par0123	How can the Parliament of this nation, the Parliament of this nation, the Minister of Interior, who was elected by the vote of 76 per cent of the people, 80 per cent of the people, 52 per cent of the people, whatever - 55 per cent? How does he get it? It is not enough, it is not enough, it is not enough that the municipality can seize its property, the ministry can seize it; it is not enough that the Constitution of 1982, the Constitution of junta, has seized the municipality, which has given financial autonomy. What in God's name is this? If we don't know, come backstage and tell us, what is this? You know what we're picking up? It's called colonial law, colonial law. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) It's colonial law. One governor isn't enough, you're throwing another governor into the city hall, you're throwing another governor in the town hall, you're appointing another chief, so to speak. It can't be produced. I lived when I was mayor of the city, and our mayor of Sur was suspended. Do you know who ran Sur City for two years?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0097par0124	He's inside now.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0096par0125	Now he's a deputy governor on trial for the coup. God is a thing to be afraid of. A little mind, a little mind, a little mind... what kind of a grudge is that? Whereas this coup mechanics, junta mechanics, gave us all an opportunity to run the political mechanism once again, get back together on the floor of dialogue, and once again build a non-conflict society. Very clearly, this is a coup law, this is a colonial law, which is also an invitation to violence. Don't, don't, don't... Today, what we need to do is not provoke violence, but to stop violence. We're against violence as unregistered and unconditional HDPs, no matter who it comes from, because there's no healthy, healthy port where violence can lead us. The next violence, I say very clearly and clearly, is a violence that poses the risk of confronting our people, Kurds, Turks, Sunnis, Alevis, others, others. Cunta, thank God it didn't succeed, but the current top mind is determined to lead Turkey into civil war. We don't understand it, we don't understand it. A second issue: Şırnak, in 1990 -- a madman throws a stone into a well, can't pull it out forty smarts -- in the safety perspective alone, with more soldiers, more fighting, more supplies, more killings. It's been twenty-six years. What's changed? It is the same logic that makes the same idea that Şırnak is in the province; the same logic removes the same idea from the province's status. For God's sake, from seven to seventy, Şırnak has already been punished for a year. As of now, half of Şırnak is gone, all the buildings are finished, burned to ashes. In that 30km circle to the center of Kasrik Strait and Şırnak, 68,000 people live in tents now, living in huts. What had to be done, what had to be done, was to heal the wounds of that city that those coup generals had burned down, not punish that city from seven to seventy. It is one of the main cities in the history of the Kurdish people, the Kurdish culture world, the Kurdish people's literary world, the Kurdish people's history, Hakkari. A thousand salutes from here to Hakkari, Şırnak. I don't know your language, your culture, your identity." It means. It means appointing trustees to municipalities, appointing colonial governors, under this roof for the Kurdish people, you have no place in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Kurds." It means. What will the Kurds do then, I'll ask you, what will he do, what should he do? What would you do if you were Kurds? All this torture, all this effort, all this hand-holding, all this rejection, what's the cure for that? I'm very clear and clear that the solution is not to fight, but to get away from the nationalism, the armor of racism, the mentality; to learn lessons from history. Let's break it down one more time and break it down together. The name of this problem is the problem of Kurdish and Kurdistan. The solution to the Kurdish and Kurdistan problem is political, its basis is Parliament, its dialogue, meeting in common denominators; it is not violence. This violence, just like pre-November 1st violence, just as the AK PARTI (November 1st) alone did the government, and if the EC PARTİ did the power, then violence may at some point contribute to your laying the dirty parts of the coup mechanics under the carpet, preventing the public from questioning, but be assured, just as you were surrounded by the snake and tried to sting the snake later, so the alliance today's alliance against the Kurd (Kurdish) will also embrace the snake. Because Fascism eventually bites whoever embraces fascism. It's a shame, it's a sin. It's a shame about children, it's a sin. It's a shame about the boy who died yesterday. It's a sin. Those innocents, those babies, the Taybet, the mothers, and the Miray infants -- it's a shame, it's a sin. Parliament's responsibility is not to pledge our responsibility -- and I'm telling you clearly -- but to shout out the truth. We're holding a mirror once again. Once again, let's discuss this bill tonight when the bride is near, and it's not yet irreparable. I'm calling: Group presidents, gather at dinner this evening, and consult with them, "What can we do?" One more thing: the conflict has to stop in this country. The violence of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) must cease, the violence of the state must cease, and the violence of the AKP (AKP) must stop; tortures must stop, mass punishments must stop. Just yesterday, a county manager in our district of Ceylanpınar was detained and rejected at midnight, called fucking Nah. Look, a new process is beginning, a new process. The 1990s are being revived. If we want to stop violence -- and we're open about it, we're clear about it, we're going to keep the position that we've put up so far -- come on, let's all lift up the lockdown. Lockdown is a blow to peace, isolation is an invitation to violence. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Once the lockdown is lifted, let's form a joint intellectual commission that once again constitutes dialogue, the basis for negotiations under the House of Parliament. See, with the dynamics of this country, with the Kurd, as part of the whole of Kurdistan geography, how it can demonstrate all the challenges and the capacity to face all the challenges. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But if you ignore the Kurds, the Kurds will not surrender their existence to any power that does not know it, nor will they give it away. My deepest regards.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0098par0139	Thank you, Mr. Baydemir. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Zechariah Haziel of İzmir will speak. Here you go, Mr. Cleanel.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0099par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you have a bill in front of you, a very long name. The weird thing is, it's a bill that doesn't fit with the name. There's a bill that comes in as a bill on the creation of a hedge fund, and there's a bill that's being negotiated at the Plan Budget Commission right now about the asset fund. I'd like to say here that we find it very sad that our council is dealing with such legislation, this way of working. Parliament is a lawmaker, Parliament is not a confirmation office. Which is why I'm really going to have to start by saying that I'm going to be content with just saying "Law Bill No.411," but I've taken a pledge on the Republican People's Party on Bill 411. In the beginning of my words, I curse the attack on Diyarbakir, wish those who lost their lives mercy and health to the wounded. Dear MPs, our country, our pupil, our democratic republic are under terrorist attack. We don't know what day it is, where it's coming from anymore. Terrorist organisations have become low enough to attack the democratic regime, to attempt a coup, but our people's firmness of democracy has made it through the decisive stance of all political parties against the coup for the time being. Dear lawmakers, politics should not be expected to display the behavior of normal times as it emerges from such situations. Those who are sensitive to the protection of the democratic republic must set their agendas based on the priorities of the country, make arrangements on the principles of the state of law in matters that are agreed upon, and restore confidence in the state in order to resolve the unrest in society as soon as possible. The important thing to build this floor is to avoid regulations that will make citizens feel left out. The arrangements to increase the tension in society, to make our citizens nervous can't be today's problem. So, what do we do? We're making a bag of laws. We make a bag of laws that violate the Constitution, as if we're smuggling goods from the fire, without having a proper discussion, without understanding what it serves and what consequences it will have, and without really explaining them. Dear lawmakers, what are we doing, what are we trying to do? You're negotiating an 80-point bill. The bill begins about burial licenses and ends in the districts of Hakkari and Şırnak. The provinces of Hakkari and Şırnak have been removed from the site of the burial licenses. It is tragic that it ends. Veleddalin amen!
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0100par0152	I'm afraid so.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0099par0153	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This Congress doesn't deserve such a law. Now, my dear friends, we will not sit down and count the things that we've counted so long in our previous talks that the bill we've discussed as a bag of laws, or rather as a fundamental law, but I can assure you that an 80-point bill like this can't be the basic law, it can't be. This is a law that creates individual solutions, even solutions, to very, very special situations only. We don't have anything that regulates the violations of the Civil Code. This is an actual Civil Code amendment. The Constitutional Court sees it this way, and the Parliament sees it that way. You can't keep doing this. As the bags are brought in by the law, everyone brings in their problems and tries to solve them there. The most dangerous thing is that the principles of separation of forces are being eliminated by such regulations. Under the law, the administration conducts a procedure in accordance with that law, the administrative process goes to the judiciary, makes a judgment decision. What's going on in this situation? It is to abide by the judgment, but what would happen if you made a law that would eliminate the judgment and its consequences without changing the relevant law? That would be the seizure of the judicial duties of the law. In a wholesale manner, it means completely exclusion of law, judgment and governance. You can't do that either, which is against the Constitution. You've got something like this in your bill. Now, think of the international reflection of the fact that Congress is being used as a validation office in such laws. At the moment, we are trying to make these arrangements with the bag of law, and on the one hand, by making appropriate international regulations, when calling on international investors to our country: "Come, look, we provide very good incentives here, we make arrangements." At the moment, many rating agencies are trying to see that the Republic of Turkey has the capacity to reform and that it can use it in a universal way; and if it does not, it is taking your country out of the group of countries to invest in. But can we show our capacity to reform with these provisions instead of investing in people, in other countries? That's the problem. This bag bill is 80 articles; 37 amendments to the law. Dear friends, if I could just read the amendments, I'd never fit them in 20 minutes here, and if we went into their contents, we'd be completely drowned. It's the basic law. What are you going to do from now on? You've divided it into three sections, half an hour from ten minutes. There's no way you can see what you've brought in these laws and what you've done. But we have to explain here a few issues that have been brought up with this bill, which will never be accepted, which is seriously uncomfortable in society. Dear friends, the 35th article of this bill is now coming in with an application that is seriously disturbing in society, especially in relation to public enterprises, we have an arrangement to sell their assets through the Privatisation Administration in Article 35. The reason for the bill is that it says: "Professional service." I mean, the Privatisation Administration knows these transactions, so let's sell your goods." But what are the real reasons underlying it? Professional service isn't that important. These organizations are subject to 2886. They are subject to a number of laws. You're not subject to those laws from the moment he gets into the Privatisation Authority. More importantly, there's really no way of understanding that a government would make such a law. These organizations have been given public duties, public duties with the institutional code. It's all set up to do public work; it's in the law, it's in the institutional code, it's seen very clearly in what they've done, what they've done before, what they've done. They can be, they can be, they can increase a real estate, they can increase something, and they may have to use it accordingly. But when they try to sell it, they'll give it to the Privatisation Administration. For example, the building of the National Lottery Administration in Kızılay. When the National Lottery Authority tries to sell it, they'll give it to the Privatisation Administration. What's wrong with the Privatisation Administration? He's authorized to change his zoning status, he'll change it. He gave it 50 stories, and the 5 billion-dollar building increased its value to 50 stories. That's the government's way of selling. A state doesn't create a rant, a state doesn't create a profit, especially by creating a runt. The principle of public interest is therefore important. Collected real estate changes quality, dear friends. As soon as you gave an institution a real estate, as soon as you gave it to it, it changed its quality to be used in accordance with its objectives. As long as you don't destroy that organization, unless you change their laws, you can't turn it into a meta at any time. If you translate, your name will not be the state. Dear friends, I said that the bill began with burial licenses and ended with the removal of Hakkari and Şırnak provinces. Our two provinces have been lifted up. In the sentence of the two provinces, they are removed by three words: "The Hakkari ili has been removed. " (It has been removed from the country.) You all know what it means to be a citizen in our country. It's a status, it's a prestige. Minister, don't we always boast of our Sivasian ways? Now, what do you do when someone says, "I've made the county of Sivas?" I can't stand it.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0101par0164	You're the Slapman.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0099par0165	I can't stand that I'm half-Sivasian, half-Silvasian, half-Stacked. No, you can't do that.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0102par0166	But who are you telling, Minister?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0103par0167	But they do.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0099par0168	While the Germans were doing assessments of the Turks, they made the following statement about the Turks who came to their country in the 1960s: "We wanted to meet the need for labor, people came instead of the workers. " Dear friends, if you're destroying a province, you'll never forget the factor that there is a human being there. Why are you lifting it? Why does Hakkari get up and not become a province? Security issue? The reason is security. If you can't secure it because it's a province, will it be easier to secure it when it's a county?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0104par0170	On the contrary.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0099par0171	That doesn't make sense, that doesn't make sense. Let's assume that you have that logic, and there's not a lot of difficulty in securing it when it comes to it. You have 81 provinces, so what if you have 83? Let go of Hakkari, and let go of Şırnak, and add to it Cizre and Yüksekova, and their districts. Moreover, there is a concept of boundaries. Give specific assignments to the counties in that border district, assign duties to the border trade, I don't know, other tasks. Give the governors special authority to develop relations with those countries. Dear friends, you can't change where a person sees prestige and lives, where they're registered in a birth certificate for such a reason, you don't have that right. You give people additional rights, you give them something to raise their status, but you can't destroy those statuses without a real reason. You can't, certainly not in a bill like this. Dear friends, this bill involves trustee practices that seriously disturb us and are incompatible with local democracy. The rulers of local democracy, of course, can commit crimes, and they can be removed from their duties in connection with those crimes, but it's a process. The laws on what to do in that situation are very clear. He tells them that there will be elections from within the parliament instead of those who have been dismissed because of their involvement or because they committed these crimes. Does the fact that someone committed a crime make it necessary to eliminate the local democracy there as it is? Is there such a thing? We're trying to make some laws that will give us prestige, and we want to tell the world that Turkey has the capacity to make laws, the capacity to reform; we're failing on the most primitive issues of local democracy. That's not gonna happen, that's not gonna happen. Dear friends, this bill includes one of Turkey's most important reforms, one of its incentive reforms, which, to them, is very valuable work. However, as you do so, you also see that there is also a provision that when you make arrangements for this incentive, there is a provision of the rights previously recognised by the Council of Ministers that will not be implemented by the decision of the Council of Ministers. Now, dear friends, can you accept that a law - made arrangement can be changed by the Council of Ministers? You can't do this, you can't do this. People don't feel safe. After a certain period of time, people have a problem of belonging, and automatically, what am I, where do I belong? Don't those who make decisions about me think about my position? Where do these people see the right to change the law that I once saw as right? In this law, for all these reasons, there are issues that need to be discussed, each of which needs to be discussed separately. Talks are held in the relevant commissions, as part of the basic law on these matters. You talk for days, you argue for days, you struggle for days. Then, because he trusted his friends there, the ruling party also defended and negotiated enough. Therefore, I rely on their expertise, and I enact this law as a fundamental law. He says, "It doesn't come from here one by one, it doesn't do that." So, in these 80 articles, how many items are remotely unrelated to the Plan and Budget Commission or to the nature of members of the Plan and Budget Commission? First, there is an arrangement for the removal of Hakkari and Şırnak provinces. First, there are arrangements to appoint trustees to municipalities. These are the duties of the Internal Affairs Commission, their specialty. I've been in the state for 40 years, but I don't have that much to do with local law or local law, local democracy, I know that in culture. You know these things. It's enough that you argue there. You can't say that. The commission of all commissions to a single commission is against the Constitution's Article 162. That's the kind of law you can discuss here that comes under the terms of the residency commissions. Not everyone has that kind of expertise. I mean, whoever it is, Zaloglu Rustem couldn't handle these laws under the circumstances. You're not paying attention, you're missing the point. You're accused of kidnapping them, of not having enough opposition in society. You've made such a law. Did we really take it off, so where did we take it off? You start looking for it. The fact that the other speciality commissions did not perform their duties in accordance with the laws discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission -- I repeat again here -- is against the Constitution's Article 162. Commissions will be discussed, assessed, read their reports, and after their reports, the relevant commissions will only be able to discuss them. I know everything, I do everything. What does that mean? Twenty-five of the 40-member commissioners of the Plan and Budget Commission belong to the ruling party, or to the minority, and the power belongs to them. Imagine that there is such a minority government, that the opposition in other commissions is the majority, and if you discuss everything in the Plan and Budget Commission, what's there to do with other parties? No one has the right to take the function of the House away from the House. No one can minimise or ignore the benefits that will enable them to assign their knowledge and expertise to other commissions, just as parliament has not passed on its budgetary rights. Dear friends, the process we're going through is no ordinary process. This Parliament must make a law in its own frame of view of all the events that society needs. You do this, this Parliament does this; it works nightly, works day and day, works Saturday, works Sunday, doesn't take a vacation if necessary; it doesn't allow all such laws to be broken with holiday blackmail. Let the law be made. You want to pass an incentive law? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Bring it in, bring it in, you'll get it out, you won't have any problems anyway. I think I know what I mean. Opposition doesn't just happen in the mouth of the law. There are people who don't object to the regulation of a lot of laws or to the provisions within them. With them, at least within this floor, it would bring honor to the House to pass laws that will be co-supported. Keeping pressure on someone won't bring much good into it.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0105par0181	Mr. Cleansel, your time is up.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0099par0182	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit03spe0105par0184	Thank you, too, Mr. Cleanel. Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0105par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 411. The commission is here. The government is here. Now, on behalf of him, Emine Nur Günay will speak. Here you go, Mr. Günay.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0106par0008	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own people on the Promotional Development of Investments, the Changing of Two County Centers, and the Amendment to Some Law and Law Orders. I salute you and the Supreme Court. After the 2001 crisis, Turkey's economy was restructured, built on solid foundations, and has successfully passed stress tests that no economy in the world has passed in the last eight years. The global economic crisis after 2008, the reflection of the chaos and civil wars in the surrounding countries due to its geopolitical position, the actions of some terrorist groups who know this environment, the domestic and external attacks on political stability as of 2013, and the latest attempt on July 15th. I'd like you to close your eyes for a moment. Imagine yourself in a country of the most powerful economies in the world, and think of the scenario: there is a coup attempt in the country, the President wants to be killed, the Presidential Division is being bombed. The Prime Minister's vehicle is being shot at, ministers are being tried to take over. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is being bombed. Chief of Staff and Joint Chiefs of Staff are being taken hostage, the chain of command is completely broken, and the petty officers are trying to give orders to the generals. Police departments, Special Forces are being bombed all the time. Warplanes are constantly flying low and bombing over the capital and the largest city in the country. People are being run over by tanks in the streets, dropping armor-piercing bullets from helicopters. Press and broadcasts are being aired live. Thousands of high-ranking soldiers and civil servants are being deposed, arrested. One of the world's so-called leading rating agencies is lowering the country's rating. Now, open your eyes and think, what would that country's economy and financial system be, and in less than 48 hours, on the first day of work, Monday morning? Could the banking system and the stock markets have been opened as if nothing had happened? Could anyone withdraw or deposit money or buy money, buy gold, sell money, transfer money to any place the world wants? Could the import process continue without the slightest interference? Did he only lose 6% on the exchange basket? The stock market would only lose 13 percent? None of these are scripts or theaters, real and yet Turkey stands firm with its nation and its state. I would argue that Turkey, its economy and its financial system are one of the most solid economies. Because he's been through the harshest political and economic tests possible. How many countries in the world could pass these tests with such success? Turkey's economy will continue with structural reforms and conjunctural arrangements on solid foundations. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to share with you a few parameters that are the building blocks of these solid foundations. First, financial discipline. Our GDP deficit, defined by the European Union, is 0.2 per cent of the GDP, Maastricht Kriteri minus 3 per cent, average of rising markets minus 4.5 per cent; in many European Union countries, that rate ranges from 4 per cent to 12 per cent. The second important parameter for financial discipline is the GDP rate of public spending. According to Maastricht Kriteri. According to Maastricht Kriteria, this is 60 per cent in Turkey, 33 per cent in Turkey, one quarter of the OECD average, and one third of the average of the European Union. In 2002, the GDP for interest costs of 43 per cent dropped to 11 per cent. The second parameter is the strong financial and banking system. Our banking sector is now very clear in comparison with the most powerful sectors in the world, especially developed countries. Although the legal limit is 8 per cent, even though the BDK target is 12 per cent, the capital efficiency rate is 15 per cent. The capital/source ratio was 36 per cent in 2002, while it doubled to 78 per cent in 2002. The total percentage of the following creditors is 3.4 per cent, one of the lowest in the world. With the flexible monetary policy and the immediate intervention of the Central Bank, even during these difficult testing periods, the size of fluctuations remained very limited. The Central Bank issued a statement Monday morning (July 18th) prior to the opening of the markets, sharing seven measures for the effective functioning of financial markets. Guaranteed to provide loans with zero interest, supply of unlimited liquidity and unlimited amount of deposits, transfer of electronic funds and electronic security transfers has provided confidence in the markets, guaranteeing that the system will be kept open until the process is completed. So there was no liquidity congestion, and our nation converted about 11 billion dollars' worth of currency into Turkish lira. As they stood firm against the political and military coup, our nation did not pass the economic coup. I want to clarify both issues in our economy that are sensitive and constantly on the agenda, the first one is current, and the second one is external debt. Cari reached the highest amount in 2011, 74.4 billion dollars, 32.2 billion dollars as of 2015. But we all know that in the economy, not the absolute value, but the ratios are important. So if we look at the GDP rate, it's negative 9 percent in 2011, and it's negative 4.5 percent in 2015. I'd like to remind you that the internationally accepted threshold is negative 5%. The external debt total was $398 billion at the end of 2015, while short-term foreign debt was 102 billion, long-term foreign debt was 296 billion. But again, we need to analyze these values as GDP ratios, or else there will be misleading results. For example, we say that the total foreign debt increased to $130 billion in 2002, while in 2015 it increased to $398 billion. But if we look at the proportion of external debt in the GDP, it was 56 per cent in 2002 and 55 per cent in 2015, so it actually went down. The second sensitive point in foreign debt is private sector debt, even short-term private sector debt. The debt, which was $43 billion in 2002, increased to $292 billion in 2015, and its share of illegal domestic product increased from 19 per cent to 41 per cent in 2015. In 2002, the private sector's short and long-term debts were 6 per cent and 13 per cent respectively, while the short-term debt rate was 13 per cent in 2015, while the long-term debt rate was 29 per cent in 2015. The short-term debt has increased by twofold, while the long-term debt has increased by about threefold, so the risk premium has been reduced and due to the trust in the market towards long-term debt. This performance allows Turkey's economy, which has suffered severe damage in the smallest crisis in the past, to survive much larger crises. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, what we need to do now is continue with our micro-focused structural reforms and strong democracy on solid macroeconomic foundations. Yes, we will continue our journey with the necessary arrangements, incentives, and support, as well as structural reforms. This bill also includes some support and incentives; it includes incentives, support and regulations for the real sector in the areas of culture, health, education, security, local governance, financial market and economics. The country, which has been exposed to political, military and economic coup attempts since 2013, has given the best response with its nation, its state, its media, its armed and security forces. I also condemn the indifferent international public from here. I wonder how universal human rights remain so silent under the democratic values of the Council of Europe. What is the definition of democracy, is the definition changing according to countries? I invite the whole world to have universal values, but without them, and without them, and I curse every kind of terror. He wishes that the laws we discussed at the General Assembly would be good for our nation, for our country to write political and economic epics, and for our nation, I thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0107par0023	Thank you, Mr. Günay. Ankara MP Bulent Kuşoglu will speak on behalf of him as the second speaker. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0108par0027	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. I made a promise on Bill 411, the bag on the law, on behalf of myself. You're tired this time of night, but I'll try to explain my views. The Plan and Budget Commission are working upstairs right now, there's a new offer, trying to produce it. Actually, there's been a new offer on what gave this bill its name, and we're dealing with it. After this, I'll go upstairs, and we'll continue our work on the commission. As I just said, the Plan and Budget Commission has been working very actively again lately, and we're trying to do something. You know, we've made a law on black money recently, we've brought in a bag of laws, we've arranged for individual retirement. We have a pardon law, by the way, and this is another bag of law, and an 80-point bag of law. Now, mainly, this bag is making economic and financial arrangements in the law, the government. In particular, after this coup attempt, some arrangements are being made in a state of panic. The economy is struggling to avoid a financial crisis, a financial crisis. But the truth is, I don't understand what the government is doing, what it's trying to do, what it's doing, I don't understand it clearly. On the one hand, he's making these arrangements, and on the other hand, he's trying to destroy the trust element in the economy -- trust is very important -- with the opposite arrangements. Now, it's hard to listen at this hour, let me tell you a story called Einstein: he's walking with a blind man, Einstein. After a while, Einstein said I wanted a lot of milk. The blind asks him: "What is milk??" he says, "It's milk is a white liquid. I know the fluid, but I understand the liquid, but what is that white?" How can Einstein describe it? White is the color of a swan bird. He says, "What is a swan bird?" The swan bird is a bowing bird, he says. I know the neck, but I don't understand how it bends. He's holding his arm, he's doing it straight. He's saying it's flat. He's bending it, he's bending it, he's saying it's twisted. I now understand the milk. Now, believe it or not, I'm in the Plans and Budget Commission -- that's what I know about these things, these bags. It really is. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Believe me, we're working on it upstairs, there was Mr. Minister of Economy in the morning, and he told me in a different way that the Minister of Finance came in and told me in a very different way. More or less -- I'll call it a design, but it's actually an offer -- the offer has changed completely; there's an anomaly like this. I mean, literally, I mean it. Now, the economy is in a delicate turn -- just now, Mrs. Emine told me -- there's a sensitivity that we all need to pay attention to, and Turkey shouldn't have a crisis. Turkey should not have a foreign currency crisis, a financial crisis in particular. We're already experiencing other crises, jobs, and other macro-economic crises. Now, you're looking at what's being done -- I've told you about individual retirement -- that's a 3/3 contribution per thousand, the change in individual retirement is 3 per thousand per year. It's worth thinking about if it's worth doing. We've arranged black money, an arrangement that could miss even the current hot money, an arrangement that could miss even the current hot money. In these 80 articles, there are amendments to the Constitution. Articles 12, 23 and 75 are clearly against the Constitution. Why do we do it now, why do we do it now? I mean, in the eyes of the world, it's not about trusting the markets, it's about putting markets in trouble. I mean, what's the point of doing all this? But it's being done, I'm afraid, it's impossible to understand. For example, the Central Bank is being played with the reescontends to ease the markets. Here, let's open a door that's been closed for years about the reescontructions of the Central Bank. Even the BDDK is not asked, it is not contacted by banks, it is brought straight to the truth. Downloading 3 signatures to 2. But all of this is done by asking questions, by taking opinions from the market, by giving confidence; unfortunately, there isn't. There's no way to tell. It's just been explained, there's trustee practice, there's the pick-up of mayors elected by the public. They have a very negative impact on the market, of course. I mean, if you were an investor, if you had money, could you come and invest it in a situation like this? There's a seizure of the city's estates. I mean, it's all been a pain in the ass. We all need to think about this. We're trying to evaluate this whole thing in the Plan and Budget Commission, believe me, we don't. There's one issue that's been especially reflected in the press recently, the 35th article, the open institutions for specialization, the privatisation has been opened. It's said that there's more than privatisation, but there's a building in the National Lottery, the National Lottery, that can sell that building according to its current legislation, but we can sell it in accordance with the State's Law of Reciprocity. If he turns it over to the Privatisation Administration, he saves it from the State Contraction Act, sells it free of contract. That means it's been made for someone, so it's an insecurity arrangement. What's it made of? It's impossible to understand. You know, there's a question mark on privatization that's even worse than that. There's trouble like this. There were 39 and 40th substances again, and we had a lot of difficulty first to understand, about certain devices that were not shiplike, but similar to the ship, there are ships to count them, and there are expirations made by government officials, which have been made earlier by government officials, which are an amnesty. That's not going to happen in the economy. Someone else entered that tender, made an offer under different circumstances, took it or didn't enter it. Now you're redesigning that. These are wrong, economic insecurities. I'm afraid that's what's being done. That's what's in these 80 articles. For example, we're bringing literature to the foundations, fine, but let's bring it with us to the professions, bring it to the rooms, bring it to the unions. Why don't we get it? If we're making a democratic arrangement, we're opening it to the foundations, let's open it up to them. No, we're not doing that. It's a pain in the ass. For example, the Ministry of Health has an app for public-private cooperation. The Constitutional Court has revoked your audit. We've brought in an arrangement that can be canceled, more or less. Why are we avoiding inspection? It's impossible to understand. The next time it's cancelled, we can bring in the outside capital with a public-private cooperation, much more expensive, or we can't bring in any more. The 75th article, the incentive arrangement, is very important, especially needed to be paid attention. In the project, in the business, it's encouraging. The government gives the Council of Ministers great authority. The Council of Ministers has been granted the removal of a number of taxes that must be imposed by law. The Council of Ministers is granted unlimited authority. It's not an incentive, it's an abuse. I want to draw your attention to that particular item. My friends have also stated that the provinces of Şırnak and Hakkari are very badly removed from being a province in a bad way. All of this, unfortunately, is the wrong apps, the apps that show that it's not a team effort. Unfortunately, economic management's Finance Ministry, the Ministry of Economy, the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy, has not been co-ordinated well together in other economic-related units. They need to be done more properly, done with a good team effort, and these arrangements should be brought here with more proper work, with a study between institutions. It's a lot harder to fix here. I'm afraid none of this has been taken care of. You'll see that much more clearly as we discuss it in terms of matter. I'm sorry, better things could be done in this environment. I hereby salute you all.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0109par0046	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Congressmans, we will now proceed with the question-answer process for 20 minutes. Ten minutes of this period are for you to ask questions, and the other ten are for the Minister to answer. We'll start with Mr. Tarhan. Here you are, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0110par0050	Thank you, Mr. President. In the media, because of the companies and executives arrested as part of the operations carried out after the coup attempt, the layoffs of most employees in public institutions without ties to the organisation have left these people and their families in a difficult position. What work is being done for the rights and victims of thousands of people who have already suffered from unemployment in our country?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0109par0052	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0111par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, Article 4 of this proposal states that the following temporary clause is added to the Law No. 6831. ▪ Interim matter: According to Article 93 of this Law, the third clause of this Law states that if the facility is a factory or a tradehouse under Law 6762 and there is no place for prosecution by the Public Prosecutor's Office... it can also be rented by the General Directorate for forty-nine years. • How many such facilities are there, how many are there? I mean, how many are there under this bill? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0112par0056	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0113par0057	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, after this coup attempt, you know, the most teachers have been massacred, and so we get calls over and over and over and over again, and the majority of the callers are wondering how to replace those who do these jobs and how to apply them in a way that's contractual, and what criteria are they going to have to come up with? Especially those with adequate points from the KPSS (KPSS) do not know where to apply because there is no enlightening information on the matter. We'd appreciate it if you could shed some light on that.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0112par0059	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0114par0060	Thank you. Minister, on the one hand, you're talking about democracy, and on the other hand, you're talking about social reconciliation, but you're definitely not being democratic about converting schools, and you're not taking the people's will into account. As you do in many schools throughout Turkey, many schools are doing the same in Bursa. I'll give you an example: Parents at Bahadir School in Karacabey, the Martyr School, even the younger children, even performed on a report card day. But somehow, the Ministry, the authorities there, stalled, here, sir, we investigate, we send inspectors, we examine....... 3000 signatures were collected. During the summer, the imam-gap sign was hung. When are you going to put an end to these signs?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0112par0062	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0115par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, with this bill, trade shares of private budgetary administrations and all assets can be sold. So shares in the Business Bank can also be sold, such as the Turkish Historical Institution and the Turkish Language Foundation. Is this not a betrayal of the heritage of Ataturk? Are you doing it in particular? You know, after the coup attempt, you understood about Ataturk, and you put his picture on your headquarters. How quickly did you give up? By selling these shares, you'll achieve a social compromise? By selling the assets of other institutions, are you thanking the nation by selling parts of Turkey? And my final question is, are you planning to privatise the Turkish Grand National Assembly?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0116par0066	Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0117par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, when you announced your government's State of Emergency Act, you said it was actually an ad for the state and not the public. Today, Diyarbakır Governorate has indefinitely banned all activities and activities in Diyarbakır. On the one hand, you're saying that the government is unconditional. You're trying to take away the people's municipalities by this law. And after that, you're still the same word? So did you bring this State of Emergency for the public, or did you bring it for the government? We still have people kidnapped and lost in our counties. Hursit Külter, still no word for the last eighty-two days. In the same way, we can't hear from a county manager in Ceylanpınar, what do you call them? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0118par0071	Mr. Stonedemir...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0119par0072	Thank you. Actually, I'd like to ask the Minister a question on behalf of the government. Özgür Gündem daily has been shut down today and 24 employees have been beaten and taken into custody. These days, the government talks heavily about democracy, human rights. I think the government should make a statement about this situation, and I demand that the House be informed of it.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0118par0074	Mr. Encu...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0120par0075	Thank you... Minister, the curfew in Şırnak has been under way for a hundred and fifty-eight days. It's been said that the operations have been over for 80 days. Why is this curfew still going on? Second: Our people who live in Uludere Beytüşşebap -- about 60,000 people -- are unable to use the Şırnak freeway. Those who want to use it spend hours and even six hours and seven hours there, laying down beds in the middle of the road, making that point. What's this about, public cruelty? I demand that this be explained. Also, what is the reason for the reduction of Şırnak from the province's status? I demand that this be explained as well. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0121par0080	Thank you. Mr. Irmez...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0122par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. We also have two questions for the government, Mr. Minister, especially about changing the province status of Şırnak and Hakkari. The first reason for Şırnak and Hakkari, who are two of the three counties you can't get out of, is one of the reasons why they can't expand their status as a geographical location, but is there anything in Turkey like Artvin Hopa, Bilecik Bozük, Bitlis Tatvan, Bozkale, Kırıklareli Lüleburgaz, and change the province's status? On the other hand, when we go to change the province status of both our provinces, the government...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0123par0087	Mr. Aydoğan...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0124par0088	I'm going to ask Mr. Secretary a question on behalf of the government. Today, our party made a motion by HDP to investigate the oppression and torture of prisons, but our motion was rejected by the ruling party on the grounds that there was no oppression or torture, but of course, it does not mean that there was no oppression or torture in prisons, which does not change that fact. In the past month, the prisoners who were transferred from Diyarbakır to Antalya from Ankara Sincan to Bolu Supposeda were tried to search naked in the prisons where they went, and the prisoners were subjected to coups and various tortures because they object. This has been delivered to me personally by their families. Now, of course, what we're asking of you is that the Justice Department...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0125par0093	Dear Purchu...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0126par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, we've had a lot of talks and talks about Roma in this House, but we haven't been able to reach the conclusion. The latest was a 9m-euro SIROMA project signed between the government and the European Union. Although he had completed his tenth month, he didn't report anything to the Roma, but about 70 per cent of the 9m-euro fund was divided into human resources. It was a project about the education fund, but unfortunately, our children still can't go to school; 2 percent of us finish high school, 4 percent of us finish college, and more than 50 percent of us can't finish primary school. Does the Ministry of National Education have any work or will it begin? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0127par0097	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0128par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Minister of National Education. You know, we started a charity campaign on July 15th. If only we hadn't started this charity campaign, our government is strong, knows how to help everyone. Because our executives, our local executives, are doing things that are not their business. For example, at the school where my wife works, bring us the receipts you helped. They write messages like that. Help is made for God, and no help is given to anyone, or to the principal, or to power. Can you explain that?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0127par0100	Mr. Secretary, please come in.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0129par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, it was the first question in which businessmen were arrested for the coup attempt and had no connection to that structure, and therefore those detained were victimised, and what kind of study was done about them. Of course, Turkey went through a very difficult time, saw a coup, we all suffered a coup. God forbid, if the coup had succeeded, what kind of dark tunnel Turkey would have been in... even the German Foreign Minister said Turkey had turned from the edge of the cliff. So, seeing what kind of measures Turkey must take... to protect our freedoms, to protect our rights, to protect democracy, must be taken. The rule of law may be that the state of emergency is a constitutional order, the Constitution itself. It is possible that any wrongdoing within the legal order can be corrected after a certain period of time, as long as we maintain democracy, law and Parliament. All our citizens must be sure of that. As a lawyer, I'm also saying that rights are delayed, but they'll always come true. Again, the question of Mr. Tanal is, how many facilities are there under this law? I will ask my friends, and I will answer it in writing. Another friend of mine said it was a coup. That's not the right term. Look, you've passed judgment on these suspended persons. What documents do they have? Where's he connected to? Who's he been in contact with? Where's it registered? Can such a judgment be made? We've already been hit because we came to July 15th with such prejudice. Look, securing security, securing security, guaranteeing our freedoms. There's got to be a freedom-security balance. So, rather than a general look, we act with the sensitivity of a jeweler's scale, knowing that everyone in the legal order will be our own brother, our own child, and we want to make sure that one tear doesn't burn in the skull. We are making an effort to do so, so I would like to say that the word is not true, that it is being used here unnecessarily. Instead of saying how we do it, we suspended our teachers, like some of our teachers said would be cut off. You know, we've announced that we're getting 15,000 contract teachers. So, where do you get contract teachers? There are announcements everywhere, nothing hidden in public. If you enter our ministry's website, it's an application for contract teaching, 11 pages, contract teaching, and an appointment announcement. What are their conditions here, what are their exams here, and what questions are they going to be asked here, so who can apply here, and here they're going to go to KPSS, if we're... behind here, we're really interested in getting licenses and merits into the teacher's staff. Let's say we get three teachers, five applied; their scores were 61, 62, 63, and the others 10 and 5. We don't take 10, we don't take 5, or let's say we choose between 60, 61, 62, 63. They score 91, 92, 93, 50 each. If we're going to get one, we're going to interview these three people. Now, when we take 93 spaces, we're going to say it's legit, but when we assign 91 spaces, you're going to say it's not true, it's not true. So, what are we waiting for with the interview, what are we aiming for? The teacher is a role model for students, you know. The future of Turkey is our young people, our students, and the future of the family, after their own pupil children, families forget themselves. Is it enough, therefore, to score a score that only those who would hand over their very valuable assets on the test? Everyone knows it's not enough. All right, so the serial killers are, like, really good at finishing college, and then maybe getting a high score, but can you hand your kid over to this? Will you give them the future of Turkey? You won't. So, what do you want, what do you want? Now, he's one of the things that's wanted in these people, and it's been explained again. What's he saying? Can he express himself? A teacher will be a role model for students. Can he tell you what he understands? Can he use body language? Can he be convincing? Well, can he get excited about it? Is there a leadership role? To know that, you have to do this interview. Oh, we'll need other psychotechnical issues, criteria, as well as the property. If you say so, let's bring him in. In order to put Turkey in a better position in the 21st century, all of us, these children, and this Turkey, we need to get to a good point in education, and the key element of education is teaching. How do we make the teacher's education better, starting with the teacher's purchase? Don't go in a good direction with your... Now, we certainly think that what we're doing is better than what we did before, but hopefully, with your contribution, it'll be better in a long time.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0130par0110	Get the interview jury from the opposition, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0129par0111	I mean, give me a law proposition, and if it does, why not?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0130par0112	I'll give it to you right away, sir.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0129par0113	We're fine, believe me.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0130par0114	It's a deal, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0129par0115	We are Turkey, one. Again, the question came when will you end the coup in the direction of the transformation of schools? And I'd like to say that there was a newspaper there today, and you probably saw it, and I'll say, "Republic Journal, the Imam-members remained empty." There was an expression there, if you've ever seen it. So somewhere they're wanted, they're not asked for imam-hating, they're asked for imam-hating. This is democracy, the request of the citizen. If you open an imam-hat where a citizen doesn't want you, you'll be a sign, schools will be empty. Therefore, it is our politicians' duty to fulfill a educational system and a preference in accordance with the request of the citizen. So, if no citizen or parent wants to -- Engin knows Mr. Altay, and he's given me a request -- believe me, we won't do anything without the request of a citizen, I'll make it very clear to you. But you have spoken of Karacabey, and I will know more about it from my friends, and I will tell you. Another issue: Of course, the comment has gone out, can you privatise the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation? It's not a question, it's not a question. Betraying the heritage of Ataturk? Okay? To inherit the heritage of Ataturk is to strengthen the Republic of Turkey, which he calls my greatest work. How will you strengthen it? Here, you don't hold hands, you don't borrow money from outside, you increase your people's income level, you increase the national income of the country, so if you're finally privatizing it, who you're privatizing it to, who you're privatizing it to, who you're privatizing it to. It's not like the privatized thing gets picked up here and goes anywhere else. You can see that many privatized institutions have contributed more to the Turkish economy. In some places, I even know that you should privatize our facilities. And therefore privatisation, not in the interest of a black, black, but in the interest of the public, so please keep an eye on these privatisations, and if we do it wrong, it's your job as the opposition here, look, you're not doing it right here, you're doing it wrong." Say it, but so far we're sure of what we're doing.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0131par0118	We're telling you right now, you're doing it wrong.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0129par0119	We haven't done it yet. You're saying there's prejudice. If, please, prejudice, we haven't done it yet, then people won't believe it. Another: we have declared a state of emergency to the state, not to the people.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0132par0121	Wait for 2071?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0133par0122	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0129par0123	It really was. Look, democratic seizures have been seen on all sides of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0134par0124	It's banned, Mr. Secretary, but it's forbidden.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0129par0125	Here, all the citizens have gone up to the thing, but you see what happened yesterday in Diyarbakir, two-year-olds are dying.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0135par0126	What's that got to do with anything? What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0136par0127	Congressmans, Mr. Secretary is responding, please...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0129par0128	Therefore, it is our duty to ensure the safety of the citizen. So I think it's appropriate for the bosses to take whatever measures necessary for this security.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0137par0129	This is the preparation of the trustee, Mr. Secretary; this is the preparation of the trustee.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0129par0130	Another thing, why was the Özgür Gündem closed? It was closed with a verdict. Of course, the press needs to be free, every idea needs to be expressed freely.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0137par0131	What verdict? A decree under the law...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0129par0132	But we also have to say that freedom of the press is never about encouraging terrorism; it's not about anyone who's the leader of a terrorist organization, who's an executive, writing a column in a newspaper. So you can't tell anyone in France that the DEASI terrorist organization is going to produce a newspaper and make Al-Bağdadi a columnist. Or let's say Al-Qaeda is going to produce a newspaper in Washington, and Aymen Al-Zevahiri is going to be a columnist. He won't believe it, they say it has nothing to do with freedom of the press. So let's all move forward with the freedom of the press, let's see all sorts of ideas spread, but the incentive of terrorism, the spread of... look, there's a newspaper over there, and I'll give it to you. Just don't let the mothers here cry, and let the mothers here cry. As if this violence or terror would spread throughout Turkey. You know better than I do. Again, another thing: hopefully, as soon as this happens in Şırnak, and on the other side east of Turkey, west of Turkey, and north of all of this... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, last but not least...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0138par0136	Mr. Secretary, let's give you one more minute.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0129par0137	We have a common reason to say, "What's a cause?" Does the government want something to lose votes for? He wouldn't. Would he want to do something that the citizen would object to? He doesn't do anything. He wants to please his fellow citizens, and what the citizen would say is true. At first, he does it, even though it seems to be a nuisance. Why? In two years, we will go before the people in three years; and if we have done wrong -- pardon me -- they will not support us; and if we have done right, they will say, "Thank you." We say that public services can be carried out efficiently and effectively at the country's level, depending on the well-watched changes in our country's social, cultural and economic situation, and that the distribution of property is in line with the time-changing conditions. The Article 126/nth article of the Constitution: (Turkey, in terms of the central administration institution, in terms of geography, economic conditions and the needs of public services...) For this reason, it has been decided that our two counties should be made more effective for our country and for public services to be carried out more effectively, for economic and social reasons, for public service to be better for citizens. So, again, a friend of ours asked me if I could apply it to Tatvan-Bitlis or somewhere else. We're not gonna do it, let's just say it. Well, another thing: is it because you didn't get the MP out of here and you're doing this?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0139par0141	Yeah, it's really...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0129par0142	It's not like that.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0140par0143	It's a hundred percent.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0129par0144	Well, isn't Cizre our district?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0141par0145	Yes, our county.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0129par0146	Isn't Highova our county?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0142par0147	That too, that too, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0129par0148	Isn't he part of that province again?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0143par0149	Two more ils, I'm sorry for your loss!
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0129par0150	So what I'm saying is that state institutions within the same province are being taken from one place to another.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0144par0151	Those provinces will come here.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0129par0152	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0145par0153	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I will submit to your votes to the amendments, but the number of meetings has been requested.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0146par0158	Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit04spe0145par0159	I will identify the names of our friends who have asked for attendance: Mr. Çağlar, Mr. Konca, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, Mr. Toğrul, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Baydemir, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Kürklü, Mr. Encu, Mr. Botan, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Acar Başaran, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Özsoy. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0145par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough attendance in the roll call before the vote to transfer to the Articles of the Law Bill 411. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We will resume the talks of Bill 411. The commission is here. The government is here. Congressmans, we will now begin the negotiations of section one. The first part covers the 1st and 28th article. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group on chapter one, Samsun MP Erhan will speak on behalf of Mr. Erhan. Congressmans, may I ask you to be quiet, please? Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0147par0021	Thank you. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, again, of course, a bag of law. We're done talking about the sadties of the bag law, but even though the government has promised, this bag has not given up its law habit. As he can't give up, the quality of each bag of law is a little lower, the quality of the bag is dropping every day. We started this law with 76 articles, then part of the National Entity Fund, section 11 was separated, normally it was supposed to fall to 65 articles, but 16 new substances were added in the Plan and Budget Commission, and the number of substances went up to 81, and with dozens of proposals, some parts of them were corrected. Thus, such habits, for once, reduce the quality of lawmaking in our country, make poor laws. And when the law is made, it's always in order. There are many problems between the state and the citizens, both between individuals and state institutions, related to how these laws are implemented. Therefore, the workload of the courts is increasing. So in a sense, as a nation, we do whatever it takes to tie our own feet, to shoot our own feet. Yeah, who's responsible for that? The government is responsible, of course. Now, for example, there's a law study going on upstairs in the Plan and Budget Commission. [[Noises]] Mr. President, it's very difficult to speak under these circumstances. Mr. President, please, Mr. Lawmakers, please... Here you go, Mr. Master. I mean, this roll call isn't really working, you know, Mr. President. I mean, at least there's five of them. It gives you more pleasure to talk to five people who listen, even if there are five. You can't really talk under these circumstances.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0148par0031	Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0147par0032	I mean, the law-making of lawmakers... look, the law doesn't concern the congressman; the bureaucrat's quality is down, the bureaucrat's not interested, the minister is missing. After that, you'll make law, you'll make law, and we'll rule the country well. Here's the country you run. [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] I mean, how many articles does the Minister of National Education have in this bag of laws, for God's sake? In 81 articles, how many articles does the Minister of National Education have? Minister of National Education, we respect him. RDC, that was added there. So it's not yours either, because there wasn't a single member of the Ministry of National Education, there was an NGO representative. Now, the Minister of National Education and I are negotiating a bag of laws, laws. Do you have the authority to accept my very right criticism here, or even the very right motion of our group, Mr. Secretary? No.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0149par0035	You bring the right one, I'll judge.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0147par0036	No, sir, will you? Because we live in the Plan and Budget Commission. Look, now upstairs, the Finance Minister has accepted how many of our motions because it was his responsibility. You know a right motion, you accept it. But the Minister of Labor and I are discussing the removal of Hakkari Province, the removal of Şırnak Province. What would the Minister of Labor say about that? No matter how accurate your proposals, your motions, the minister can't have the authority to say anything about this, so it's not possible because it's not his field. I'm sorry about something that's not about his field... but only the ministers come there, where we agree. We don't. He sits to say, "We don't." So the minister isn't interested, the congressman isn't interested, the bureaucrat isn't. Yeah, look at this Plan and Budget Commission -- I'm telling you this from the bottom of my heart -- come as an observer for the sake of God, look at the bureaucrats in the Plan and Budget Commission. You want information, no bureaucrats to inform. Yeah, ask the President of a Plan and Budget Commission how many people did he fire from there, brother, so that someone who knows might come here. How are we supposed to make this law and run this country? What kind of a job is that? No care, no precision, no sensitivity. Now, we're putting ourselves in the position of judgment, administratively. The judge has made a decision. Where is it here? Article 12 of the article "Kahinbey" is related to the article. The judge says: "This is what you're going to do. Here's a plot of allocation. These are the ones, I won't go into detail, where friends tell the motions. Now, we put it in place of judgment and say, "Here's how much money you get from them, and the price is paid. There's a land in Burdur County in the 4th or 4th article. A factory is built here in time for the forest field. It's been a abandoned factory for 25 years. After that, they go to court. The court says: "This is a forest area. " Now, there is a law against the land of the forest.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0150par0038	It's not. There's no forest.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0147par0039	Congressman, no problem at all. I mean, there was a forest back in the day.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0150par0040	No, not in time.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0151par0041	Yes, Bayram, I do.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0147par0042	I mean, don't let anyone put themselves in judgment. That's where the judgment is, and it says this is forest land. Now, first, you cut down the forest, you burn it down, after fifteen years: 'Ya, is there a forest here, brother, or do you call it forest land?' They all have forests in their past. Something contrary to the Constitution was tried there. We objected, we resisted, eventually the substance was drawn, and then, after that, it's being brought back here with another solution. I mean, there's something called the distinction of the people. So, the duty of law is separate, the duty of governance is separate, the duty of the judiciary is separate. I don't think it's right to make the kind of material that replaces judgment with ourselves. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, the issues are really coming up before they're studied. The electronic control system, what material was it here? The 21st article. Look, the bottom line is, it's said that if the authorities co-ordinated with the Security Directorate, if they give them their use, 30 per cent of the traffic tickets obtained from these municipalities would be transferred to them. Okay, good. Now, when this law is being passed -- it's probably being released in 2011, it's probably not too old -- have you done any analysis of the impact, how much will it come from here? I'm pretty sure I didn't do a 70 percent center, 30 percent city hall, whether or not it was a lot, and I'm just guessing, but I haven't seen any work here in a year, so I'm just saying that.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0152par0044	Now they want to reduce it to 5 percent.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0147par0045	Now, I'm saying this for another reason. Now, the law has been passed, and it's said that 30 percent falls to 5 percent. I asked at the Plan and Budget Commission, and I said, "How in God's name can you reduce something from 30 percent to 5 percent?" Yeah, I understand dropping from 30 percent to 25 percent, I understand turning from 30 percent to 35 percent, but you're lowering something down to one sixth. Why? Does it work when you drop it down to 1 in six? It's not working again, so the Finance Ministry, which doesn't work when writing 30 percent, didn't work when reducing it to 5 percent, probably 5 percent. So it says, "Here, let's give you 30 percent until we get the investments out, and then we'll give you 5 percent. Of course, there's screaming, there's investors, there's investors, there's investments, there's business. And it was said, that there were those who came into play, and they said that people who remembered had come in, that this had happened; and a motion was made; and let's raise it to ten hundred percent. Look, there's still no work. They're like this all the time, you know, like we say, from a citizen. The AKP government is working with demands of citizens!) It's not 10 percent, it's 15 percent. Let's make it 15 percent and it's 15 percent. How can you run a state like this? What kind of a job is that? How can you manage finances like this? Don't think the numbers are small, I'm just saying for the sake of the Army, it's an annual gross -- and now, there's an expansion situation -- 100 million dollars, one in the county, from this system. 81 of them -- average, bigger than the Army, smaller than the Army -- multiply this, you think about the number, 5 to 10 percent here. Of course, when the center does business without such work, the municipality does work without work. The centre gives 30 per cent to the municipality. And the municipality said to the investors, "Do it with a do-and-do." He said, "What are you going to do with the electronic system? I'll give you 15 percent." There's a score that's come up... Look, the company came to the chairman of the Plan and Budget Commission, where they told us that they were screaming when they came to 5 percent. We're really starting to make a lot of money here. Police departments, police departments in the county... Mr. Minister, look, without any control -- as they say, take this, take this, meet our needs. They started building buildings because there's a lot of money going on to you, let's see what we need, let's see what we need.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0153par0050	They got an Audi A8, A8.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0147par0051	Yeah, that's not gonna happen. How can you run a state like this? Yeah, what are you running? That's not gonna happen. Still no work. I mean, we're doing the work. As an opposition MP, I have a small number, this little, this little... we do a little work, we say, look, this is what comes in from here, this is what goes out. I mean, I'm sorry, nobody, but this way, government doesn't work like that. Now, there's one clause about foundation colleges. Foundation colleges like pitrak have been established. One college-- only 180 trillion pounds of college he's scamming, emptying out. I come to us and tell them what they told us there. It comes to a point where, of course, there's no control, there's nothing. Now, this isn't the congregation part, it's the shit out there anyway. I'm just saying this for non-communist colleges. 180 trillion liras is just one college... emptying it out. Of course, that's what happens when you don't set up a control system, if you don't run the government like a government. After that, sir, the children were depositing money. The children's deposits were confiscated before the teachers could get their hands on them, before the teacher's salary was paid. Is the problem being solved? The problem isn't working out. Right now, it's just that the job that's in a lot of crisis is partially resolved, but all the remaining problems are just as they are. That way, there's no government, no law enforcement. There's a lot more to be said, but we'll talk about that later. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0154par0055	Thank you, Mr. Master. İstanbul MP Bihlun Tamaylıgil will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Tamayligil.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0155par0059	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable lawmakers, yes, everyone is coming, and the first thing they say is, "Oh, that bag of law." Really, oh, that bag of law and, oh, that bag of law beyond the law. When he first came to us as a bill, when we started to see each other at the Plan Budget Commission, we were faced with an understanding of 37 separate forms of law. We're a lawmaker that we're all going to know about these 37 laws, even though there are different fellowship commissions in this House, and we're going to know all about internal affairs and public administration, and we're going to make the law by studying the economy very, very well, health-related, educational decisions. This quality of lawmaking here, by making the law, results in the fact that I don't actually, look, do the process management of public service within the rules and boundaries of law enforcement from us, really, very bad and expected quality. Can you imagine, just a few days ago, in a bag of laws, a bag made in the past, we're even replacing it with a new bag of legislation? Why? Because then again, our warnings, the logic of making such a law, which we said at the time, would not be the choice to make such a law. When we say it, my dear, it will be over by now. Let's speed it up. Look, these are waiting. I mean, the law is not made to correct the error that arises in response or in something. We're going through an extraordinary period, and with the logic of making a law here that doesn't show the visionary and strategic perspective, we never get a solution to the issues, we just patch up the bleeding wound, and we still continue to make the law with the same logic, the same choice. We have the Civil Charter, we have the Parliament's working Civil Code, and it has its basic definition of law. What's he saying? ▪ Gather the materials related to one another, about the same subject and many topics, which will bring the arrangements in their field together. For God's sake, with the determination of a burial decision, we're trying to run a process within the same law, where two are the economics, social, political, and the public's status, knowing that they're a province over the years. We're erasing the province, status, history, and all administrative records. Hakkarili, a woman like me, has a birthplace on a birth certificate; a person who writes "Hakkari" in the province of Hakkari, the district will not see Hakkari (the centre) with the new law. We are making a law that approves of even wiping the name of Hakkari (Hakkari) out of the birth certificate. A district and a province called Çölemekrik (Kölemek)! Dear friends, there's no sense in making a law without a thorough analysis of sociology, political, psychological, economic, every aspect of it. If we go with that logic, we'll come up with more, more, more, more, more choices that bring the law together that are unrelated. Now, when we get to the first part... it's a part where you put unrelated materials together and evaluate them. In this, as I said, our beginning is about burial licenses. Second: When you look at it, when you evaluate it in terms of importance, we make a decision about higher education institutions. Indeed, how many universities do we have. At the point where the decision to open the university, the foundation university, to brag about it, comes today, I run a university under the name of the coup attempt, as well as the decisions made in connection with the period of the coup attempt. We make laws to correct the search for a commercial path under the understanding called "The Time." Well, when we're doing this correction, we need to understand the white and the land, the right and the wrong, the emergence and the control of the reports, so this law has come here, we're going to correct the current situation, but we also need to understand the need to have an arrangement and a function on the level of control and reporting of the universities in the coming period. Look, for him, I'm calling strategic and visionary living, and I'm trying to say that for him, there has to be a logical law that can solve problems that can arise. On the other hand, when we look at it, we give the Central Bank a power, or rather, beyond authority, that the Central Bank has an application called the reescort loans. History works in ways that don't repeat mistakes if they're learned. But today, when you look at it, from 1980 to 1990, many of my friends -- I can't explain the problems caused by the implementation of the Federal Bank's reescont credits -- because I don't have time. Later, because of the painting that these problems have produced, the reescontract loans have turned into incentives, but since then, loan mechanisms, crediting mechanisms and collateral mechanisms under the EXIMBANK roof are now being changed, and they say, "Let a two-signed security system be created instead of signing 3 signatures." Beyond that, it's also very important, that the amount of use of this kind of loan has been expanded before. Look, at this time, we have to carefully calculate the impact of practices on economic policies when we are in a balance that is moving on ice, on certain risks in terms of both domestic and domestic economic balances. It's also a fact that if you go over a different aspect of monetary policy, it has to be passed through this filter again, without a good assessment of what the consequences will be. On the other hand, what's in this bag again? Two public administrations have been seized for security reasons, and, frankly, it has to be confiscated. Now, you see, changing hands between administrations, changing resources, property, altitude rights is a law. When we look at the 30th article of the Legislative Law, it is revealed for obvious and specific reasons and reasons why it will take place. Now, if you make a law again that I'm going to solve them with certain reactions, then if you move the lines that are drawn in the legal infrastructure that work, and you start to remove those nails, then the balance will be broken. This destabilisation must be carried out, considering the fact that we're living. Look, we cannot give up the basic principles of the Constitution when making the law. One of the most important things is that we are a state of law; another important constitutional structure is that judicial, executive, and law do not interfere in the field of one another. If we, by making laws here, interfere with judicial decisions or practices, and view ourselves above the decisions made by the judiciary within these laws and make some arrangements, the principle of the state being a state of law will be completely eliminated. When you look at it today, both the IMF and the OECD are reviewing economic data on Turkey, as they evaluate information, it says that they are also reviewing the delicate balances of democracy, law, state functioning in Turkey. Now, after all the trouble we've been through, without neglect of the state of law, with the sensitivity to fulfill his requirements... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And we have to make the law with that sensitivity, but 75 comes up to 81, and when you look at it with the casualties in it, we don't make a proper living with a bag of laws, and we don't have to worry about anyone who expects a solution from us. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0156par0074	Thank you, Mr. Tamayligil. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İzmir MP Ertugrul Kürkcı will speak. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0157par0078	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a pledge on the first part of this bill on behalf of our group. But I don't intend to enter the technicality of this bill. Basically, there's a very solid future of Turkey that he's drawn for us, along with the first part of this law and other parts of it. We would like to express our concerns, objections, and alternatives about this future Turkey. So this is my fifth year in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and we've been saying for five years that we can't legislatures, but the truth is that as long as Turkey's National Assembly has practice of legislation, the Justice and Development Party will be the majority of parliament, the bag of laws. We see this truth as a new regime practice, like the President's doing the presidential work using unsubstantiated powers, the government entering into the field of justice and law using unsubstantiated powers. Let's not get carried away. Turkey is now on its way to an autocracy run by orders, and the practice of living is appropriate for it. When we look at this bill, we see that a number of key points in the future for Turkey are underlined. The first is that we face the marketing of public space, in public space, with a perspective that virtually no activity will be left with a service centre, which is actually not for profit. We are faced with a law that provides infinite ease for the return of few public assets to the market. Second: the logic of measures towards the rapid transformation of assets, such as air, water, land, urban land, mera, meadow, forest, which is not one of us, which belongs to all of us, and should be managed by the government in the name of all of us. The government's claim against one is to rule against the ground of the centre and to rule as a concrete instrument of all this. I see, when I evaluate the Prime Minister's approaches to the laws of law, which, in fact, have been extraordinary, he will continue his habit of running Turkey with laws under the law, because this is actually the most important tool of bypassing Parliament. But from these relatively abstract explanations, when we turn our face to the concrete, we face two of the most important issues. One is the fact that Turkey is now considered illegitimate, that the political, cultural, social and existential forms of existence that exist are being reset against the central state, in which the Kurdish people continue to fight for their rights, whether it is peaceful or peaceful. This opens the door to a different practice of local government in Turkey. The gate to municipalization has already been opened. Of course, when this is handled on its own, we may wonder if it opens the door to a legal debate, but it also opens the door to a very different discussion. Turkey is one of the founding member states of the Council of Europe, and its main commitment on its return to the Council of Europe in 2004 was to re-organise local governments according to the European Convention on Autonomies. Turkey has completely waived its commitment. This shows that Turkey has a tendency to abandon its relations with the Council of Europe and then with the European Union, given the debate on the return of the execution. We're not in love with any continent or any unit. Turkey, well, is a state that has always had the authority to review its alliances, its troops and international relations. But now, the constitutional power, the constitutional power, is to fall behind these constitutional powers of agreements, to withdraw behind them, in fact, not only from Europe, but also from the norms of the legal state, promises to lead Turkey directly to the truth. This bill is a concrete statement of this promise. This means the resetting of the Kurdish people's struggle, the total abandonment of local governments to the central state, the completion of the plan for the collapse that has been under way since July 2015, in the area of political and local governance. Thus, this marks the future of a Turkey that carries us directly into a war formation. We can't accept this, we can't accept that we live in a war order, we can't let the Kurdish people and the other oppressed and denied rights be removed from their rights without turning back. Therefore, resisting this law is not a technical issue, it is also a historical and political issue. We're against it. In practice, when we look at the practice of the same regime in the field of freedom of thought, in the field of freedom of expression, we see a pattern of consistent deviations. The fact that Özgür Gündem newspaper is still closed temporarily by an unknown court order, which has not been delivered to the newspaper today, and then is a clear indication of where we are being dragged into the ground and taken into custody in terms of freedom of expression as a result of an incredible Special Operations attack on the newspaper. I'm a friend of yours who started working in that newspaper the day the Özgür Gündem newspaper was founded. My idea is that you can have all kinds of discussions about the newspaper's line, quality, publishing, but it would be inappropriate to have this discussion. Özgür Gündem has the right to exist, and Özgür Gündem is also a Turnusol paper for freedom of speech, freedom of press, freedom of thought in Turkey. If there is Özgür Gündem, if it is open, if it is working, there is a relative relief in democracy and freedoms in Turkey; if Özgür Gündem has been oppressed, Özgür Gündem has been silenced, then we have reached a point where we can no longer talk about democracy and freedoms in Turkey. This is the practice of Tansu Piller; this is the practice of Turgut Özal; this is the practice of ANASOL-D; this is now an AK PRITI practice. Look at Özgür Gündem, set your position. If you're putting Özgür Gündem writers and publishers in prison, then you're leaning towards a totalitarian regime, if you're freeing them, then you're looking for a new balance between you and the freedoms. That was the first five years of the Justice and Development Party, not the last ten years. So, my dear friends, this is a consistent series of violations that now offer us this perspective through this bill: Turkey is moving towards a totalitarian regime. The inspection mechanisms are all out of control. Parliament is no longer a control mechanism. Adeta says to the citizens of the state, if you want to rebel, rebel, and let's see how tall you are. And I say, part of this community, as one of the citizens: If you're thinking about going back to the 1990s, if you're thinking about creating a Turkey like that, then remember the 1990s tradition of fighting for human rights, the 1990s tradition of Kurdish freedom fighting, the 1990s struggle for freedom of labor, tremble, and come to your senses.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0158par0091	Members of parliament, the first speaker on behalf of him will be Mr. Ergun Taşçi of the Army National Guard. Here you go, Mr. Stoneman.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0159par0094	Mr. President, I've made a commitment to support investments on Projects, to change the two boroughs, and to make changes to certain laws and laws. I salute the High Council. Congressmans, with the problems that have arisen in practice and the various demands of our citizens, our government will try to explain to you on the main issues of the changes that have given positive contribution to the majority of the community, which I have now taken a commitment to. The first, with the amendment to income tax law 193, the exception that has already been granted to private elementary schools during the five taxation periods has also been applied to private day care centres, and the goal is to increase women's employment, and it is an arrangement that will contribute to the growth of healthy generations. The second significant change in the design's content: the cost of increasing the economic value of real estate, heat insulation and energy savings, will be downloaded from the tax matrix by this arrangement, thus encouraging the heat insulation of buildings, roughly 25 per cent to 50 per cent of the fuel savings. Again, with the amendment to the Central Bank Law, the Central Bank will be authorized to regulate the types of commercial bonds and other matters related to implementation, which will be accepted into reescont and advance under the condition of carrying two signatures, thus setting limits, according to the highest limits and loan types of loans, under the principles of monetary policy. Again, with the amendment to the ECHR Law, the term of the most three-member vice presidents elected from the university's monthly professors will end when the chancellor and the rector change. Again, an important part of the amendments to the first 28th article of the law: the amendment to the Law on Protection of Culture and Nature, 2863, has been made to ensure that natural status and natural assets are passed to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, while the protection, practice and control office is thus resolved by unauthorized interference in places that have not been established. Again, the mandates for drafting, ratification of management plans for the development of administrative capacity are set by this law, and the Ministry of Culture and Tourism is authorized to prepare and prepare the management plan. Again, the bill will be carried out by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, free of charge of projects and implementation for restoration of non-responsive cultural assets that need to be maintained in private property, where public order and security have been disrupted, cut down, or where natural disasters occur. For those whose project and practical work are not possible within a fiscal year, there will be a widespread load of future years in which they will not be able to complete. Again, about TEDESS, which Erhan Bey has just expressed... He told me about the military province, and I want to talk about it. TEDES: With the 2011 law passed, we review the situation of a beautiful arrangement that regulates traffic patterns in Turkey and most importantly ensures the safety of people, maintaining a 10% rate in the municipalities' own operating areas, setting 30 percent in the arrangement for the share of revenues to 15 per cent. Again, if the municipality establishes and maintains its own business, the 30 per cent rate continues. Again, there are changes in the Publicisation Act. Because we have very little time, one of the most important clauses here is that the Constitutional Court has decided to terminate the development of public service in the implementation zoning plan, which is legally unprofitable, in five years' time. The regulation that prevents the right to a person's property from being constrained in the event that they are to be issued and not to be executed. In fact, when time is better explained, it's a very important law that our citizens are waiting for. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, when the entire bill is examined, I wish that this law, which speaks to every part of society, should be good for our nation, I offer my respects.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0160par0108	Thank you, Mr. Stoneman. On behalf of the person, in the second place, Mr Ahmet Yıldırım will speak. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0161par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, on behalf of the government, Mr. Secretary, I would like to express my opinion on the higher education of the 14th Article of the bag law, and I would like to explain an example of Dicle University based on an experience. Now, since the end of the term of the vice-principals in higher education institutions, especially with the chancellor, probably after the July 15 coup, came to you with a parallel structure, which is organized in universities, as a precautionary measure, and let me say this, Mr. Minister, through the history of the republic, that universities have never been free. It's not just limited to your time of power, it's never been beyond the precious work of our universities, limited universities and limited universities based on free thinking, the universal principles of science. However, in 2008, Abdullah Gul, Mr. President, was a one-year President, and in 2008 he was to be appointed president of 30 universities. Because the election doesn't make much sense, the election isn't about the chancellor, it's about the candidates for the appointment. President Ayşegül Jale Sarac, who was arrested at Dicle University about 25 days ago, received only 15 per cent of the votes at the university, and was ranked fourth in the university elections. No one in the university expected that Mrs. Jale would be appointed, not the first, but the second, or one of the first three. When the president's appointments were announced, with the government's special effort, the government's alleged member or member of the organisation is being judged because the Rector is appointed and has come to a position that it does not deserve because the university professors have no will. Until last year, 21 years, I worked as an assistant and professor at this university along with my fellow professor Mahmut Toğrul. And we said that we would never accept it, that we would continue our democratic actions and activities against it all the time, but we told Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who came to the academic year's opening of that year, that our protests were wrong because he was assigned to the city, to fight against them, if I may say so. It's not fair and unfair that we haven't been questioned, and thankfully, we've never given in to their pressures. But there's been a tremendous staffing, faculty departments. We've dealt with which faculty will be handed over to the 40th Hodjas of the Nursian community, which we've dealt with, which we've delivered to, and the investigations we've had in this sense, the administrative investigations we've seen, the mobbings, the pressures we've seen, eventually arrived today, and especially before the July 15th coup, especially after 17-25 December 2013, our actions have increased that there's already been a minister assigned to this university, but Rector Hanım has solved the PIN code of political power, and from that day on, she has covered her head, covering her head 20 days from 17-25 December 25th to 25th, and has taken the path of power. In fact, in this case, the government rejected all our demands, our criticisms, our petitions, our objections, without realizing that there was an injustice and insult to both the headscarf and the spiritual world. The Executive Board has never done any work, and the Board of Control has never been to Dicle University. Now, let me tell you the last thing about the administration, along with its deputies, along with the vice president, the vice president in charge of staff work, was the only one left with the effective law of regret. Madam President and the other vice presidents have been arrested. However, the vice president, who has the most share in appointments and staffing, is now out there. Well, maybe because he turned in his friends who had less shares than he did, the University of Dicle is still the same. I'm afraid we can't hope too much to repair the destruction that has been created in these eight years if it's been thirty years. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0162par0119	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Congressmans, we will now proceed with the question-answer process for 15 minutes. Half of that time belongs to the MPs to ask questions, and the other half to the Minister to answer questions. Mr. Kayishoglu, we'll start with you. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0163par0123	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, have there been any staff for disabled teachers among the appointed teachers? How many disabled teachers are you thinking of getting? Second: There is also a serious problem with the Allecity Law. In Burma, for example, in two villages, in Karacabey Hurriyet and Danishment villages, in the 1950s, in 1960s the villagers themselves cut their throats and took loans from the bank and left it to the common use of the village. Now, when they go to city hall with the All City Law, the municipalities sell it, of course, and the villagers are very seriously disturbed because their ancestors took their grandparents with their sweat. Do you also think you can come up with a solution for -- I think there's a problem in 28 villages around here? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0164par0127	Thank you. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0165par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, special education support for students who will study in private schools under Law 5580 began in 2014-2015. The number, then, went on to be 230 grand last year. This year it's said to be 75,000. Shouldn't this number be reduced or increased? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0166par0132	Mr. Turkmen...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0167par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the 2010 KPSS exam has been canceled. What do you intend to do about those who have been appointed on the basis of this test, in 2010, and later, when the KPSS test has been cancelled? What will happen to those assigned to the test who cheat and steal questions? So what do you intend to do about those who are victimised and who have not been appointed even though they have received high marks on the exam? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0168par0136	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0169par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, in the curriculum of these schools, the art course was four hours a week in our time, and it also included a good writing lesson. Right now, in this curriculum, the weekly -- as far as I know, as far as we're concerned -- is down to an hour. Don't you think you could increase it? Two: Philosophy classes were four hours a week in our time again. It's about philosophy, one hour a week in high school: logic class, for example, it's called suspended. About that, don't you think we should increase them? On another subject: The municipality of Hakkari is also called Desertemeric, under Article 78 of the bill. Why? Because you made a county? Hakkari could have stayed. In the same way, the name of Şırnak Municipality will be called Noah, the district of Noah. He could have been called that again. We don't understand the logic of changing these names, the motive. And at the same time...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0170par0143	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0171par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, with the State of Emergency law following the coup attempt, the number of victims in the educational world in particular increases rapidly every day. The coupters, of course, will receive the necessary punishment, but like troll fishing at sea, whoever there is, students, guardians, teachers, schools are being ignored or punished collectively. Imagine a school with 5,6,000 students, 1,000-2. He has a thousand teachers, one of the trustees' delegation, and the whole school is being punished and left alone. Do you have any serious work done on these? In particular, apart from the coupgers, when will the political authorities be punished, when will they be followed? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0172par0148	Mr. Dogan...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0173par0149	How long has the coup d'état been assigned by the coup d'états to fake Alevi-Sunni associations founded by the coup d'états to fuel the conflict, to distort the Aleki representation, and to maintain the Aleki assimilation and shut down after July 15th? And I'd like information on the amount of cash.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0172par0150	Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0174par0151	Mr. Secretary, when you were just answering questions, you said some unfortunate things about the Özgür Gündem newspaper. However, as Voltaire said centuries ago, you may not feel the same way, but we really need to take the risk of defending the freedom to defend the thoughts of others. For example, Akit, Star is not even a newspaper to me, but I would never want them to be shut down. I'd like to ask you: how can a cartoonist be taken into custody with his head torn off? Doğan Beauty was taken into custody like this today. My colleague Eren Keskin, and my journalist friend Fíz Koçali, were also broken into their homes. Do you think the thought is a weapon? Will there be any sanction against those who do these treatments? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0175par0154	Mr. Akdoğan...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0176par0155	Mr. President, thank you. We especially want to point out that we condemn the pressure against Özgür Gündem. Mr. Secretary, in particular, about Hakkari and Şırnak, about the change of name and the lowering status of the provinces, your -- Mr. President talks about the will of the people -- did you go to the people in Haqari, or to the people in Şırnak, or have you had any contact with the NGOs there? In this regard, while we were on the Commission, the Department of Labor and Social Security came and briefed us. Indeed, there was no situation that would convince both the HDP and the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) and the People's Party (CHP). Why did you flee from the people there, and why did you wrong yourselves to get such information from the NGOs and NGOs? Would you explain to us the reason for that?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0177par0158	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0178par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you're making a province of Cizre and Yüksekova. Do it, thank you, we have no objection, and that would be fine. You're taking Hakkari and Şırnak out of the province. For God's sake, what are you going to say to the citizen when you get there? How will you get there? Put yourself in their shoes for a moment, empathize. Your province, your reputation, your honor, everything; has a team, tradition, everything. In one sentence, you're saying, "I've got you out of the loop, period." Yeah, you don't have the right to do that. It doesn't bring us peace, it doesn't bring us brotherhood; it makes us other, it makes us more polar, it creates new victims, it fuels hatred and hatred for the state. Give it up. Not 81 cities, but 83 cities, so what? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0179par0163	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please come in.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0180par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. The Alevi-Sunni Associations were established artificially to fuel the conflict or dissolution of Alevi-Sunni. He said, "Can you provide a transcript of the allocations and assistance made to these associations?" I'll ask the Home Office to take this and take it to Mr. Dogan. Another question is about Özgür Gündem. Really, criticism is possible, it's the necessity of democracy. In fact, any criticism is possible. Criticism certainly leads to development, freedom, and it must happen. It's one hundred percent for those who aren't criticized to make mistakes, but it's less likely for those who are criticized to make mistakes. Two: One idea, one opinion may not fit us one-on-one. That's exactly what I'll do. I don't need it, and I don't want it to fit. It goes against man's nature, against his nature. So even things coming out of the tornado aren't 100 percent the same - 99.9 percent - there's a difference. Besides, look, not even a tiny fingerprint -- I don't know how many square inches or square inches -- looks like the other one in all these areas. I mean, it's the nature of a person to think differently, to say differently. There's nothing wrong with that. Two: There is no legal side, no defense, in the state of the law, when they behave in such a way as this, in a hurtful way, in such a way, against human honor, against Eren Keskin. Therefore, a court can make a decision to close; it can make it right, it can give it wrong; it can be all within the order of the law. We've seen how many court-ordered people we've seen today, we've seen that those decisions are wrong. Again, it's a decision made by institutions about newspapers; it can be wrong, it can be true, but we say, "We're in freedom all the way, but no one should encourage violence." Oh, did he make this paper or not? And here -- I've seen exceptions, but -- the court will explain the verdict, why it closed. Well, based on that motive, I'm sure something will turn up. Again, another thing is an offer, if the name of the righteous should remain Hakkari. Well, when you come up with an offer on this, you have to make sure that that offer is changed by both the Commission and the government here, a better solution with a common mind... you have to live by tradition, culture. The name Hakkari must not be eliminated. I think we can do better with the motions. Another friend of mine says, "You're shutting down schools, so it's a total punishment." So we took a hit. This coup is the greatest attack on democratic order. There's no greater attack than this. Well, well, in order to avoid such an attack on the democratic order again, certain measures must be taken. Here's what's done, because of those measures, so there won't be another attack on this nation's democratic will, democratic order, freedom. We want all of this country, 79 million, our citizens, no one to be victims. Believe me, we want to look at it empathically. So don't do to others what you don't want to be done to yourself. Ask yourself what you want for others, which is the basic will. And we're trying to make the least possible mistake here, but I don't think a generalization, a total punishment thing is right. Students in closed schools paid for it, now they come to public schools, we'll teach them all without money. There were nearly 140,000 students; nearly 60,000 came to public schools, nearly 20,000 went to other private schools, and almost 60,000 are waiting. So, we want no one to be a victim of this process, but we've been through a coup, so... what are we supposed to do? I know all your criticism about this -- my brothers, my friends, my congressman's friends. If we've done something wrong, we'll fix it, and I'm telling the guys. But we have to explain why we made this decision, and why we have to explain it one by one, and we've done so, based on this information, we've made this decision. We hope -- I think we've made the right decision -- that our friends will agree when they see it. Support for private education in private schools... of course, Turkey also has an economic situation. There are demands, but considering the budget, we expect both the amount of support and the number of students to support, including the economic situation. Another disabled teacher... we've just appointed 500 teachers, maybe not even a month in the last month. In fact, it was 250, and then at the request of our MPs, let's increase the number of teachers who were suspended. It was said, "We went up to 500, we went up to 250, and we appointed 498 people on that assignment in the last month." There are demands like that again, I'll take a look at it again. Another, because of the Metropolitan City Law, is now in 28 villages... and is no longer called "köy" (now), perhaps it is called "mahalle" (also known as "Mahalle"). That's where this village is, it's not appropriate for municipalities to sell joint places belonging to its corporate personality, it's disturbing the citizen. I'll tell the Ministry of Interior about this -- it's Bursa Metropolitan Municipality -- to the Bursa Metropolitan Municipality, again.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0181par0176	Mr. Secretary, you didn't answer my question.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0180par0177	Yes, which one is it?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0181par0178	Have you asked the people and the NGOs about Hakkari (Hakkari) or Şırnak? Because even though we insisted on asking at the Commission, there was no answer. We saw the same thing in you.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0180par0179	I think they're pleased when you go to the people in Cizre, I think people are pleased when you go to Turkey. Surely the move of the city centre to Susovaya without victimizing Hakkari.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0181par0180	Did you ask Hakkari?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0180par0181	We have a zeal, a work in order to raise the living standards of the people in Cizre to the very highest level, without being victimised. The airport is in Cizre, the airport is in Turkey, where transportation is much better than anywhere else.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0182par0182	Then why did you build the university in Şırnak?
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0180par0183	There was 76 universities when we arrived, and then we wanted to...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0182par0184	It's still under construction, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0183par0185	Congressmans, Mr. Secretary is responding. Please...
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0180par0186	Look, free thinking goes with all universities. We go to our citizen's foot to give every service -- including education services, and university education services -- in the best possible way. We founded this university in Hakkari, before we founded this university in Şırnak. Therefore, if a citizen should demand and the need is needed, I say that a university will be opened in Cizre, a university will be opened in Turkey, and I thank you for giving us this opportunity to explain these questions to our great Assembly.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit05spe0183par0188	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the talks on chapter one are complete. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-08-16sit06spe0183par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 125th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 411. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Members of parliament, since there is nothing more to discuss on our agenda today, it is now 14 p.m. on Wednesday (August 17th 2016) to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00, saying good night to all the MPs and our colleagues.
