tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 16th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Şanlıurfa MP Kemalettin Yilmaztekin, who asked for a statement about the children who were murdered from Aleppo to Musul. Here you are, Mr. Yilmaztekin.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are the greatest victims of years of relentless war around us, unfortunately, the unfortunate children of the Middle East, who are too old to even comprehend the trauma they've experienced. Sadly, the atrocities, which everyone closes their eyes, block their ears, turn their backs, and move rapidly towards becoming the blackest stain in the history of the world, live right next to our borders. My person, many of our party's officials, and in the highest rank, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. President have expressed a key issue in many of the talks. This issue is that after the Ottomans, the world's justice mechanism is mortgaged under the name of the United Nations, the world's wrong to abandon persecution. Why do we have to ask Aleppo from Musul to Kabul from Bosnia and Kabul about these conflicts in the Islamic world? Why do we have to ask why is it that geography is always Islamic geography, where blood has not stopped over the years? Can we be a great state, thousands of miles away, without asking why we remain foreign and indifferent for years to the land just outside our borders, where governments are running satellite states? Dear MPs, I assure you that if travel events had been successful in the attempted December 17th-25th coup attempt and the July 15th invasion attempt, our fate would have been the same with the land that was torn out of the Ottomans and drowned a hundred years ago. If Turkey's recent systematic attacks had reached its goal, the process that began with the fall of the Ottomans would have been a success for someone. While the games on the Ottoman land are no different from each other, it is not possible for us to plan independently from this land today. They want to drown the future of Turkey, Syria, Iraq, Egypt, and many countries, and it's only futile for us to act on our own interests alone. If they want to crown the system they set up in 1915 today with the destruction of Turkey, we have no choice but to reverse the system that was established in 1915. Just as they are bound to a broken, broken Turkey, we must unite and rise to honor the oppressed who have given us hope. We have to fight until the children who were slaughtered from Mosul to Aleppo are no better than a child whose nose bleeds in Europe and all hell breaks loose. Today, just to feel sorry for what is happening around us, to speak of human rights and freedoms, is not enough to stop Umran's flowing blood, nor to remove human shame on our shores like a Aylan doll. The children of this geography do not deserve to be killed one day in Aleppoce by a dictator's chemical attack, another day in Musul, Kerkuk and Aleppo, with the freedom operations of an apostle of democracy. Did you have breakfast when you told her about her father's death, who had forgotten her name because of the shock of her shock? That little girl with tears in her eyes, when asked, needs the justice we have longed for since the Ottomans, not the claim that someone wants to build on this land. Today, those who are trying to turn the Islamic world against each other by smearing blood on Islamic geography, those who can't get enough of the blood flowing in our region have no place to sleep. The people of this geography need to understand that the issue is no longer racial and sectarian, that they must merge and form a wholeness. Aylan Kurdi was a Kurdish Syrian immigrant. The Umran baby was the child of a Sunni Muslim family; another child was the Crusher, the Shia. When the enemy's bullet doesn't care who's what, it's the self-fighting of those who live in this geography that will lead to irreparable errors. As I end my words with these thoughts, I'd like to remind his esteemed representatives and the public that we shouldn't ordinaryize persecution with the images of our children who were murdered on social media, and that this would only make murderers happy and have to be sensitive about it. He says that we must never forget that only Muslims and oppressed children were killed and that the Ottomans, who used the power of every murdered child not to oppress, but to ensure justice, had hope in Turkey, I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0003par0016	Thank you, Mr. Yilmakin. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Bitlis MP Mizgin Irgat, who wants to speak about university problems, arrests and detentions. Here you go, Mr. Irgat.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0004par0021	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. Yes, in fact, the issue of my non-responsive speech is the injustices at the university, the problems of students and educators and mayors, and, of course, arrests and detentions that we often face. When we look at Germany of the 1930s, it is known that the academics were the ones who were attacked at that time. So, the home of science, the building of science, the academics who actually prepared a future with their students, was attacked, murdered, and even written on the history stage as a dark page, where they were burned in the library by their colleagues, who were close to the Nazis. Looking at today, we see academics, students who have been put into prisons in Turkey of 2016, students who have been expelled from secondary schools, high schools, universities, unfairly, unlawfully and without a court order. With our co-chairs, Hakeza, mayor and co-chairing the world's standards to a certain level, our mayors are now in prisons, symbolising the most modern, democratic, interspecies equality, and each morning a HDP DBP friend, a group of our friends, is being taken into custody unfairly, unlawfully, and thrown into prisons. A close example is that 42 students at Isparta Süleyman Demirel University were expelled from school by the school board because they were protesting the massacre in Roboski, and that is to say, the result of the investigation was not expected in the administrative court on grounds of the State of Emergency -- without a decision to march -- have been victimised by about 50 kilometers of students. We're talking about a loss that's now being exported, no explanation for themselves, which, given their bread, jobs, and families, has reached 100,000. There's a government that has to give us an answer to all of this, but unfortunately, we haven't heard a single review from government officials, lawmakers, from lawmakers, until now, a single statement. The passports of lawmakers are being seized unfairly, unlawfully. So the freedom of travel, the rights of the law that have been earned over the years through many battles, are one by one. What we've been taught in schools is that the State of Emergency is only in effect on matters that are within the scope of the State of Emergency and will only be able to achieve operations. But today we're looking at a state of emergency regime that has become the regime of a country. Adeta Turkey's Grand National Assembly, parliamentary regime, democratic system bypassed. At this moment, in Kandira Prison, Diyarbakır, the Diyarbakır Metropolitan Co-Chairs and KJA spokesman who have been unjustly arrested and exiled to Kandıra have been cut off at the entrance of Kandıra. One must account for this fear, for the explanation of this fear. So you arrest them, you banish them, and you can't even tolerate public visits. So they've done good work, which means they're doing great things that scare you so much that you're creating so much damage, you're shutting down the press, you're shutting down JINHA, you're shutting down the DIHA, you're going out of the country, you're trying to stop the diplomatic work of our foreign relations commission. There's a reason for all this: the AKP government is the fear of power. Just as Germany of the 1930s is in history, what we have experienced today will be history. We're going down in history right now. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With our talks, with this stance, we say that this process will be a prisoner in history, and we express from this platform the immediate removal of the victims. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0005par0031	Thank you, Mr. Irgat. The third non-responsibility statement belongs to Bilecik MP Yaşar Kuruzun, who asked for a statement on the amendment to the Convention of Celebrations in the Days of Independence and Ataturk Days. Here you go, Mr. Charter.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0006par0036	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book promise to change the Bajram Charter, which was published last week in the Official Gazette, just before Republic Day. I salute you all. Dear friends, this year we celebrated the 93rd anniversary of our republic's announcement. Unfortunately, there were unpleasant images that did not fall into the spirit of the republic and its principles. First, a fear was created to prevent our people from attending the ceremonies; not enough, the roads and main streets leading to the Memorial are blocked by trucks by Ankara Metropolitan Municipality; not enough, police barricades were set up, but our citizens could not be prevented from attending the celebrations despite all obstacles. These obstacles strengthened the love of Ataturk and the love of the republic. He once again revealed that the government has a problem with the republic, the festivals, and the celebrations, which have emerged with years of practice. Every holiday, every memorial, every celebration, unfortunately, we find a barrier. There's often a change of holiday celebration regulations. First, we civilize the holidays. You said, "But you have prevented the people from celebrating the holidays, you have forbidden the garlands of the Ataturk monuments, you have restricted these celebrations in schools." Now, before Republic Day, you published a new regulation in the number of copies of the Official Gazette, as if it were an emergency. Dear friends, you have said that Mustafa Kemal's army, the commanders of Garnizon, will no longer be able to put a wreath on the festivals, nor will he be able to join in the greeting. When this came up on Turkey's agenda, Mr. Prime Minister came out -- in front of the cameras, in front of the televisions -- said: since Jandarma General Command has been linked to the Ministry of Interior, it has now become a police headquarters in the province. That's not true, that's wrong; you misled the Prime Minister. Because I would like to say once again that in the former regulations and the new regulations, the commanders of all garrisons, in other classes where the gendarmes are, the commanders of the air, the sea, can't put wreaths as garrison commanders. So, my dear friends, on this particular October 29th, as a citizen, as a member of the Turkish Armed Forces, I can't stomach the fact that people who have served 30 years, 40 years for this country, who have become major general, who have become major general, who have become general, who have entered the Memorial, who have been called by a petty officer.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0007par0040	Shame on those who decide, why are you ashamed?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0006par0041	Therefore, I would like to bring up once again from the seat of this Grand Assembly how wrong it is to trust a general, a colonel, a petty officer, and to have control of the entrance to the Memorial, especially a president who claims to be the commander-in-chief. Dear friends, dear friends of the AKP, we don't understand the logic here. What does it mean to disparage Mustafa Kemal's army so much? Do you have another army? These friends, these friends of ours, who are in the Turkish Armed Forces, who are fighting terror with their lives, who are dying, who are waiting for our borders, who are waiting for our prisons, who are protecting our seas and airspace, who are fighting across our borders today, and who are keeping the peace in the countryside, but I want to express from the seat of this great Assembly, which you see so much as a holiday celebration. Come, turn this wrong, change this code. I salute the General Assembly once again, so that we may all take over the army of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0008par0045	Thank you, Mr. Charter. Congressmans, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to the 15 lawmakers who are now entering the system. Mr. Boyraz, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Çayak, Mr. Aydemir, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Güldüoğlu, Mr. Şekeker, Mr. Bektaşoğlu, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Öz, Mr. Arik, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Ersem. Mr. Boyraz, please.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0009par0051	Thank you, Mr. President. The date of November 3, 2002 14 years ago was when our leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan wrote and soloized in prisons in the agony of the nation and became a national choir. November 3, 2002 is the date of a democracy that has been violated, honored by custody, with dignity and chastity by the power of the AK PARTY. November 3, 2002 is a time when the nation's presence, identity, and values, are the sole guarantee of any totalitarian understanding that tries to transform a nation with a fictional sense of society that will undermine a national conscience. On November 3, 2002, we are not masters nor masters, but traitors. It is the date when a leader who cries with the nation, laughs with the nation, and walks with the nation begins the march of power. November 3, 2002, we have this nation against those who ignore this nation. Enough! And the word and the judgment are of the people. It is the day when the people of Asia Minor stood up.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0008par0054	Thank you. Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0010par0057	Thank you, Mr. President. The problems of the 4/B/B/B/L, the problems of the 4/C/Earths, pensioners and subcontractors must be resolved. Those who are subject to 657 are victims who are not equal with 657 staff. Equal rights must be given to equal work. The promise of the staff to subcontractors must be fulfilled immediately. After the last election, a year passed, and the 14-year AKP government carried out a lot of practice against workers. This time there must also be good news for employees of 4/B, 4/C. The AKP must stop listening to the voice of workers, unemployed, poor, those who can't get their rights. By creating artificial agendas, the real problems are not solved. The ministers, the prime ministers, they're making statements, they're selling hope. The government must keep its promises, and all subcontractors must be cast unconditionally. For subcontractors, certain explanations must be made without delay, a precise and precise date must be given. The workers must be stopped from playing with their emotions and efforts.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0008par0059	Thank you. Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0011par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. As we have learned from media reports four days ago, 29 tons of tangerine exported from Turkey to Ukraine have been returned on the grounds that it contains unhealthy organisms. In the tangerine control of the port of Odessa, the Mediterranean fly was detected, and the Ukrainian government gave Turkey a note on the issue. From this platform, the problem of fighting the Mediterranean fly, which we have repeatedly drawn attention to, has now reached a point where our economy is hit. After a ton of lemons returned by Europe last month, the fact that the same problem now appears in tangerine indicates that the necessary measures are not being taken. We repeat our call to the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting to quickly assess the issue, take the necessary precautions, and explain to the public what the outcome of the returned products is. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0012par0067	Thank you. Mr. Aydemir...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0013par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. The investment move, including East and Southeast Anatolia, has created a thrill of development in these areas and especially in Erzurum, and private sector-based entrepreneurship has gained a new momentum. In the process, the new project, which our Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism will implement with the title "Production to National Agriculture" is extremely important in the context of modern-day support for the concept of the brand towns that we have started in the region and in our province, where the agricultural sector is a priority. This approach will speed up the branding process in Erzurum, which contains significant potential and opportunities for organic agriculture, and our province and region will have a new opportunity to express itself in the field of agriculture. In that sense, I invite all the entrepreneurs on the sale of our country to invest in Erzurum, congratulating you on the fourteenth anniversary of the November 3rd, which stole our country over the ages.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0012par0072	Thank you. Mr. Dogan...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0014par0075	Mr. President, yesterday the Suryani cemetery in the Mara neighborhood of Adıyaman was attacked. Some graves were destroyed during the attack, and the headstones, written in Syriac and Turkish, were broken. In 2006, a similar attack was carried out on the cemetery, which belonged to the Mor Peter Mor Paul Süryani Church in Adıyaman, and some headstones were destroyed in the same way. A similar attack took place last June in Hatay, and the Jewish cemetery was attacked. The cemetery of the village of Stanoz, which is located in Zir Valley of Yenikent, is also destroyed by treasurers. The gravestones have been removed and the graves have been dug up. We can replicate samples like these. Attacking the graveyards of a congregation, a nation, a religious group is attacking the culture of co-existence, attacking our history. These attacks cause deep wounds to the children and grandchildren of those who lie in the graves. Those who commit this attack at once must be caught and punished. The graveyards of non-Muslim minorities must be protected.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0012par0076	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0015par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. The prosecutor who carried out the operation against Cumhuriyet daily has been released to the public and the press as well as to the charge file of membership, but an investigation has also been launched into the journalist who reported the prosecutor's case. Isn't all this putting pressure on the press? How will government officials respond to that? Is this not a constant threat of punishment for the people's public knowledge and the disclose of what is hidden? We're asking the government for an explanation. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0016par0081	Thank you. Mr. Open...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0017par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is November 3rd, the beginning of the era of white power. Throughout 14 years of AK PARTY power, this necipated service to the nation is the address of the staff that made it their own, the AK PARTY. In 14 years, it's the address of the crews that make dreams come true, not dreams. In the beginning, our founder leader, the leader of our white trial, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President, our Prime Minister Buli Yıldırım, and all the other white staffs in office, thanking you, and welcoming our fellow litigators, the Supreme God, our great Assembly and our nation.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0016par0086	Thank you. Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0018par0089	Turkey has increased the production of pomegranates seven-and-a-half times in 15 years, but when the production is not supported by consumption and exports, prices are reduced to 30 to 35 cents in the manufacturer. In 2000, the number of pomegranate trees bearing 2.5 million fruit increased to 13.3 million tons in 2015. Although there is now a surplus in the production of pomegranates, production will increase even more once these trees start to produce, considering the tree that does not produce 4.1 million tonnes of fruit. The price fell, as a result of the government's foreign policy, the failure to export to Russia was also effective. Because the prices were too low, he remained in the pomegranate branch. Our manufacturers couldn't even find a buyer for their products. Our producers who can't make enough money can't pay their debts. I wonder, why does the AKP always punish production and manufacturer? Some of our manufacturers removed the pomegranate trees and began to plant tangerines and oranges instead.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0016par0090	Thank you. Mr. Wellercuoğlu...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0019par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. Following the coup attempt launched by the Tapu and Kadastro Directorate on July 15, 2016, nearly 6,000 deeds have been seized by the press, which are said to belong to the move of related institutions. With your intermediary, I would like to ask Mr. Prime Minister: What is the number of hospitals, private educational institutions, hospitals, universities, and hospitals, which are allowed to be established during the time of your power in this community's entire tenure? Is there, again, land, buildings, facilities for these permitted places, municipalities, foundations, or simply public-owned or sold land? If so, what are their numbers and values? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0020par0098	Thank you. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0021par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. For days, agricultural engineers, food engineers and environmental engineers have been calling on lawmakers to visit the Minister of Agriculture and to visit the Assembly with e-mails and messages to lawmakers, and to assign appointments to agriculture engineers and food engineers, don't they? Thousands of agricultural engineers and food engineers are unemployed, and we expect our ministry to make an attempt on them. My second question will be to the Minister of Health: "We have made a breakthrough in the Ministry of Health. " We've built new hospitals, but my constituency, Mersin, has a medical problem in all districts. As of last night, we couldn't find an ICU to move a patient with a brain hemorrhage. They said there was no before the Balcallı Hospital of Adana Çukurova University. On our call, they had to accept the patient as a result of our attempts. Is this Turkey, which leaps into the age of health? There is no intensive care unit in Mersin, which has to do with neurosurgery, which cannot be interfered with. I'd like to review Turkey's current situation and make sure that the intensive care units of Mersin, my constituency district, are made.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0022par0105	Thank you. Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0023par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. In businesses of the Forest General Directorate, there are 24,000 workers in the number of which are part of the community's work programme, including trade union, low-paying, divine price system or subcontractorial benefit. Most of these workers suffer from the lack of regulation on Law 5620 and its regulations. These workers, employed by subcontractors, have been employed for five months and twenty-nine days. But they are always needed. In the Giresun Forest Regional Directorate, where the army is also connected, there are intense complaints and reactions from workers who work at this status. Although they perform the same tasks as other workers, the rights of these workers, run in separate categories and separately, must be avoided. I'd like to remind you once again of the government's promise of subcontractorship as I take these workers' situation from here to the minister. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0024par0111	Thank you. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0025par0114	Mr. President, first of all, I condemn and condemn the offensive attack on our Vice President of the Republican People's Party, Bulent Tezcan. I accept this attack as an attack on the Republican People's Party. I have two questions for the Prime Minister. 1) The July 15 coup attempt is a fact that the MIT and the Undersecretary of the MIT have been severely flawed and neglected. This initiative has been found to be based on a weakness of intelligence. Do you intend to conduct a transaction on MIT Undersecretary Hakan Fidan in the face of these developments? Has there been an investigation into the MIT and its personnel connected to the terrorist organization? 2) Have you identified the council of the peace in the dorm where they made the July 15 coup attempt and made the statement read in TRT? If so, would you explain these names? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0026par0119	Thank you, too. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0027par0122	Mr. President, I'm calling to power that there will be no new developments that will shock the nation, no new investigations towards digesting all the opposition parts of society. The intimidation launched against Cumhuriyet daily revealed that Prosecutor Murat İnam (the prosecutor) behind the attempt to receive it was the defendant in the case of Å, Oda TV Editor-in-Chief Barış Pehlivan. The prosecutor who operates in the Republic is being tried for his membership. Due to his report titled "It is now being launched to investigate journalist Barış Pehlivan." What's the charge? It's a claim to target people who've been involved in counterterrorism with this news. Is this crazy approach acceptable? What's the matter with you? Everyone will pledge and we will impose the presidency on Turkey. Are you saying that? Once again, we're going to fight Fascism shoulder-to-shoulder, the Turkish people won't pass through fascism. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0028par0126	Thank you. Dear Arik...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0029par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. The AKP continues to make innocent citizens pay for its sins under the name of the fight against ▪. See, the AKP mobilized with its ministers, MPs, mayors to establish Melikşah University. The houses and plots of citizens in the slums they built by raising their teeth to the University of Melikşah were taken from them without their consent, without their consent, and the citizens were given a house in return. When the partnership was broken, Melikşah University was closed and all assets were handed over to the General Directorate of Foundations. These are now called houses of the General Directorate of the Foundations, not yours; they are called to evacuate within a month. So it's happening to innocent citizens who are together and who are separated from the roads. Is that what you're fighting with? What is the sin of these citizens? Where will these citizens go on winter day, whose homes and plots you've taken from them? Do you have any work to make this sacrifice go away? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0030par0133	Thank you. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0031par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. The latest victims of AKP-saray's power, the medics, who turned Turkey into hell with decrees in the State of Emergency and by law on the basis of the coup, became its target. On October 29th, a decree issued by the law was discharged 443 health workers from the Health Workers' Union (SES), which I have been proud and honored to be a member of for 25 years. More than 100 of them are from the province of Fairfax; 28 were expelled in Adıyaman, including my two co-chairs. Since 15 July, nearly 3,000 health workers have been suspended and expelled in total. It's unfair, it's cruel, it's the practice of dedicated health workers who devote their lives to human health and life. I strongly condemn what has been done to my dedicated colleagues who are trying to save lives in the worst circumstances, even in conflicted environments. Doctor Sinan Olcan, the victim of September 12th, and Dr. Ömer Faruk Gergerlioğlu, the former president of MaZLUMDER, must be reinstated immediately.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0032par0139	Mr. Result...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0033par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. By means of İSKUR, which is established for employment for unemployed persons, it is being hired to work for 3, 6, 9 months. Governors and governors, who are in charge of hiring these people, are using their rights of appreciation to those who belong to the AKP, acting as AKP mayors and district heads. We think that people in need of bread and work should not have a criteria for their political preferences in employment. What is the crime of our people who do not vote for the AKP, but are in need of the job? How do you put this injustice to our people into your conscience? On this occasion, I would like to call upon the authorities in our republic founded by the Great Leader Ataturk to act responsibly and to be fair. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0034par0146	Thank you. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the group presidents who are demanding a word. Mr. Tanal, Mr. Levent has requested the power of attorney of the group as acting chief. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0035par0151	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, there's been a planned attack on the Republican People's Party recently. There's a planned attack on our president, then on our vice president, and on our mayors lately. Is this the government's agenda of who planned these attacks, where this was made? What kind of environment is Turkey to be dragged into? That's what we want to know. Such attacks will not deter the Republican People's Party, they will not deter us, we will continue our struggle. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0036par0154	Thank you. There's no further demands. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Members of parliament have been taken back as the main commission to the Plan and Budget Commission, as a commission to transfer industrial, trade, energy, resources, information and technology to the Commission (2/1435). It's for your information. There are three motions for parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition, we provide the identification of companies that are responsible for the post-privatisation electricity distribution service, the joint need of subscribers, the need of electricity, the need for uninterrupted, quality and cheap access to electricity, whether they serve with an understanding based on its purpose, whether they fulfill their commitments, whether they're being audited in accordance with the procedure, and if they're being audited, and if they're being subjected to the failure of electricity distribution services, we submit to open the Constitutional Court upon the basis of their investigation of the provisions, including legal arrangements. 1) Bornt Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] 4) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[Denizli]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Hatay]] [[Sivas]] [[Edirne]] [[Scholarship]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Army]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[İzmir]] [[Kayseri]] 23) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] The production, transmission and distribution of electricity energy is a public service. It is a service that must be offered to the public with all kinds of profits and rant relations, uninterrupted, quality and cheap, accessible. In the past, for reasons such as the lack of a monopoly structure in price setting, the cost of production, transport investments, fair distribution of services, the state has made the production, transmission and distribution of electricity. Then, without the support of the private sector, with limited resources and management, the discussion of these services that could not be done effectively, economically, began, in 2001, with the Power Market Act 4628, the energy distribution service presentation began to open into competition. The President of the Privatisation Administration has stated that the aims of privatisation of electricity energy are efficient operating, lowering costs, providing supply security and improving supply quality, reducing loss of supply quality, renovating and enlargement investments by the private sector, projecting competitive benefits to consumers. The public-owned power distribution service in our country began in 2009 and was run by the private sector as of September 30, 2013, and was left entirely to the private sector. Privatisation has given distribution companies the task of establishing distribution facilities, improving, expanding and renovating consumers with the capacity to provide quality and continuous electricity they need. Despite the privatisation process's growing demand for energy every year, periodic maintenance repairs have been ignored, repairs, maintenance of facilities have not been done on time, and complaints about power cuts and malfunctions have increased. The height of their bills and frequent cuts are at the beginning of complaints after privatisation. The main reason for the blackouts is that there is no investment and lack of control, not enough electrical infrastructure in parallel to rapid construction and population growth. In November 2015, there were 72,252 hours of planned blackouts throughout Turkey, and there was no official data on unscheduled cuts. The amount of cuts and numbers per consumer head, based on the supply continuity indicators of electricity energy offered to the electricity distribution system, have been left to a distribution company statement. Distribution companies need new investments to prevent cuts and malfunctions, but its approval must be made by the Energy Market Editorial Agency. Renewal and investment expenditures have been reflected in consumers through tariffs, creating a legal way of transferring funds from consumers to distribution companies. The investment and control process is also said to be failing due to the control of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. In addition, lost electricity consumption, predicted to decrease by privatisation, has continued to increase in some distribution areas. The privatisation tenders were found to have been carried out before the companies had even been given their missing target projections. The EPDK has taken measures in distribution areas with a high number of missing fugitives, in which distribution companies do not damage them, changing the missing fugitive targets of some electricity distribution companies and saving companies from investment difficulties. Their lost illegal targets have been increased to be a burden on consumers and unacceptable reasons. Privatisation of electric distribution zones has created special monopoly after privatisation, as does not create competition and parallel to cheaper energy. A research commission must be set up to determine whether or not our citizens have served together with an understanding based on their purpose to achieve electricity, quality and cheap access to electricity, which is strategically important for the future and security of our country's electricity distribution service, and whether or not they have fulfilled their commitments, whether or not they have been properly audited or not. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose legislation for the development of health tourism, which is one of Turkey's foreign currency sectors, which is rapidly growing and will take place in the world's economy in the years to come, to open up a parliamentary study of the Constitution, under Articles 104, and 105, as well as the wealth that Izmir has underground and above ground, as well as its cultural values from the past and to be the center of health tourism. [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] 3) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Hatay]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Scholarship]] [[Edirne]] [[İzmir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Denizli]] [[Aydın]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sivas]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] 21) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] Health tourism in the world and in our country has been an important tourist area that has risen rapidly in recent years. Our country is in a highly advantageous geography in the field of health tourism, which will be rapidly important in the future, mainly based on health and treatment. In this context, it is important that health, thermal, spring, and natural spores, which are scattered all over our country, be evaluated together in the framework of integration and planning, infrastructure and the immediate start of work for the developed manpower. Alternative tourism is generally divided into subtitles such as congressional tourism, crossbow tourism, cultural tourism, faith tourism, golf tourism and health tourism and so on. Within these subtitles, health tourism is a step forward for others in terms of sustainability, the relatively low impact of economic conditions, the greater economic yield and the more objective market share-building process by branding. As a matter of fact, we aim to boost our competitiveness by increasing the quality of service in the areas of medical tourism, thermal health tourism and advanced age-related tourism, where Turkey is the world's rising market, with the Primarily Transformation Programme for Health Tourism." It's in their statements. Looking at the aging population around the world, we see that the direction of health tourism has shifted to geriatric care, senior care, modern active aging centers. In this sense, Izmir is one of the most important centers to serve old health tourism with thermals, history, sun and sea, gastronomy and many other elements. The Asklepion in Bergama, one of the oldest health centres in the ancient times and in Anatolia, is also a medical school where the world's famous physicians were raised and the world's first psychiatric hospital. For nearly a thousand and five hundred years, Galen had left about 20 volumes of work from surgery to psychiatry, anatomy to physiology, philosophy to pharmacology. It is a bridge of civilizations from the past to the future with Izmir, Ephes, the Virgin Mary, Bergama, Smurfice, Urla, and Foça. As a matter of fact, the theme of the 2015 and 2020 EXPO candidacy processes has been defined as health-determinated, as it is a global issue. Because of its position and advantages, both candidates have been identified as the ExPO area of figurine. However, Izmir is not in his rightful place, despite all these values, these riches. In this context, it is important to create regional support and incentives as well as sectorally-based incentives. If you look at the neighbouring provinces of İzmir, there are four different areas of encouragement within a square mile [3.5 km]. This moves investors to other neighbouring cities, not to Izmir (e.g. Izmir). As a result, not only do all the sector's shareholders, but the government must put its hand under the stone and take the necessary steps to make it a brand city. It is a good model for Turkey and especially for Izmir, the health free zone that is now only in Dubai, which provides serious income to the Dubai economy. For the development of health tourism, which is one of Turkey's foreign currency bringers, which is rapidly growing and will take place in the world economy in the coming years, we propose that legislation be prepared, sector partners produce common minds, Izmir's holdings open to an underground and above-ground wealth, as well as to preserve its cultural values from the past and become the center of health tourism, in order to establish steps in order to ensure that the Constitution be introduced and to be the center of 98th, the 101th, the 104th and 105th Articles of the Civil Chart. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The most basic right to be human is the right to live. Everyone has the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment. The history of nuclear power plants that cost the lives of people and living things around the world is extremely high. The future negatives are publicly known because of the nuclear plants in Turkey, which are planned to be built. The projects that the public is most anxious about are nuclear plants. The people of Sinop and the Black Sea are the most anxious. In 2013, Japan signed an agreement to build nuclear power plants for Sinop Tülburun. Japan has become a country with a record of nuclear power plants due to human deaths and environmental disaster after the accident at Fukushima Daichi Nuclear Plant. The Fukushima accident has once again brought to the world's agenda the credibility of nuclear power plants. After the accident, the general stance for many countries was that the nuclear power plant reconsidered its security requirements. Germany is the country where the political impact of the nuclear plant crash after Japan is most felt. It was announced by the government in May 2011 that the nuclear power plants would be effectively disabled by 2022. Sinop's nuclear plant, intended to become a brand of education and tourism, does not want the people of Sinop. Against the public, despite the public, it would be the right solution for the nuclear plant project to be put on the shelf immediately in accordance with these developments and at the request of the public. As it is known, nuclear plants may not have any accidents, but there is a radiation surge in the area where the plant was established, causing air, water, soil pollution, and negativity on living things. Many elements, such as the cooling water of the nuclear plant, which was planned to be established in Sinop, could destabilise the marine ecosystem, damage environmental and human health in the region's atmosphere, the environment of heavy metal, waste salt and minerals, and the uncertainty of where and how to destroy nuclear waste. With respect to the establishment of correct and permanent policies that could be avoided by nuclear plants in Turkey and especially the planned nuclear plants in Sinop, making comprehensive assessments on the problems that nuclear plants will create, prioritizing alternative policy proposals for nuclear energy, identifying the problems nuclear plants will create in terms of "life" and" environment rights, and opening a parliamentary investigation to investigate solutions. [[Sinop]] [[Scholarship]] 3) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Army]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[Edirne]] [[Sivas]] [[Denizli]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Kayseri]] [[İzmir]] 23) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Thursday/11/2016 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. On 3 November 2016, the Council of Diyarbakır MP Idris Baluken proposed that the government of the AKP, given 3205 rows, be read in the same edition of the parliamentary inquiry motion given to Turkey's Grand National Assembly in order to determine and implement the problems of Syrian and Iraqi policies, and be read in the same date in the presentation of the talks. People's Democratic Party will first speak in favour of the group's proposal, Diyarbakır MP Alton Tan. Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0037par0347	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, dear friends, I've come to you many times about Turkey's Syrian policy, and many times again, members of the Parliament from different parties have expressed their views on this issue. The ranks of power are almost empty, with five friends in total.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0038par0349	Five, five!
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0037par0350	Although, since no one listens very much, I'd like to say a few words to the record, the history, the records. Unfortunately, there is a war going on in and out of Turkey right now. You know, we've stopped using that word before, but there's no other explanation for the situation. Dear friends, again, the most important reason that we have come to this situation with everyone's alliance is the intersection of our problems, the Syrian policy that changed after 2011 and the Middle Eastern policy. We're not just saying this, but Deputy Prime Minister Numan, the government spokesman, says that we've made a mistake in Syrian policy, and the most important thing that we've come to is these mistakes. Of course, I don't want to go into deep analysis over a period of ten minutes. Again, I don't want to get into the classic power and opposition polemics. But, if Syrian policy is the fundamental wrong point of all this, and everyone is an ally at this point today, then what's right, what's right, what's right, how does a right policy get out of this House, we need to talk about it. Of course, a second important determination is that the Kurdish problem is the main reason why Syrian policy has become so complicated, and Iraq policy has become inextricable, and it's actually turning into a war. If Turkey had a proper policy on Kurds inside Turkey and outside Turkey, if the state could get rid of their phobias that it couldn't abandon since Iraq and Terakki, if there was a peaceful Kurdish solution, I suppose things wouldn't have come to this. Dear friends, I'd like to make a statement, but believe me, I've thought a lot about it. This 100-year-old state mind -- look, I don't blame a party alone -- has not been able to get rid of the phobia in the Kurdish issue: "Whatever steps are taken about these Kurds, the end of it goes away, the end goes apart, the end goes to division." The Kurdish people have demonstrated their faith in living together hundreds of times, their unity, their unity, their unity, each time, but the state has not been able to escape from this phobia, unfortunately, the state has not been able to recover from its mind. It has come to a point where either this Kurd should not have a tent, and my house should be destroyed! Dear friends, this is a disaster. Whether it's Kurd's tent, whether it's his house, whether it's Turkish, whether it's Arab, whether it's a democratic Turkey and the new Middle East together. Here, you did that, I did that, the government did that, and the PKK responded, and I don't want to go into these polemics because I told you in the beginning, our intention is to show how to build a right future from now on. What was to be done? I, of course, speak from the point of view of politics inside. What needed to be done was a proper perspective on Syrian Kurds from the beginning. What's the right perspective? Because it's a general sentence, it's got to be filled. The Syrian opposition has gathered many times in Gaziantep, gathered in Antalya, gathered in Istanbul, and part of the meetings were held while PYD leader Salih Müslim was still in prison in Syria. In these meetings, nothing clear was ever said about the Syrian Kurds. There were such discussions that, for example, at a meeting in Istanbul where the representatives of Ihvan were present, they had to be called "The Republic of Syria" or "The Arab Republic of Syria" or "The Arab Republic of Syria..." The Republic of Syria didn't even accept these opposition elements, and they were replaced with the signs of the Republic of Syria, the Arab Republic of Syria, which had been hanged in that hall, and then replaced by the names of the Arab Republic of Syria. Again, a Nakshibendi sheik -- which is far from the PKK, far from the NYD -- attended a meeting in Antalya, where he made a speech. He said: "Will Syrian Kurds have the right to education in the main language, will there be regional governance?" (It was thrown out of the hall by the protesters there, and with very round words, the Bezar Assad regime, the Baas Party, is replaced by a democratic order, where the Kurds get their rights in the integrity of Syria. There was no sentence but the sentence. So, a perspective, a policy was not put in front of the Syrian Kurds, and the ongoing problem was defined through the PKK and the PYD. And Salih Müslim, you know, has been in Ankara many times before, has been a guest of national intelligence, the state, but in these talks, there is no common ground. It is the same thing that must be done today, both in Iraq and Syria, yes, there will be Kurds. Let him go to the west of the storm. Shall he set up a corridor or not? Shall he stay in the east? What is the policy of the government, the state? What if he stays east of Fırat? What if he stays in the straw? What is the integrity of Syria? What kind of solution are you putting in front of the Syrian Kurds? The same questions apply to Iraq. Mosul, for example. What kind of Mosul? A Mosul under whose rule? A statement was made on behalf of our party, which was last said by the President General. Yes, let Turkey -- in the nail -- mingle with Syria, mingle with Iraq, but blend properly. So, of course, there are 36 states that come from 10,000 kilometers, 5,000 kilometers, 3,000 kilometers away, and are involved in everything, where there are 63 coalitions of countries, and let Turkey stand by and watch. No one is saying that. We get involved, and it's part of us as a party, as a citizen, as a family. But, how do we get involved? What projects will we be involved in? Defend what? Dear friends, the key to this is the introduction of a proper project on Kurds, both inside Turkey and outside Turkey. By God, if I defend education in the main language, if I defend it in the Shengal, so will the Kurd in Diyarbakır. Yes, he will. If there are regional governments there, they'll be here, and if the people choose the governor there, they'll choose here. But it doesn't hurt the country, the union, the tie. The Kurdish people have proved this union at least 100 times in a hundred years, that they don't want to leave, that they're in favor of a life together, that they're in favor of peace, that they're out of peace, that they're moving towards violence, that they're all friendly enemies. For him, dear friends -- of course, on behalf of the state and state, the government is in power -- we insist: there is no need to invade with tens of thousands of soldiers, to fight, to fight, to make this even more insurmountable. Please set up a project on Kurdish status in Syria, on the status of Iraqis, on social peace in Turkey. If you don't like our project, put it on a project. If you see us wrong, you do the right thing, put something in front. And what about the new Syria, the new Iraq? None of this will happen, not until this peace is reached in Turkey. We'd like to do a congressional search for him, talk this through in a more orderly manner. My respects.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0039par0362	Thank you, Mr. Tan. People's Democratic Party will first speak against the group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Grandson.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0040par0366	Mr. President, the values of lawmakers, the issues expressed in the basis of our government's proposal for research on Syrian and Iraqi policies, do not reflect the truth. Let's start with Arab Spring: The Arab Spring, which began in 2010, increased hopes for the democratisation of the Middle East, but the process of democratisation was interrupted by militant intervention. During the period leading up to the Arab Spring, Turkey developed relations with the region during the policy of zero problems with the neighbours, taking responsibility in the region as support for new actors who have won power in the Arab Spring process. This active approach is entirely shaped by human anxiety. Unfortunately, the process that could contribute to the democratisation of the region has been recognized in Egypt by military coup, led to tribal war in Libya, and a sect-based civil war in Yemen. As for Syria. Turkey initially continued its relations with management and encouraged democratic reforms. In Syria, our government has tried to convince the administration for six months in the process of the first demonstrations fighting back with guns and then bombing cities with tanks. If there were any improvements on three things, these days would never have happened. One is the dismissal of the Governor of Dera, who arrests children and kills them with severe torture; the other is the recognition of the right of the only party in the constitution to enter the election to other parties, the multi-party system; the third is the release of political prisoners in prison. However, it was impossible to allow the government to slaughter the people without discrimination if it did not accept these legitimate and innocent demands. If we did, those who accuse us today would then say, "Why are you letting me go?" In the process, Turkey supported all peaceful efforts, but the regime failed all these efforts, and at the moment today, half the population had to leave their homes, including 5 million out of the country and 7 million in the country. Despite the good intentions of Turkey, unfortunately, the United Nations and international organisations have not been effective in this regard and have been able to make the war worse. The U.S. has returned from its original policy and has not even shown the necessary attitude in the use of chemical weapons, which it has declared a red line. The length of the war in Syria has provided a proper measure for the nesting of terrorist organisations. In northern Syria, the situation is this: over the years, the Baas Administration, which rejected all rights of Kurds and even gave no ID, and the PKK's Syrian arm, the PKK, joined the PYD, fought the opposition on the side of the regime that persecuted them for years. The PYD is the representative of the terrorist organization Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), not Kurds. The PYD is a Stalinist organisation, such as the PKK, which has not allowed any other political views to take place in its jurisdiction, and has driven Kurds out of the region, not only of Arab and Turkmen, but of those who don't think like themselves. Hundreds of thousands of Kurds fled from the region and migrated to the Kurdish region or Turkey in northern Iraq. The PYD leader did not keep his own brother in the area because he thought differently, and he is still living in Turkey. Meanwhile, the DAİH terrorist group, which emerged in Iraq, has moved to Syria and has begun to serve forces in Syria who want to do population engineering. In northern Syria, PYD has brokered ethnic and ideological cleansing by hand. Turkey is a slander associated with this organisation. In fact, if you look at the results of the organization's actions, it is clear that there is an agreement between them and the PKK. PYD has been placed everywhere where the EPA has emptied. The last group to move to Menbic with support from the United States fell in love with a PYD corridor that dates back to Afrin, despite warnings from Turkey. Operation Fırat Shield was cleared of our borders and the Free Syrian Army was established. Until El Bab, the area will be wiped clean and this area will become a secure area. Turkey will never allow terrorist organizations to end up here. We favour Syria's territorial integrity and support all efforts against division. The PKK and its supporters, who dream of division in the region and therefore sabotage the solution process in Turkey, will again be abandoned by its masters. As noted in David Ignatius' article in The Washington Post, the United States is known for selling actors it uses in the region. As for Iraq, the process began in 2003 with the invasion of Iraq, while al-Qaeda's terrorist organization began operating in Iraq. After the invasion of Iraq, Turkey played a constructive role in the region and did its best to ensure the country's stability. In particular, our relations with the tribes in the Anbar region allowed Sunni Arabs to participate in the political process as a result of our efforts, and when we arrived in 2009, Al Qaeda completely lost ground in the Iraq region, and terrorist incidents were severely reduced. However, after the withdrawal of the United States, the religious policies of the Prime Minister Nuri Al-Maliqi, the Sunni Arab community and, in turn, the Kurdish regional administration, have re-established stability in Iraq and have caused terrorist groups, especially in the province of Anbar, to become active again. This development led to the emergence of the DAİH terrorist organization in 2013, and later transformed into a process that led to its control of the Anbar region. Turkey has repeatedly warned our allies of the consequences of the sectarian position of the Iraqi administration, but after Mosul's fall, our rights have been accepted, unfortunately, too late. During this period, Turkey began training troops to fight DAHIŞ with the permission of the Iraqi government and the Kurdish regional administration. In the region, Turkey has always warned that sectarian policies will damage the region, and it has avoided it violently. Religiousists in the region did not hesitate to throw this slander on Turkey to hide their own condition. Remember that in front of Maliki, Turkey supports Iyad Allavi as a Shii. There's no one in the region who doesn't know that the Maliki government and the coming Ibadi government are under Iran's control. Iran is operating or trying to operate in every country in the region today with Shiite communities. The famous commander of Iran's Jerusalem Army, who sent paramilitary forces to Syria, Kasym Süleymani, has been clearly shot in Iraq. The Husis who are trying to overthrow the elected government in Yemen are also an Iranian operation. For some reason, every time they open their mouths, those who accuse the government of sectarianism do not put dust in Iran, despite this obvious sectarianism. In Maliki's recent speech, he spoke openly of his wars in Syria and Yemen, and when he said "I'm going to make a scene," he said, "I'm going to do it." Even though Iranian-backed Hashdi Shabi militias massacred civilians in Fallujah and drove the locals out of the area, no one said a word, unfortunately the Western public played three monkeys. It is not difficult to predict what these sectarian militias will do when they enter Mosul, who are no different from the one who is ruthless. Turkey is warning the US leadership of the coalition in case there are civilian massacres like Fallujah in both Musul and Telafer, and clearly saying it will not stand by. What could be more natural than our country, which ruled the region for four hundred years, and has historical and cultural ties to the peoples in the region, warning that there might be another disaster near us. Turkey advocates Iraq's territorial integrity, we have no eyes on the land of Iraq, but it certainly opposes ethnic or religious cleansing under the control of another country in Iraq and warns the international community about it. We are in favor of Iraq's peace as a democratic society, and after that, there will never be any change in our position. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0041par0382	Thank you. In favour of the group's proposal, Peoples' Democratic Party will finally speak to Ardahan Millekilli Mr. Ozturk Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0042par0386	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the government's policy on Iraq and Syria. I salute the High Council. Right now, especially in our foreign policy, there are two things that we need to focus on most, which are the most urgent, one of which is our neighbor, Iraq, and the other is our neighbor, Syria. We can say that neither in Iraq nor Syria have we seen a very pleasant picture. At the moment, the question of whether Iraq is to be separated or apart is the most controversial issue. Because in the post-Isil period, especially in the case of a Mosul-axis policy, it remains a subject of serious debate on how it will reflect on Baghdad, and its relationship with Baghdad. On another subject: The relationship between Erbil and Baghdad is not yet clear as to what kind of system it will be put into. But before the ISIS invasion, we can say that the situation of relations between Erbil and Baghdad, essentially, has worsened after the invasion of ISIS. Especially since the Mosul operation began, Turkey's attempt to be removed from the picture, the hostile stance of the Iraqi Central Government against Turkey, Turkey's action regardless of the Iraqi Central Government, the situation arises when it is placed below: essentially, we avoid implementing the minimum requirements of diplomacy, and it's getting in the way of our foothold, which affects us in the international community. Now, how should we approach this change in our territory? In the post-Isil chapter after ISIS has been cleaned, it becomes very important to understand what kind of thinking we have about Iraq's territorial integrity. In our previous talks, we know that the government's strategy for these matters is essentially without a plan. A shipment is being delivered to the border. They say there's a shipment related to the Mosul operation, amenna. We can actually understand that this is a military shipment, it can be assessed as a deterrent, but we don't have a strategy, a strategy, a political strategy, about Telafer, in general, about Iraq, because we don't really work with the Central Government, which is the most important of actors. Despite all problems, the government needs a strategy to open a dialogue channel, based on the Iraqi Central Government, despite all problems. We can say that this has to be brought into action immediately, otherwise Turkey will really force it into the international arena. Another issue is Syria. Sadly, there is no diplomatic solution yet in Syria. Diplomatic solutions are essential, but they're not moving to the table. Turkey does not want to be included in the Syrian painting as much as it did in Iraq. His thesis in Syria is also trapped within the range of Operation Firat Shield of Turkey. We have a few things to do as a country, and I'd like to share them. First, the international community's sensitivity to Syrian territorial integrity has not yet been reflected in the land. The international community still talks about Syria's territorial integrity on paper, but we need to know that there's going to be a division in Syria, a central, reinforced unitary structure, a more real system. So it's always important that we keep one foot in realism while we do the math. You know, there was once a matter taken in relations with Northern Iraq. Unfortunately, Turkey couldn't put things right for a long time, then turned around, changed policy because it couldn't read the painting properly. In Syria, especially at this time, we see that a political strategy outside the military operation, a strategy based on the territorial integrity of Syria, is unfortunately not the same as in Iraq. And here we see, with the Damascus administration, the lack of any channel is essentially a failure, but with regret that there is no effort to repair it. The speech is important, the matter of Mosul is important. Is there any chance there's going to be a civilian massacre here? There is, but it may be acceptable, it may be true, but it's not enough that Turkey will step up in the international community just by bringing its own power, its own resources into play. It must be one of the priorities for the international community, the United Nations, to be sensitive about this issue. In terms of relations with Kurds, we can say that Kurds are our brothers, who, after all, share our geography. We need to establish a relationship system within the framework of relative law. An ancient people in this geography. After all, we're always bumping into walls in the foreign policy we do without considering it. This should go beyond an ideological obsession. We need to establish a strategy based on friendship, not hostility, and we need to make it work. And that's basically what suits us, because we need to know that in this geography, unfortunately, multiethnic, religious-based politics don't work very well. It should be known that we have enough talent for this, but the point is, unfortunately, we don't have a strategy to drive this into the field. The important thing is the territorial integrity of Iraq and Syria, the people who will decide those countries. At this point, we must be sensitive to that territorial integrity, to the territorial integrity of both countries, to the people of their internal regimes, to the people of their own people, to try to keep these systems in line. Sir, in this Middle East today, we all see a new dynamic in particular, witnessing. What's going on? We're always saying today, the boundaries are being redesigned. If five or six years from now, the new dynamic in Iraq does not work, a new situation will arise, and a new one will emerge in Syria. We need to do our calculations accordingly. By bullying, talking about the high screen, we could not and could not achieve anything; neither could the Assad regime be overthrown, nor was the territorial integrity of Iraq. Now we have to sit down and work on a proper strategy. In fact, this should be a strategy that transcends the ethnic and religious element, and only then can Turkey gain power. The tension that we have experienced with the United States of America and the West, especially recently, is getting deeper and sharper. In particular, we need to make a decision when all of this is taken into consideration. Do we have the power to take this strategy all over the world? If we say we do, we have to go on, if we're having second thoughts about it, then at some point we have to cooperate with the international community. Another issue is the most controversial in the region, especially after this Mosul operation, and then after the operation, which will take place in the post-Isil period, where the ISIS elements will run. Our cities are no longer safe, our streets are no longer safe. Our strategy for ISIS has not been right. These people will create a serious security problem if they come to Turkey. We need to create a sensitivity about this. At border security, he says we need to take those precautions, bring them in. Where will all these people, all these ISIS militants go? If these... there's no other road left, they'll either run south or south through Turkey. At least we have to get our own security. Because the ISIL threat is now deeply embedded in Turkey, and we need to increase the sensitivity in this regard. I would like to point out that the government's emphasis on this issue, especially border security and the fight against ISIS, will be significant. In this particular, we have to consider the safety of our cities, the safety of our cities, and the possibility that the refugees who come here without control will be used by ISIS and they will spill blood on the streets because now we have to talk to the truth. Turkey is under threat; it's under threat from radical, religious terrorist groups, and we need to bring in the elements that will eliminate this threat. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0043par0400	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Bauken, you're in the system.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0044par0402	Yes, Mr. President, I have a request according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0043par0403	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0044par0406	Thank you. Mr. President, in the early hours of this morning, the address of our Şırnak MP Aycan İrmez's official residence and home where his family lived were raided by dozens of armored vehicles and hundreds of police. Although it is officially known that it is the home of the MP, there is only one name for the raid, it is considered a bandit. We're dealing with an unlawful, pirate-like understanding, a mindset that's a bandit. First of all, as the People's Democratic Party, I'd like to say that we condemn those who have brought forth this bandits. Those who think they can bring us to our knees with this banditry have always lost before history, and will continue to lose from now on. Again, our Şırnak MP, Farhad Encu... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0045par0411	Pack it up, please.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0044par0412	When he went to Istanbul airport today to conduct some of his work in Brussels, he was declared to have been banned abroad and his passport confiscated. We've talked to the Speaker about both matters. The Parliament Speaker does nothing but destroy the reputation of this Parliament and the reputation of its parliament; while the home of lawmakers is being raided, armed, while curfews are being imposed abroad only have to be observed, and by his own hand he removes the legitimate ground of parliament and lawmakers. I want to express that we condemn this understanding, that we will continue our struggle against these understandings. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0045par0414	Thank you, too. Peoples' Democratic Party will finally speak against group proposal by Ankara MP Murat Alparslan. Here you go, Mr. Alparslan.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0046par0421	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. The position of our party, our government in Syrian policy is very clear and accurate. Our government, which has clearly expressed its will to resolve these ongoing messes since March 2011 and has demonstrated a serious zeal for it on both international levels and in all areas, does not keep this issue independent of the internal issue of our country. Because the existence of our existing borders, our past historical ties, the fact that there are so many dramas that are somehow our concern, makes it the most natural for us to take care of it. In the face of a tragedy, where more than 500,000 people have lost their lives and millions have had to migrate from their homes, we have to show maximum sensitivity as our historical and historical responsibility and as our human responsibilities. We have to watch all kinds of events in the country and in the region at all times, in order not to leave shoes behind, and in order to prevent a one-checto situation from unfolding. From the very first day that events began, we have always been persistent advocates that people should be respected for their will to establish their own governments there, that a territorial integrity is absolutely essential; that's where we have all our initiatives, all our efforts. Beyond that, we've also established a clear stance on the efforts of both regional and global forces to bring this issue to our country with project structures and terrorist organizations, both through the wars of power and power, through the traumas designed in the region and the country. Therefore, we put forth an effort to prevent a persecution, to end the persecution of the oppressor, and to bring about the rights of the oppressed there. The technical details of this matter have been explained in detail by our party's representative and by our member of parliament, so I don't want to go into detail and repeat it. Our Parliament already has an agenda to discuss, and for the execution of this agenda and for the implementation of its application, we would like to see this work continue. On this occasion, I would like to bring to your attention that there are some turning points in the history of the nations, perhaps 1071, 1299, 1453, 1923, maybe 3 November 2002 and 15 July 2016. And this is the history of which I wish, in my mind, to rule the will of the people, and to make an effort together to rule over the victories of the nation, that we may salute you all again, and I wish you a good day.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit01spe0047par0426	Thank you, Mr. Alparslan. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0047par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 16th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will begin negotiations with the First Amendment bill and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The vote was completed in the first chapter of the Law Bill 388, which was considered the main law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter includes Articles 29 and 57, including Interim Article 1. Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Parsak will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the second chapter. Here you go, Mr. Parsak.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0048par0015	I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the second part of the Companies Bill, 388 rows, and I hereby salute you. Before we share our thoughts on the draft law, our fellow lawmakers expressed their own approaches in the framework of November 3rd, as the session opened today, and we would like to share a situation about what November 3rd meant. November 3rd reminds us of the death of Alparslan Silver, our martyr of Afyonkarahisar Bolvadin, who died forty-one years ago by traitorous bullets, in which I ask for the mercy of the late Alparslan Gühnab from here, to all his loved ones, to all our community. The lyrics of Alparslan Silver, which Alparslan Silver wrote to his fiancée before he became a martyr, are a clear indication that the nationalist (national) movement, the state of the Republic of Turkey, and the indivisible integrity of the nation of Turkey are ahead of everything else. When it comes to the country, the National Movement Party will never back down either 40 years ago or today or tomorrow. Members of parliament, the office of an expert witness is an important institution at a critical point of justice. The developing and changing world brings with it different needs every day, and issues that require various and detailed research methods are the subject of legal disagreements. On the other hand, advances in technology enable new methods of study and analysis, which make the institution's flexibility and efficiency questionable. The creation of a fair, manageable and sustainable system is of great importance at the point of effective and rapid decision-making of the judiciary. It is well known to those who have served at the site of justice and who are awaiting justice from the system. In matters such as competency, competence, diversity, equality, justice, seriousness, and speed, it is an important requirement to change the standard of expert witness system. I find it important in this sense to say that the current Bill of the Act of the Ethics Act was prepared with contributions from different disciplines, such as our ministries, high judiciary, rooms and occupational institutions, SEC, ÜBITAK, various institutions, such as the different disciplines, and that it was also applied to the opinion of officials of the Forensic Medical Association during the study. The National Movement Party has had an approach that has already expressed setbacks in this matter. In fact, as the National Movement Party, we, both in the June 7th elections and in the November 1st elections, shared our assessments of the matter with the saint Turkish nation, which would contribute to the process of administrative and military justice, the selection and control of experts, and to the fulfillment of justice. Honourable lawmakers, in the second part of the Law Bill 388 that we are discussing, there is generally a change in the management and board structure of the Forensic Medical Association; improving working conditions and autonomy rights; increasing the punishment for counterintuitive cognitiveness; determining issues regarding the preparation of expert lists; identifying issues on the record, performance and aspects of such changes are being provided. Respected lawmakers, the proposed bill has been considered positive in some aspects of what I have just expressed, but, unfortunately, its potential to cause new problems includes high regulations, not only in many aspects, but also in many aspects of the current problems. The bill includes approaches that may lead to the commercialisation of expert opinion above all else, which naturally raises questions about the neutrality of a commercialized expert system. On the other hand, the structure of the E.T.A. Consultancy Council, which was envisioned to be established by the bill, and a department of the Justice Department, making criticism of intervention in judicial independence inevitable. The government's tendency to control every issue from one point to one point is understood once again at the expert office and revealed in its full nudity. In politics, a government who tried to control its constituency through the congregations and lost its arm to traitors, and now it stands before us as one of the key handicaps of the bill that could lead to major problems in one person, the President of the Council of Presidents of Forensic Medicine, the President of the Judicial Medical Association. The government, which thinks it's a trick to govern the country, has now entered into the search for expert structures, which can support predetermined, unfair and biased judicial decisions, instead of independent, neutral, and healthy expert reports that will provide judicial decisions, by trying to subvert the judiciary's establishment, with significant impacts on the decisions the judiciary will make. As a result of the 2010 referendum, supported by treacherous calls from the graves of the dead to the use of votes, the government, which gives up judgment to certain and treacherous people, hunting in such a way as to go hunting in such a way, seems to have failed to fully comprehend the need of independent and neutral law for everyone one day, unfortunately, it has failed to give up its desire to intervene in the judiciary. The structural changes envisioned by the law bill at the Forensic Medical Association suggest that a more objective Forensic Medicine is being created instead of a more controlled forensic medicine, not taking into account the warnings of the State Board's warnings at the Centre for Forensic Medicine's independence. In particular, the fact that the Forensic Medicine Agency can be served by private institutions and organisations in matters that are involved in the field of duty is a significant mistake that can lead to the commercialisation of the duties of Forensic Medicine, the practice of law and justice, unfortunately, subcontracted. While increasing the duties and powers of the Forensic Medical Association is a positive initiative, it is not acceptable to insist that structural measures be taken to preserve the independence and neutrality of a institution whose mandates have increased. Honourable lawmakers, these changes that have been attempted to be made at the Forensic Medical Association are clearly outside the scope of the Law, which states that the first article of the bill can serve as an expert witness in the first article of the draft law, and the public institutions and institutions providing scientific and technical opinions at the request of the judicial authorities. Since the Forensic Medicine Agency is a public institution that can provide expert services, how can it be rearranged by a law that is excluded? How can the government, let alone the relevant legislation, defend and praise a plan that has such contradictions within it? It stands before us as a major fact that there are major problems with the agency's expertise and control, which leads to negative effects at the point of justice. But as with everything that's wrong, we've gone over another problem, we've solved another problem, and I'm leaving it to our nation's discretion how right and acceptable it is to take the stand. How will standing up to the boards, the commissions, all sorts of structures that move a structure to be objective, instead of making arrangements to conduct business with individuals, single officials and presidents, and giving authority and responsibilities to more and more people, be defended in the face of a method of getting truth and justice? On July 15th, we need to remember that we need justice more than anything else, as a Parliament that left behind a treacherous coup attempt with the support of its nation, and we need structures that will allow justice to be established and that will allow the judiciary to make impartial and fair decisions. With these thoughts, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0049par0033	Thank you, Mr. Parsak. İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0050par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, our dear people, the bill contains provisions not on the size of the expert office, but rather on the institutional structure of expertise. Unfortunately, this suggests that the main goal of breaking the law is to create an institution that is dependent on the Justice Department, which is to run it, in order for the experts to be in charge. In addition, it is incompatible with the principle of judicial independence that the head of the institution is the Undersecretary of Justice, which is so closely concerned with the judiciary and will play a serious role in providing justice. Therefore, according to the principle of independence, the board must elect its own president. In order for a fair trial to be carried out, there must be an objective, independent way for the parties and the court to apply. Therefore, it is proof of how, in fact, its function is to create a structure in favor of political power, given that only the right to have representatives and occupational institutions as relevant as the members of the judiciary should be included in the advisory board of the current bill. It is also one of the most problematic points in which the obligation to provide specific and technical information is fulfilled and therefore not to be passed on to anyone else as a public duty. Such a task will lead to the opening of a market in the field of expertise and making it an instrument of expertise. The provisions brought in regarding the expert law bill are unfortunately unresolved from solving the problems of the Forensic Medicine Agency's failure to serve objectively and independently and in accordance with the principle of scientificity. In order for the institution to be able to provide a right to a fair trial and an impartial expert witness, it must be removed from the Ministry of Justice and made independent, and a law must be drafted. Therefore, we recommend that these items be removed from the draft text. If we look at the Forensic Medicine Association, as many of my colleagues know, it's a very painful institution with countless examples from the past to today, political and advocacy decisions. Many people have been blamed for crimes they didn't commit, their reports on the murders, many women who were victims of sexual assault have been embezzled in their cases because of their reports, they have been exposed to injustice, many ecological and historical areas with their reports. Now, let the decisions come, let the HESEs come, and let the decisions come for the nuclear power plants come, by politicalizing them in all areas and in all areas. Are you saying? As a matter of fact, lawmakers, it's not always that, it's not that, it's not that, it's that, it's that he's a know-it-all person, and his ally is cruel, it hurts, it hurts. So many lives are blackened, so-called medical, technical, political, our legal lives. But there are many forensics who open up free roads, like Şebnem Kupjancı, like Umit Bicer. However, prison routes or dismissals are admissible to them. I'd like to point out that this, this House, unfortunately, is not a place that lives today or today. Because if we lived today, for example, we would end the war by hand, if we lived today, we would unite freedom of the press, we'd try to stop women's murders by hand, we'd always perform hand-to-hand against child abuse. But, no, this is not a place where the Capitol agenda is about today and what happened today. Therefore, both this state of expertise and this law, frankly, for us, are sound, and are not worth talking about any more. When we don't think about who will be the expert witness, who will be the expert witness, who will report for whom, and who will be on the side of which, and we don't worry about that, the change in the expert's law can be discussed, but it's futile to talk about things that are not practical. Remember yesterday's debate, however, that the prosecutor who investigated the executives and writers of the Republican daily, which is alleged to have been from both the GERP and the GERP, is the defendant in the trial itself. So what happened today? This incident -- which is not an incident -- is a scandal -- has been investigated by journalist Barış Pehlivan, who uncovered this scandal. One doesn't do that just so one doesn't get too suspicious. I mean, he wouldn't do that if he didn't turn up in the dark. But you run the country so unjustly that you don't even see the need to hide the shame. Just like this, what will the law of an expert witness be worth in our lives, which will be carried out in the courts of your government, which makes decisions based on the same kind of soup as these indictments? According to the bill, a second report could be out of the question. Is that a change? So you're looking for singles, singles, even in expert records, as an expert witness. Then what's the need for your headman to make the decisions? It's an unnecessary establishment right now. Yes, we'll pass on that, dear friends. In my opinion, let's look at the Saturday mothers who have been searching for their losses for six hundred and six weeks, and let's look at the families of workers who have been on the 55th watch, seeking justice, who have been sexually assaulted and not corrupted by those experts. Let's look at the women who have been given reports. Come on, let's see what efforts he's made in the Hrant Dink case, which hasn't been brought to justice in ten years, to make sure that the facts don't come out. Let's see what happens in the Ankara Station massacre case, which will be held on November 7th, more recently. Not what expert witness, not what court, but what will be their cause for justice? We're a country that has plenty of experts in the press and in football and in war strategies, and we're almost all men. Everyone knows everything, and they're experts at everything. There's nothing more in the country than an expert witness. Do you know the only thing we've applied for in solutions? The new law is unregistered and uncontroversial. Regardless of criticism and proposals made in the commissions, the new law is the new law, new law in every non-resolvency; new law. Like he's gonna come up with a solution. And in fact, you know what never happens in this country anymore? Whether you have new laws or old laws, what you have in this country is nothing but justice. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0051par0051	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Levent Gök will speak. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0052par0055	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on Bill 388. I salute you all with love. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, if the prosecution is really a gangrenous institution in Turkey, it needs to be corrected, but not by the methods of the bill brought in. Turkey is well ruled, let the law pass, which the ruling party desires in Turkey. And if we start a presidency, oh, great. There's no credibility in the arrangement within the understanding. All institutions have collapsed, all our institutions are bankrupt. Because of the lack of merit, all the staffs are unaware of the state, against the state, and Turkey today has become unmanageable. Of course, the ruling party, which has been in power for 14 years, has a very heavy but heavy flaw. It has not been done, but it has not been done in Turkey; the warnings of the Republican People's Party, intellectuals, democrats have been ignored for years against the threat of a Fetullah Gulen; together, a parallel path has continued to be followed and taken. When you look at the underlying reasons for this troubled picture that Turkey has come from, the facts that appear every day are vast enough to shake Turkey, especially the heavy responsibility of political power. Look, yesterday the former governor of Ankara came to the coup commission. The governor of Ankara sat before the Commission -- Governor of Ankara until two months ago -- and when I was governor of Ankara, the 81 governor of the province was 65, 70, 70, and that number came out after me. We did warn him, but he didn't listen to political power. He said, "Dear friends, until just two months ago, this is the Ankara Governor-General's Office and this is the person who had done it before." Why didn't he rest, fellas? We gave lists. These are the people, don't promote them, these generals. No one listens to us. Now that we've surfaced, we're trying to figure out how to eliminate a threat. E came screaming, screaming. The honest bureaucrats of the state have spoken, the intellectuals, the Democrats, the Republican People's Party has been singing for years. Cumhuriyet daily writer Hikmet Çetinkaya wrote in his newspaper 16 years ago on 2 November 2000. That's exactly what he says, warning Turkey, power, all of us: Fetullahists enter schools with false reports, entering military schools. They move to Parliament, become governors, governors, police chiefs, infiltrates the Turkish Armed Forces. Their goal is to coup, take over the state by military coup in the Turkish Armed Forces. Fetullah Gülen is planning a military coup. You're looking at the point where today, Hikmet Cetkaya, who wrote these, is being investigated for the reasons of the crime, while the Republican newspaper has been making headlines many years ago. My dear friends, these are the days when we suffer from a sense of justice in running a state. He's conducting a bylock investigation, a prosecutor who's being put in jail later because of Lock. Look at the painting, my dear friends. Again, the prosecutor who conducted the investigation against Cumhuriyet daily... a journalist wrote it yesterday, we all learned, we were amazed. There was no Mr. Minister of Justice here, but we told the three ministers and all the Justice Department staff, the bureaucrats over and over again: is such a claim true? The prosecutor who investigated the Cumhuriyet daily, prosecutor Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who issued the detention order, has filed a complaint against the Court of Appeals, 16. Number 28 in the criminal department file. Two hours of silence, my dear friends, two hours of silence. Mr. Secretary, there really was a crisis here yesterday, and I hope and hope that you will be able to resolve this crisis here in a moment. What's going on? He couldn't answer that question for hours with all the bureaucrats of the Justice Department that the state had behind him, and we finally learned from the Deputy Prime Minister's statement that this prosecutor, the Supreme Court, is the 16th. 28 on the Hi Tevhid case at the Department of Corrections. He's a full-blown Now, how does this work, Mr. Secretary? I mean, what doesn't work here in the house of justice? I mean, are the government's infiltrators, or are the state's government just infiltrated? So we're dealing with a weird dilemma like this. I'm having the prosecution bring in an indictment of this prosecutor in an environment where the handle and the hay are mixed. The Justice Department staff can't give the ministers any more information, but we find the indictment as the main opposition party, and when we read that indictment, the indictment begins with the following lines, I repeat the statement of the indictment in which the prosecutor who investigated the Cumhuriyet daily was tried: in our claim, the suspect judge and the republic's prosecutors have committed crimes which have been made in the national and international arena for nearly 40 years, which have been used illegally in the world's most secret and operational way of action, according to the Fetullahçı terrorist organization. Now, this is the painting. Why is Cumhuriyet daily accused, Hikmet Çetinkaya, other friends? Wasn't it?......................................................................................................... Who's running the investigation? He's a prosecutor on trial in this case. I point out carefully that everyone is innocent until a court order is made. As a lawyer, I carefully follow that principle. Everyone has the right to a fair trial, Mr. Secretary, but since Ergenekon has been sued in the Balyaz cases before, you haven't promoted many generals, you've retired them or they've been arrested. Why? Because they have a case. Now, in such a picture, look at the treatment that a newspaper the age of our Republic of Turkey faces, such as the Republic of Turkey, has been subjected to. This painting breaks the sense of justice, Mr. Secretary. Turkey doesn't deserve a painting like this. Turkey must establish its democracy, human rights, basic rights and freedoms, legal security at the highest level. It's our job to question them. I asked about it for hours yesterday, and your group reacted -- let's face it -- but there was no response from the bureaucrats, the ministers, my dear friends. Don't I have to question that? Isn't a journalist supposed to write an article he found? Today we learned a much worse painting. The Istanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office is calling today to testify on this claim that it has come to claim that it is well documented and well-versed. Do you know why he's calling? For exposing an officer who's fighting terrorism. What officer? He's a suspect in the indictment as part of a Fetullahist terrorist organization. What is it? Expose an officer fighting terrorism. Mr. Secretary, I mean, that's all there is to it. I mean, isn't it a journalist's job to publish a story that he trusts in his knowledge, trusts in his document? Isn't it our job to question them? Now, this journalist will testify to the prosecution. Look at the strangeness of this: a journalist will testify that he has disclosed a staff fighting terrorism because he has documented a case against a prosecutor for the crime he committed under the Fetullahist terrorist organization. So, now, are you struggling with the situation or not? Let's be clear about this, my dear friends. What terrorist prosecutor? Stop fighting terrorism, he's a prosecutor on trial for his crimes with the Fetullahist terrorist organization. There are 58 defendants, Chief Prosecutor Recep Tayyip Erdogan. A suspect in a case involving Recep Tayyip Erdoğan will investigate the Cumhuriyet daily and a journalist who has done this will also be investigated as to why you reported it. Mr. Secretary, consciences ache, we need justice. Turkey isn't on the good track. Turkey can't go on like this. On the 15th of July, we successfully survived a coup attempt, but we may not be able to get through this, and it's dangerous. Turkey doesn't deserve a painting like this. Please step in, do as you need to, and, as you pointed out to me yesterday, please share with the public the facts about this matter. That's what I expect of you. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0053par0067	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Now, Sivas MP Hilmi Bilgin will speak on behalf of himself. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0054par0071	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself in the second chapter of the Companies Act, 388 rows under discussion. I hereby salute your delegation and our beloved nation. At the beginning of my words, I thank all those who fought for the financial and spiritual development of our nation, who raised thousands of young men in this sense, and who lost their lives yesterday, the great political and statesman Kork Özal. Dear lawmakers, November 3, 2002 -- today -- is the day when the EC troops began their journey of service to our nation, led by our founding President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. On that day, our nation, the word and the decision are the nation's. The government, which preceded the nation's service by saying, "Let the people live. The EC has opened its way of serving the people whose understanding is central to politics, and has thus continued uninterrupted from that day until then. We, the AK PARTY staff, with the power and the power we receive from the nation, the agenda and the route that our nation set before our nation, will continue to walk with them in love on the first day. On this occasion, from 2002 to today, I give thanks to our holy nation, who have supported us in the 10 elections, who have not left us alone. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to briefly explain why the bill we're discussing is needed. Problems in the field of expertise and proposals for solutions to these problems are a subject that has been discussed in our legal system for many years and is still in search of solutions. In this context, institutions and organisations, particularly our Ministry of Justice, have done research on solution proposals and have announced their solution proposals to the public. In studies so far, problems in the field of expertise have been stressed due to a lack of institutional structure in matters such as education, control and selection of experts. In this sense, the Tenth Development Plan was intended to speed up the trial in the Judiciary Reform Strategy, which was announced on 17 April 2015, to improve the expertise mechanism, to review the expertise institution, to create an institutional restructuring and effective system. The application has many criticisms for the expertise institution, experts and practices on this subject. Criticism does not only undermine confidence in experts and the authority, but it does have a negative effect on trust in justice. In light of these statements, the bill we're discussing is intended to make the institutional restructuring of the entity, which has been proposed as a proposal for a solution to the problems proposed over the years, an active system of the system. I'd like to brief you on the arrangements made in the second part of the bill: The bill's 29th and 37th Articles of Forensic Medicine have arrangements for the Forensic Medicine Agency to work within a structure required by modern science, and for the structure of the organization to be structured in accordance with these principles. Under Article 38 of the bill, the failure to comply with the provisions of the expert opinion in the law is being organised as a verb that requires disciplinary action on the part of judges and prosecutors, and in this case it is intended to be condemned. In Articles 39 and 41 of the bill, amendments to the Publicisation Act are made to ensure unity and coherence in the provisions of the Computation Act. Under Article 42 of the bill, the punishment for counterintuitive prosecution is increased in order to ensure that crime can be dealt with more effectively and deterrence. General knowledge has been adopted as the basic principle of the bill, which cannot be applied to the expert on what is possible to be resolved by the legal information required by the practice of experience or judge. In order to carry out this goal and to address the hesitation in the practices, Article 43 of the bill is arranged. In Articles 42, 44 to 52, various laws have been changed in order to comply with regulations made with the Computation Act. Mr. President, the bill that we're talking about envisions the creation of an institutional structure that has been on the agenda for a long time, at the point of the resolution of the relevant institutions and institutions, and above all, has an important function in our legal system to solve the problems of the expert system. I wish you all the best luck in our legal system, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0055par0086	Thank you, Mr. Scholar. The last speaker on behalf of him is İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0056par0090	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with respect and respect. I made a promise on the bill of expert opinion. Of course, it's become an institution and a practice that has caused a lot of blood loss in court so far. It had to be compiled, recovered, needed, but should it be done this way, it's a separate discussion. Because when we look at the world, there are systems that have been released in terms of the expert agency, that are left to the judge's discretion, and there are systems that are recorded in this way. If you look at any of the other systems that have been recorded or released, there is a provision in Article 74 of our Constitution, which, if you look at any of them -- Mr. Presidents of the Commission, and Mr. Secretary -- that will be useful if they listen -- that the right of foreigners to petition depends on the principle of reciprocity. While the right to petition is in accordance with the principle of reciprocity in our Constitution, we also recognize the authority available to us foreigners. So other than a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, Russia, America, Israel, whatever country you want, it's quite comfortable, since there is no obstacle to this foreign element here, they'll be able to make an expert opinion in Turkey. My complaint from Mr. Justice and the Commission is that if the principle of reciprocity is wanted in Article 74 of our Constitution, if my Turkish citizen cannot be an expert on the outside of the country, not in Germany, not in the United States, not in Israel, not in Russia, not in India, not here. In terms of this constitutional right, in terms of the principle of reciprocity, at least if the state of the Republic of Turkey is still not a colonial state, then the principle of reciprocity of political independence in terms of economic independence must be included in the 74th article of our Constitution. Otherwise, it will be a law that serves foreigners. We're coming -- the second issue is also -- Mr. Secretary, if this expert opinion law is a law that will serve Agha Holdings or Genghis Construction again, we'll be looking for the old one, the corporate expert. So, what was chapter one, and what was all the expertise they had so far? It'll depend on the individual, it'll depend on the person's integrity, it'll depend on the driver's license. You started the company; where's the driver's license, the merit? The company was founded in Istanbul, opened offices in 81 districts. As our other speaker friend just said, this is going to be a business transaction. So, the big companies that are available will have taken over this area again. Again, another handicap: The 20th article of the clear, clear Turkish Penal Code states: "No punishment can be given to people." Well, the current expert has filed a false report; there is a sentence in Article 285 of our existing Penal Code, says: "Sir, if you file a report against the truth, you will be punished from here to here." Well, you have submitted your expert opinion to the person who has submitted it, you have submitted it. You might say, "Sir, the expert witness, the person who edits the report." Then remove the concept of expertise from there. Since you have lifted the judge's right of appreciation for setting a list -- in accordance with this current legal arrangement -- in terms of the right of approval -- it violates the rule of law of the existing Constitution. I've been able to find a better judge, if the gentleman is a better expert in his field -- let's say our member of parliament -- and if the person on the list is not academically, in terms of knowledge, in terms of hardware, wouldn't I have the right to take advantage of a more qualified expert in terms of the freedom of rights under Article 36 of the Constitution? And that's blocked. In other words, addiction to the list violates freedom of rights and the rule of law in Article 2 of our Constitution. I ask that these criticisms be taken into account, and these flaws in the arrangement be taken care of. There's so much more to say. I'll be saying that as soon as the time comes. Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0057par0101	Thank you. Now, we're going to do a question-and-answer process for 15 minutes. Seven and a half minutes of this period are reserved for you to ask questions, and seven and a half minutes for the Minister to answer these questions. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0058par0104	Mr. Secretary, during your absence yesterday, I asked a question about the prosecutor who conducted the investigation into Cumhuriyet daily and who processed journalists in Cumhuriyet daily. It took us two hours to get his answer. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan has filed a complaint against Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan on the 28th trial of Salam Tevhid. I asked him if he had a suspect, if he knew anything about it. However, later on, Mr. Mehmet Simsek stated that he was the defendant of this case. With another development today, we have learned that a journalist who uncovered this issue has been called by the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office to investigate on the charge of exposing a government official who is fighting terrorism. Is this claim true? First of all, if you could enlighten us under the information given by Mr. Mehmet Simsek... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is it true that this investigation into the Republic newspaper was given to this prosecutor as a lawyer -- that I am underlining a case that is connected to the Republic -- that everyone is innocent until they are judged, and that this principle is carefully underlineed? Will there be a process as a Department of Justice or as an HSYK? In addition, do you find it appropriate to open an investigation into a journalist who wrote this article, with an understanding of the right to information or the right to learn from the community? Is there such an investigation or has it begun? We're asking you again and awaiting your answers, sir, as you have stated in the brief assessment of these matters yesterday that you will make a detailed statement.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0059par0110	Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0060par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you know there was an explosion on August 20 in Gaziantep, Şahinbey district of Beybahce district. 57 of our citizens were killed in an ISIS attack on a Kurdish wedding. So far, all we know about the perpetrator -- what Mr. President said -- is that there's a 14-year-old boy in a Messi jersey, but that information is not confirmed by local sources. I wonder who gave this information to Mr. President. Is this information accurate? I have a second question on the same subject: Ramazan Ayhan is 9 years old, his body has not yet been identified because autopsies have been performed in an environment where no one, independent lawyers or medical examiners have attended. I wonder if the funerals got mixed up. Do they have information on the whereabouts of Ramadan Ayhan? The mother of Ramadan Ayhan has not yet found a tomb to read Fatiha on.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0061par0114	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0062par0115	I'm asking the Minister of Justice: the investigation against Cumhuriyet daily, its executives and writers is not a normal investigation, but a political investigation. While the Deputy Prime Minister's statement said that the follow-up was due to a previous complaint, why was this statement not carried out before? However, as a result of today's prosecution, I'd like to ask you what the purpose of the interrogation is by raiding the Cumhuriyet daily as a result of the investigation. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0061par0117	Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0063par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, today, our Şırnak MP, Ferhat Encu, was taken away from the country to participate in a programme in Brussels, and his passport was seized and his ban was imposed on him two hours ago. On what grounds was the passport of an undeclared deputy seized, I'd like the Minister to answer that. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0064par0121	Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0065par0122	Mr. Minister, today President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has spoken to the minister that the German Minister has been anxiously monitoring operations into newspapers supporting terrorist organisations. And you as a lawyer, how do you view this statement as a person who always talks about the personality of crimes or the purity of innocence? Isn't it a crime that the President declares terrorists in the newspapers that have just been tried, that it affects the judiciary, that it affects the action of the judiciary?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0064par0123	Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0066par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, about a decade ago, there were a lot of racist spellings against Syrian Arabs in Gaziantep, where there were MOBESE records. Clearly, the fact that many ISIS militants remain with Syrian citizens is a sign that there will be serious ethnic distress in Gaziantep in the coming process. Has there been any investigation into these MOBESE records and these racist and segregational spellings reflected in the press? If this is not taken, Gaziantep may actually have this internal problem in the coming process, and I'd like to give him a warning now.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0064par0126	No more questions. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0067par0128	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, an answer to the question Mr. Levent Gök. was sent yesterday, but I'd like to make a repetitive assessment on the basis of a question today. Public Prosecutor Murat İnam Tevhid, who is conducting an ongoing investigation into Cumhuriyet daily, is now the Supreme Court of Appeal 16. He's in the Department of Corrections. He is mentioned here as one of the defendants, and his trial continues without arrest. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors has granted permission to prosecute 54 judges and prosecutors in this case, and the case is being filed. 49 of them are now out of line of work; 49 people have been cut off from their profession before the KHKs left, while the remaining 46 have been cut off from their profession because it is not acceptable for them to stay after the KHK. As for the other five, there was not enough data or conviction that would require them to be suspended from the Fetullahist terrorist organization's connection and accession, so there was no suspension, and there was no suspension. Of course, this will also wait for the outcome of the trial; at the moment, the HSYK has come to this conclusion and has done such an application according to its data. As a result of the trial, the decision of the HSYK will change because the trial will produce new data and evidence. Murat Inam, this is about the person mentioned in the indictment in the Tevhid case... He's made a request once for wiretaps, technical surveillance, private audio and video recordings. That's what's going on over there with the illegal, illegal wiretaps and surveillance. That, of course, is a matter of trial. It's about the reporter who did the story... when I called our Republican prosecutor while you were talking on the stand, what is it? Is there? In the first information he gave me, I don't have it right now, but I'll look into it. He said, "Let's go back." They're looking at it right now, and when I get back, I'm also going to share that information, because that's the first time I've heard it here. Hopefully, I'll have his information in a moment. Of course, I find it unfortunate that the person tried in a case should be given this kind of investigation. It's better not to be. However, the allegations in this investigation against Cumhuriyet daily, or rather, the evidence is not from the prosecutor, not the prosecutor, but evidence, which means the investigation is ongoing because of other evidence, and this investigation is being carried out in that framework. However, it would have been better, more accurate, if only such an assignment hadn't been made. And I say that every time, because it's the basis for these arguments. You didn't have to, someone else could have done it, but that's how it turned out. Of course, we don't have the authority to change prosecutors, we don't have the duty; it's completely within the work department of the Attorney General's office. Here's the attorney general who's running these investigations. He's filing files among his own prosecutors. And I'll make it very clear that there was no malice here because I personally took an interest in this issue yesterday, after it came up here, and I spoke to the Attorney General of the Republic and I spoke to our VPOP in detail about it. That's where I share the information I got from both of them. If there had been an opinion on the FEE contact, membership and association, the HSYC would not have hesitated on this issue, which has thus far decided that it is inappropriate for 3,456 judges and prosecutors to remain in the profession. I believe him because everyone believes that this step must be taken to ensure the credibility of the judiciary, to maintain its independence and neutrality. We've just received information from our Attorney General: there is no investigation, as he says, that there is no interview, that there is no interview with the journalist who made the report, or that there is no investigation, given to me by our Istanbul Public Prosecutor's investigation, which is no such investigation. Therefore, I did not need to answer the other four. You're asking for my opinion there, but this is... the 6th article of the Anti-Terror Law right now, the prosecutor who investigates these issues of such terrorism, in the case of certain elements related to judges, as a crime to make a statement. There is one thing in Article 6 of the Anti-Terror Law, the law, but the other will be my personal opinion. If you'll excuse me, I don't want to share my personal opinion here, and I don't see it right because the trial process is going on, and I don't see it right. 56 of our citizens were killed there as a result of a DEAS attack on Gaziantep. Of course, the Gaziantep Public Prosecutor's Office is conducting an investigation into this. Mr. President's information about the person described as a live bomb is accurate information. There's nothing wrong with that information.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0068par0136	The state's attorney's office doesn't approve, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0067par0137	The Gaziantep, of course, has very detailed studies, not only on this issue, but serious investigations are going on both in Gaziantep and all over Turkey. Police and other security units are continuing their search and investigation of our intelligence units. The DEA is a common enemy of Turkey, of the Turkish nation, of Muslims, of Islam, of all of us. I would like to say once again that if the whole world gave up, Turkey would not give up the fight against the DEA. Because this terrorist organization is the enemy of humanity, and it will continue to fight. Now, about this boy, these DNA comparisons were made with the parents, and his identity has been identified. On his parents' hesitation...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0069par0140	Mr. Secretary, your time is up, and if you complete...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0067par0141	If you'll excuse me, let me finish this.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0069par0142	Let's turn on the mike.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0067par0143	His identity has been identified, the family has hesitated, the analysis has been repeated, renovated once again, and the result has not changed. The family's persistent refusal to accept the child has been found in harmony with the number of areas that have been studied and over international standards -- there are some technical things here, if you will permit -- 30 autosomal 27 Y-STR, 12 presidential X-STR. It is the Istanbul Biology Research Agency, which analyses DNA, and it is an acretive agency according to international standards. According to the DNA analysis, the child is the child of the family. I mean, there's no hesitation here, but the family, as we just said...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0070par0144	Those fingerprints, the hair...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0067par0145	But look, all of it, all of it, all of its hesitations, it's been examined in the international standard. Well, there may be such a hesitation in the family, and I understand that, but the only answer we can give is the answer to science. What we have now... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...scientific data suggests that this answer was given to him. I'll answer the other questions in writing.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0071par0149	Well, Mr. Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0072par0150	In fact, these questions are important, Mr. President, so if you'll excuse me, the Minister would better answer them all.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0071par0151	I'm connected by the times, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0073par0152	So I can answer all of them, Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0071par0153	Mr. Toğrul, I'm tied up for a while. Then, when we're on break, you can meet with the Minister. I don't have a position to do it now.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0073par0154	It's about Ferhat Encu. It's about the decision of the Şırnak Criminal Judgeship of Peace.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0071par0155	Mr. Secretary, your microphone is off, are you going to say something, or should we open it?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0073par0156	There's something going on with the MP.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0071par0157	Let's open it up, give it a minute more.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0073par0158	The curfew against Şırnak MP Ferhat Encu has been imposed by Şırnak Criminal Court of Peace and the law has carried out its application.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0074par0159	When, Minister?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0073par0160	This has a history thing, but with file 2016/490... it doesn't have a date, it doesn't have a date, but there's a...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0074par0161	A decision made two hours earlier today, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0073par0162	I mean, we don't have his history, but we do have his file number, filed by the magistrate. It's written by the police, dated 3/11/2016, but we don't have the judge's decision date.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0075par0163	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0076par0165	Mr. President, thank you, Mr. Secretary. For one thing, in the investigation into Cumhuriyet daily, we take it as an important issue for the defendant to say that he did not approve of the indictment or the investigation. However, on the other issue, the journalist concerned with İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office's case 2016/ 131028 has been called to investigate. Mr. Secretary says he's interviewing the Attorney General, that there's no investigation. I hope, and I wish, as Mr. Minister said, that journalist was not summoned to investigate in the frame that I just described, but I also present to the Minister the 2016/131028 preparation number, provided he gives this number. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I hope and hope it's a different file.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0077par0170	Thank you. Congressmans, the talks on the second chapter are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions on Article 29: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the terms of the declaration of the 388 rows that have been discussed in the form of change in the terms of the first sentence of the First Amendment of the Computation Act. Mustafa Kalaycı İsmail Faruk Aksu Erkan Haberal Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Kadir Koçdemir Mustafa Mit Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 29 (2659) and Article 13 (b) shall be replaced in the following manner, which is added to the article (1). Cemal Okan Yüksek Tahsin Tarhan Kazım lion Mehmet Gökdağ Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Dursun Çiçek ίb-Defensely changing the duties of the presidents and members of the Councils of Education and the heads of the apartments in order to replace the duties of the heads of the Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 29 of Law Bill 388 be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Merkel Danış Beştaş Celal Doğan Mahmut Toğrul Kadri Yıldırım Mizgin Irgat Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0078par0197	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0077par0198	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0079par0199	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0077par0200	Mr. Kadir Yıldırım will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0080par0203	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today is the second anniversary of the death of Hazreti Omar, the second caliph of the Prophet and the symbol of justice. I'd like to share my views on the Bill of Awareness with a few examples of this great figure, especially our ruling party, which is part of its name, and especially our Minister of Justice -- which is here. He removed his immunity as head of state for the sake of independence, justice and equality in the judiciary and joined the court as a humble citizen and testified. Here's the thing: Ubey bin Ka'b complained to the court that Hazreti Omari, a head of state, the court's judge on that day was also one of the Prophet's inspired writers, Zayd bin Stabil. Judge Zayd, as two opponents, has called the plaintiff, Ubey bin Ka'b, and Hazreti Ömer (the defendant) to the court. When Übey bin Ka'b came in, the judge who didn't disturb Zayd, Hazreti Omar, when he stood up for respect when he came in, warned him: "This is your first injustice, if, in your eyes, you are not worthy of the judge's office if no one is equal with Omar, you are clearly recording it in his own work. A second example: In a law that the head of state, caliph, and lawmaker, Hazreti Omar, wanted to rule out, an expert was corrected by a woman by a decision about her error, her unconstitutionality, with a suggestion. The essence of this is that Hazreti Omar wants to place a quota, a limit to the amount of mihr paid to women during marriage in a Friday period, but a woman in the mosque at the time called the Court, who was in the books at the time, silenced her with a verse from Hazreti Ömeri Kur'an, a law that he brought to the court, and that Hazreti Omar de.. So, Hazreti Omar, never once, let go of the constitution. He did not enter into a luxury and instruction, such as once. He never said that I know everything, but you can know as much as I allow you. He never said that I am the head of state, I have immunity, and you cannot call me to court with a normal citizen. He did not say, but he came forward as a normal citizen with a normal citizen. And who are you to interfere with a caliph, a caliph like me, who warned her in the mosque? Or... you're making my mistake. She didn't say, she couldn't say, because the sex of her expert was not important, the accuracy of science was important there. So he accepted the measure and acted accordingly. To the head of all our parties. Thank you. My respects.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0081par0211	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 29 (2659) and Article 13 (b) shall be replaced in the following manner, which is added to the article (1). ίb-Defensely changing the duties of the presidents and members of the Councils of Education and the heads of the apartments in order to replace the duties of the heads of the Cemal Okan Yüksel (Eskişehir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0082par0219	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0081par0220	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0083par0221	Mr. President, I'm going to say a sentence and then say my opinion. I asked for Mr. Gök's file number on the investigation, and there is no such investigation at this time, and I repeat it once again.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0084par0223	Mr. Secretary, they called him in for a deposition on Monday.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0083par0224	I'm sharing information that I've been given right now. The official information I've been given is that there is no such investigation.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0084par0225	I mean, I'm listening to that, of course. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0083par0226	I, uh, just got off the phone with our attorney general himself, and he told us so. Okay?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0084par0227	When they sent this to you, they informed him that our friend had been called into the investigation on Monday, which is where we reported it, but we got it. Let's see.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0083par0228	That's what we're getting, I'm transmitting. We don't agree with the motion.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0085par0230	You don't agree with the motion. Mr Muharrem Man will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Man.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0086par0234	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on Article 29 of the Companies Act, 388 rows. I salute the High Council. Since the bill is on the agenda today, NGOs, academics, members of the judiciary are worried about it, and very serious criticisms are being brought forward. Because the state of our judgment is clear. Unfortunately, our courts continue as a parallel structure to the judicial system because our judges can't specialize, and the vast majority of the criminal and legal cases in our country end up on the basis of expertise. Of course it's a serious problem. With the structure of the existing HSYK, the power is unfortunately tied to the judiciary itself. Today, in Turkey, in our country, there is no talking about an independent judiciary, the rule of law. And now you're completely in control of the judiciary by being fully committed to the Justice Department, which is now part of the executive agency. However, what needs to be done, not done, is to build a structure that needs to be done, that needs to be done, that needs to be done, that needs to be done, that needs to be done, that needs to be done, that our courts can't be consulted, and that expertise can't be put on the throne, and that needs to improve the overall quality. Because, in the end, our citizens are always the victims. See, in the 2015 EU Progress Report, the system of information is still functioning as a parallel legal system and does not improve the overall quality, while the judicial system should not be implemented in a way that will not be able to replace judges because of its structure in which there is an indiscriminate traffic in terms of the workload. In the Supreme Court, we have to make it a priority in the local courts as well as in the consultation between the Supreme Court agencies. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as our Minister of Justice is here, I have asked him and I have requested from him and from this stand a question about the execution, but he did not answer it in his speech. I'd like to make an assessment of that because they're here, and I'd like to ask him again. Look, there are very valuable lawyers under the roof of this House. I am No. 13 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Basic Freedoms. I'd like to read you the first three articles of the lu Protocol. This protocol was signed at your time on January 9, 2004, and published in the Official Gazette, and entered into force: 1-The death penalty has been lifted. No one can be punished or executed. Article 2 - 15 of the contract. Based on the clause, the provisions of this Protocol are inextricably untasteable. Article 3 of contract 57. On the basis of the clause, no hesitation can be put regarding the provisions of this Protocol. And this international agreement, this contract, is superior to our internal law in the 90th article of our Constitution. So I think, Mr. Justice Minister, at this time of the constant screams of execution by elected officials, it is imperative that this death penalty, despite this protocol and despite our Constitution, explain how to deliver it, because our Minister of Justice is a lawyer, his views are very, very important to us. Look, what our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, said in 2007, when Bahçeli demanded the death of his son, he had an actor's side. He sends me rope, he says, "Al, execute me." We live in a state of law, where executions become life imprisonment. It's also necessary to talk about execution at a time like this, how far away it is from the law. He doesn't know this. If we're living in a legal state today and we've ruled the execution out by law, please let's put an end to this discussion and act in accordance with the law. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0087par0246	Thank you, Mr. Man. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the terms of Article 29 of the Companition Act No. 388 which has been discussed in the form of change. Kamil Aydın (Erzurum) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0088par0253	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0087par0254	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0089par0255	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0087par0256	Mr. Ruhi Ersoy will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0090par0259	Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are in the process of legalizing evaluations on the concept of cognitiveness. The concept of bilkish is related to individuals known as intellectual men and white beards, leader of the Turkish culture and Turkish tradition. These are people who are respected in society, along with what time, conditions, life, tradition have accumulated, and those who have problems with many issues accept this opinion and the method of solving the problem that white beard has set, and there is a consensus in society. In fact, I think it's about adaptation of these structures, such as public supervision, ombudsmanism, and the acquish of Turkish culture, that although the concept of ombudsmanism and its name may seem to have come from the international Western literature, I think we'd be doing good things in terms of the concepts that exist between us and the uniqueness of our own acquisite. In this context, in the geography of which every politician has his own politics, they have contact with the leaders of opinion in the region, they have contacts with experts; and where does life go? What is everyday life? What do you recommend? There is a place where he has a pulse. The former politicians also know this very well, whether it's uncle or local or something. Did you meet with someone who's a good person? Or did Uncle Or Falanca say about this, didn't he? In fact, there's also a public knowledge and intuition here. Yes, politics must feed here, but with reason, with rational policies, it must take precautions. In this case, when you take this stand, this peanut is not worth anything. Tell me from there, so that my heart cools. I want to express it from here, as a form of the word of those experts who called me from the plaintive. Our Osmaniye is a very important production centre in Turkey in the production of peanuts. Although there are some initiatives in the process of transforming production into an integrated plant and industry in some way, it usually does the labor and production of the work, and it usually sends it to the desiccated sector. Dear lawmakers, products can only get back at the price of five or six years ago this year. The farmer's labor, diesel, fertilizer money, and the cost of its production are serious problems. The tradesman, who made money on this, was seriously victimized and his most desires -- just as in the Black Sea -- were in nuts -- were generally considered to be a standard of this place by the state's hands, according to general recluses. Here's the motto of our unions and NGOs, who are quickly becoming modern experts, as well as that expert and experts say, there is a way between Kadirli and Osmaniye in our country. Our mayor says: "I was going this way to Adana when I went to high school, and he was still the same way. I think he's 50 or so years old. We want this to be a double road -- the deputy of the ruling party agrees with us on this -- and I want to tell you from here that this is a double road. Also, we have a state hospital, which is built on the contributions of Mr. State Gardener in the 57th government. There's talk of a hospital capable of 600 beds. His fate is yet to be determined. And our current state hospital is literally, physically, unable to handle the potential of patients and their employees. We want the work done quickly. In fact, one of the things we really want, and one of the things that I'm proposing here, is that a medical school hospital is being built, research, practice hospitalized. We don't just want his bed capacity to increase, but we want serious new units to come to our city as health care. We'd like to address some of the work that we've made in the coming days about our organised industry and our city's sailing. We intended to present here today what came to us from experts with the concept of cognitiveness. I want to thank the National Party for this opportunity. I look forward to the positive support of our motion, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0091par0269	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are three motions in Article 30: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of the 388th Amendment, we propose that the title of the first sentence of the 388th Amendment shall be changed to the subtitle of the article. Mustafa Kalaycı İsmail Faruk Aksu Kamil Aydın Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Erkan Haberal Kadir Koçdemir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 388 of the Act of the Statement (Islamic Law) and Article 2659 of the Law be replaced in the following manner. Cemal Okan Yüksel Tahsin Tarhan Mehmet Gökdağ Kazim Arslan Dursun Çiçek Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu The working procedures and foundations of the expanded experts' delegation of the Physical and Traffic Development Offices are organised by the relevant regulations. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 30th article of the Common Law Bill, 388 rows, be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Merkel Danış Beştaş Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0092par0297	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0091par0298	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0093par0299	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0091par0300	Mr. Mahmut Toğrul of Gaziantep will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0094par0303	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. When I asked Mr. Minister about our Şırnak MP a moment ago, he said, "The court has decided." Dear friends, law is completely political today, and all decisions are political now. And that's the same thing that we're talking about today, when it comes to it, it's used for the same purpose. Right now, the pressures and atrocities on all public personnel are also political. Look, when you removed the public workers of KESK, you based them on two basic foundations. One of them left work on 12 October or 13 October because of the October 10th Gar explosion, and the other, during the demolition war in Kurdish provinces, left work one day on December 29th so that educators, children could go to school. The unions made those decisions. Dear friends, I'd like to bring to your attention the decision that the ECHR has made today: the ECHR has decided today that the punishment for leaving a job is a union rights violation, and the teachers will be paid 153,000 lira. Dear friends, for the two reasons that I've just said -- both of which the union has decided -- it's imperative for union members to comply with the decisions the union has made, and they can't be punished for it. The charges of this are neither domestic law nor international law, normized, but you, due to these two reasons, removed tens of thousands of educators from KESK, the messenger, and suspended him without proper investigation. Dear friends, these will return from court one by one tomorrow. So, will the palace pay for these compensations, or will the AKP people pay for them out of their own pocket, or will they pay for their taxes? Why are you putting these political decisions on my citizen? Why would our citizen be forced to pay? Dear friends, none of this is legal, I just said, political. Look, yesterday, I attended a press conference with KESK. The members of the HABER-SEN were in session, and then they held a press conference. You think if we take these public workers under control, fear is contagious, fear is contagious, we scare everyone, we intimidate society, you're wrong, precious friends, courage is contagious. We and our friends bravely discussed how we could be more organized, more resistant to this persecution at that press conference. And you think you can digest these workers with your fears. HABER-SEN has the salutation, it will never sink, on the contrary, by bringing this organization, this resistance, this courage, into society, by encouraging society, to resist your persecution to the end. Dear friends, the decision on Ferhat Encu... Mr. Secretary, you can't even punish until a case -- which isn't settled -- is being read in the House, but you're up today to prevent our deputy from coming out. They're all political. Once again, you have detained our co-chairs in Kandira, banished them all the way from Diyarbakır to Kandira. Today, our people went to visit their co-chairs, the KJA spokesman, and you stopped them in Kandira, without any law at the entrance. What's the motive? There's no motive, the motive is purely political. Reason: You want a political environment like this, you want to frighten society, you want to digest it, you want to make no noise at your cruelty. Like I said, fear is as contagious as courage is, and this society is brave enough to tell you that it will not kneel, it will resist, and I give you respect.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0095par0313	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 388 of the Act of the Statement (Islamic Law) and Article 2659 of the Law be replaced in the following manner. Muharrem Man (Chanakkale) and his friends The working procedures and foundations of the expanded experts' delegation of the Physical and Traffic Development Offices are organised by the relevant regulations. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0096par0321	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0095par0322	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0097par0323	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0095par0324	Ankara MP Murat Emir will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Emir.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0098par0327	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0095par0328	One moment, Mr. Emir. Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Here, Mr. Emir, I'm rebooting your time.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0099par0331	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. This bill, brought to the basis of the judicial independence, and the broad acceptance of judicial decisions in our society, includes a great deal of flaws and flaws within it. Of course, such a law is needed, of course, today our justice mechanism, which has been dragged down with the help of the AKP's power, needs to be corrected from all sides, but not by such a law. Dear friends, the judiciary must be independent, and the institution of expertise, which is an integral part of the judiciary, must be granted independence. However, what lies within the essence of this bill, this bag of law, is to somehow make expert authority a wing of the administration, to take control of the administration, and to look for ways to re-intervene the judiciary with expert experts, experts. If it wasn't for this, I mean, Mr. Secretary, we're bringing in a better trial. We're trying to make his expertise more effective, faster, safer, more respectable. They might say, "But if that's the purpose, then there's no doubt that the provisions of the judges and courts, which are in the 138th Amendment of our Constitution, should have been included in this bill, but we can't see them. Dear friends, I'm a medical examiner, not a medical expert, as well as a medical expert in my profession, but I'm going to try to express to you, on this occasion, the implications of this law. For one thing, it's important to know that expertise is part of the medical profession. Tababet No. 1219 is considered to be a doctor's expert duty in the 11th Article of the Dair Law to the Style of the Squats. Beyond that, the Medical Deontology Charter clearly states that the medical profession must be independent. Now, while you're at it, you're looking to record doctors, specialists in your field, perhaps the best experts in that area. Why? The answer to that question is important. Why do you need this? So he's going to finish college, he's going to be a doctor, he's going to be a major, he's going to be an expert on something, he's going to be a deeper, he's going to be the expert on it, but he won't be able to be an expert on it unless he's registered. There's no rational explanation for this. This is just an extension of your understanding of how we control it, how we control it, how it happens to us, and how we evaluate it. That's what we're seeing. What's he saying? ▪ By what right, by what authority will the regulations determine, determine, or register, or remove from the record? Dear friends, this is the need and the need of the administration to record experts and especially medical experts and to leave them between the two lips and to violate both the open Constitution and the principles of law. Dear friends, you're talking about an education: We're going to give basic training. What training? Sir, we're going to teach you about reporting. Why is the scope of this not clear? If that's the purpose, then it must be written here within the law. You, now, are taking expert experts to basic education; it's unclear who will give this training, who will give it to you, who will give it to you for how long, who will not know how much, when you will assume that you have passed that basic education. So all of this is actually a result of the effort to do it under the administration, under the administration and under the administration -- that control is already in the law -- to do so. Of course, there's a five-year problem here. This is a troubled area. He's already an attending, an expert on a subject. You say work for five years to become a person. That's wrong, too. Of course, since I don't have enough time, I can't get into the matter of the Forensic Medical Association, but the Forensic Medical Association already has a law, and the law needs to be changed. If the goal is an independent, scientific institution that monitors, expands, and contributes to independent judiciary, it is expected to be done with the opinion of the Forensic Medical Association and everyone, especially universities and forensic sciences. In that sense, I once again declare that these errors and flaws within this bill must be corrected, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0100par0341	Thank you, Mr. Emir. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of the 388th Amendment, we propose that the title of the first sentence of the 388th Amendment shall be changed to the subtitle of the article. Sea Depboy (Admin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0101par0348	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0100par0349	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0102par0350	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0100par0351	Mr. Deniz Depboy will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0103par0354	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my National Movement Party Group on our motion on Article 30 of the Companies Act No. 388. I salute you. Again, I salute the nation of St. Turk. Before I begin my speech, Mr. Bulent Tezcan tells him to get well, and I wish him a speedy recovery. Dear lawmakers, there is a lot of debate about the concept of expert opinion and its independence and neutrality, and it seems impossible to talk about an opinion on this issue, a unity of behavior. However, there are many problems in our country concerning special expertise. Who can be the expert, who can't be the expert? These questions are things we need to think about. The qualities that need to be sought as an expert are expertise and competence. Who's the expert? Is anyone who feels like an expert or an expert with every certificate able to be an expert or expert? Unfortunately, in real life, there are no responses that we hope will be easily answered by many of us. We are partially disappointed by what is already happening. You're also aware that the task of being an expert is corrupting over time. A new bill has been presented today on the grounds that it will solve the current problems. However, it is doubtful whether all problems will be resolved with the new law. With this law, the state must also oppose the principle of neutrality by acting as if it would attract all autonomous institutions to its side. We are also faced with a limited-term education that makes certificate holders and a bill that will be accepted as a profession. It is not the solution, nor is it appropriate to create new trade groups with certificate training or include people who have had different trainings in the form of patching up existing professions. Many trade groups have been victimised by giving them a certificate. The closest example I can give is the injustice done to graduates of psychological counseling and guidance. With short-term courses opened by the Ministry of National Education, there has been a violation of the principle of rights and scientificity by making out-of-field appointments, purchases, assignments, but the Ministry of National Education is still in violation of the field through opening and certifying. It also gives us the claim that there are not enough PDR graduates. During the recent appointments made by the Ministry of National Education, around 7,000 PDR graduates applied, but 1,400 graduates were appointed as school psychologists, guidance counselors. Currently, there are around 10,000 PDR graduates waiting to be appointed with new graduates. First of all, you have to put these graduates in the schools they need. Victims born of field violations should be terminated, with respect to all professional areas and the principle of scientificism, and that principle applies to the practice of expert expertise. Dear lawmakers, in regard to the necessity of the law that we are currently discussing, yesterday, Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ focused on the importance and necessity of control in institutional tasks, particularly as an expert witness. Control is one of the most genuine, important tasks the government has to perform. We are also concerned about your future conduct as to the mistakes and neglects that have been made in the matter of auditing so far. The schools of the organisation, which has been known to operate in our country on December 17-25, were made by the Ministry of National Education in the administration of the ruling party for many years, where, unfortunately, children have been subjected to religious, political and ideological abuse after this date, after which Hashhashi was claimed to be a group of parties. I'd like to remind you that teachers of these schools, which have been supervised and accepted by the Ministry of National Education for 15 years, have been expelled, that children who study at those institutions have been suspected, and that the parents who have again been educated have been considered suspicious, suspicious. But unfortunately, I'd like to remind you again that politicians who opened the way for this organization and played a role in the July 15 coup have never been touched. It is doubtful how the inspections with this Cognitive Bill will be conducted, whether national interests, national interests, or the interests of power will be looked after. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0104par0363	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are three motions in Article 31: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first sentence of Article 31 of the Competitiveness Act 388 be changed in the following way. "The second joke of Article 16 of Law 2659 has been changed as follows." Mustafa Kalaycı Mustafa Mit Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu İsmail Faruk Aksu Erkan Haberal Kamil Aydın Kadir Koçdemir Desire Erdem Ayhan Bilgen Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The first joke of Article 31 (c) of the 388 rows of the current Bill of Law (c) shall be added to the end (b) of the same joke (b) by delaying the execution of prison sentences, continuous illness, disability and my husband's reasons for reducing or removing certain people's sentences. İdris Bauken Mizgin Irgat Mahmut Toğrul Merkel Danış Beştaş Celal Doğan Ayhan Bilgen Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the terms (g) with Article 388 to the number of the Bill of the Act of Awareness, Article 31, Article 2659, Article 2659, Article 2 (g) and (h) in the following way. Cemal Okan Yüksek Tahsin Tarhan Kazım lion Mehmet Gökdağ Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Dursun Çiçek A.D.I.E. Board of Medicine 7: jobs related to medical procedures that didn't end in death, (H) A.D.I. Board of E.R.: jobs related to medical application errors that resulted in death, Does the commission agree with the final motion read?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0105par0391	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0104par0392	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0106par0393	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0104par0394	Denizli MP Kazim Arlen will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0107par0397	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute all of you with love. We're discussing today the issue of the 388 rows of expert witness law. I made a promise on the motion we made in Article 31. The 31st article we are discussing contains changes in some of the provisions of the Law on Forensic Medicine 2659. In particular, the 16th Amendment to the 2nd article of the article provides new tasks in the framework of this law. In fact, there is a need for this law to be evaluated and redeveloped in a whole form with Law 2659, and to be renovated accordingly, especially when Forensic Medicine is completely free of political pressures, completely on its own issues, deciding on its own matters and making decisions without any initiatives, no interference, and that this institution needs to be re-established. So it's not appropriate, in fact, to evaluate the issues that are included in the Forensic Medicine Agency's content, within the law of the expert opinion. With this clause, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. The fellowship boards are given new tasks. As part of these tasks, information and expert expert reports will be received from the Forensic Medical Association. Dear lawmakers must be free of the shadow of the executive body and free from political pressures, especially for independent expert opinion to emerge. The administration, especially if it puts a barrier before the functioning of the judiciary and intervenes in it, will never be able to get out of it, and there will be a lot of injustice in trying to get justice done. Moreover, the work needs to be done quickly so that justice can be seen, done, and justice can be done quickly. Let's not forget that delayed justice is not justice. However, it is not possible, independently, to say that every decision that has not been made objectively, in particular, is fair, and in public, to find the answer. I'd like to draw your attention to one thing in particular, in order to regulate the law of expertise. The expert expert on his own subject and has to act independently, independently, in his duties to help the judge, to help the judge in a broad and self-explained way, to be the basis for his decisions. In particular, we see that legal experts are appointed from time to time. As long as there are no special circumstances, I want to say that it's not right to do so unless critical issues are brought to justice, and even if it is done, I think it needs to be brought to light with a rational decision. The Investigator Consulting Board must be designed as an upper council and must hold at least one meeting a month. I'm saying that the powers vested in the Office of the Investigator should be allowed to make an impartial, independent, and free decision of the Counsellor's Council, given the powers vested in it. I salute you all again with love. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0108par0405	Thank you, Mr. lion. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The first joke of Article 31 (c) of the 388 rows of the current Bill of Law (c), which states that "the execution of prison sentences will be postponed, permanent illness, disability and my husband's reasons for reducing or removing certain people's sentences" (c) will be removed from the context of the same joke (b) and propose that the same joke be added to the end (b). Mahmoud Toğrul (Gaziantep) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0109par0412	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0108par0413	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0110par0414	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0108par0415	Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0111par0418	Mr. President, there's been a lot of criticism and a lot of talk on this bench about the M.E.'s office. At the time, these criticisms were easily avoided, but after July 15th, we all saw that one of the institutions where the most dismissals took place was the Forensic Medical Association. So when you're defending something, when you're standing up for something, when you're standing up for something, when you're fighting for something, when you're in trouble, when you're in trouble, do we have a share in it, is there a dimension that comes from us? In fact, it's also a guarantee that you don't fall into new troubles or new plagues. And (remember) when the first stone was suggested that he who did not commit it should throw it away. Dear lawmakers, we need to discuss and discuss the allegations of Turkey's recent justice-related and direct regulations concerning the Forensic Medicine Institution as an arrangement is being made due to an expert's law on the Forensic Medicine Institution. I shared on this bench last week; Human Rights Watch issued a concrete report on torture claims in detention centers, not in detention centers, counting 13 names, counting very concrete cases. Now, about this report, of course, human rights organisations make claims, and administrative authorities and political officials present concrete, clear claims that they are not. Innocence is not fundamental here, it is the state's responsibility to prove that there is no torture, that's the rule in the state of law. Now, there are very concrete allegations, and the Department of Justice, the Ministry of Interior, has responded to them. I won't go into the context of these answers, but even if you look at the way this answer is being done, you can see very clearly how we've lost the scales of justice. The person who did better, more polite news than the two publications close to the government reported with a slap from the Ministry to the Human Rights Watch, but what's worse is the title of a newspaper that carries the Answer to Exposures. Now, slander is a crime and a serious claim. It is his duty to write a report and describe it as a statement by a human rights organization, because it is his duty to commit slander. You can't describe his claim as "iftira" but if you're accusing him of slander, you're actually slandering him. Dear lawmakers, if there are friends who are curious about the answer, interested, look at the website, look at the report and answer the report. How abstract, how persuasive, and concrete are the arguments that each person evaluates in his own conscience, where he will answer, but I want to remind you that you have needed these organizations in the past, and so have we, and so do all of us. We've been knocking on the doors of these organizations, conducting studies, making visits, in order to get a sentence about the headscarf in their reports. We've been trying to get a sentence into the reports of these organizations about Koran courses, about the injustices of imam-hakip high schools, vocational high schools. We may need it in the future as much as we need it in the past. Besides, we have to take a stand for justice, even if we don't need it at all. Many friends here know how those organizations treat themselves, whether they are fair or not; if you ask your friends, they know them personally, but I just want to say that if there's a claim, instead of covering it up, what's our share in this? I suggest you question it because when you do, instead of covering up your crime, you're just going to blow up a storm and cover it up, instead of doing your share. The whole community will pay this bill, the whole country will have to pay it. Many of the cases we've had today, many of the cases have shown it very clearly. Look at the allegations of Firat Anlı. With photo montage, a cemetery photo, a photomontage of an opening in the DISC, the prosecutor has launched an investigation and is now under arrest. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And in your defense, you say that the State of Emergency didn't affect anyone's personal life.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0112par0426	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0111par0427	Yeah, I'll leave it at that. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0112par0430	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first sentence of Article 31 of the Competitiveness Act 388 be changed in the following way. "The second joke of Article 16 of Law 2659 has been changed as follows." Altruism (Istanbul) and its companions Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0113par0437	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0112par0438	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0114par0439	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0112par0440	İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0115par0443	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the 31st Article of the Companies Act. I salute the Veterans' House. Dear lawmakers are the real or legal person who is applied for to vote or give his opinion verbally or in writing in cases that require special or technical information. As you can see from your definition, it is not a limited profession to express opinion on matters that require specific and technical information, but also vital to the functioning of the judiciary. The detection of the data required for the judge to make a fair decision is considered to be a phase of detection, a basis for judicial action, but in our country, the expert opinion system is unfortunately not functioning in a healthy way. In particular, it is necessary for experts to be in a structure that will contribute to the establishment of justice, especially to the selection and control of the operations. Therefore, there is no question of the need for a quick, reliable, and fair establishment of justice in the matter of expertise, but this bill is a situation where it becomes more troubling than the current situation, rather than the required application of expertise. Most importantly, these problems will cause obstructions in the judicial system. The adoption of private legal persons as expert experts will provide the basis for the creation of private establishments. And that would make it possible for an important job like expertise to take on a commercial scale. As in many other areas, it will bring sectorization into the judiciary. This could be the basis for non-profit development. In this regard, companies will be established, from time to time bribes and corruption and these allegations will emerge, and there will be grounds for that, so there will also be trust issues. With this bill, it is intended that the expert opinion be placed in a system, but this bill, seen as the basis for the problems the system has created, can conceive of different interpretations and problems. However, expertise should be placed within an undisputed and independent structure. Obstructing independence will cause the decisions to be questioned and to be deeply wounded in the security of the judiciary. One of the main flaws of the bill is that the Court of Forensic Medicine has been issued a decree that the public and private sector can be conducted in various matters concerning the field of duty. That means that some of the jobs will be used in private sector subcontractors, and some of the jobs can be auctioned to companies. In light of these concerns, the private sector must be removed. Otherwise, Forensic Medicine can also lead to corporateization, subcontractorisation, and commercialisation. In this way, independence, neutrality, accurate and rapid assessment and production of results will enter a troubled and troubled process. Dear lawmakers, many articles also include amendments and disinherited provisions. These laws are too vital and important to discuss in a hurry in the form of a bag of laws. It is obvious that there are problems with expertise, and these problems must be arranged and resolved without bringing with them bigger problems. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we, June 7th and November 1, 2015 MP, have noted both the shortcomings in our election declarations, and the lack of solutions in this area, as well as the punishment in the administrative and military judiciary, the selection of experts in the form of legal and administrative jurisdiction. As a result, our goal should be to find permanent solutions to the problems by making accurate assessments of issues that will negatively affect the judicial system and may cause problems in the application. In addition, at the end of my speech, I would like to announce the voice of our daughters regarding the hiring of 10,000 special operations police officers, but 10,000 men will be taken into special operations. In this regard, there is an announcement from our daughters and our children, and yes, please, let us act in accordance with the principle of equality, and let us be justified. Love of the land, love of the flag, is not the work of gender, it is the work of the heart, and we have it. We expect your support in this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0116par0455	Thank you, Your Grace. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, there are four motions in Article 32: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply the following amendment of the 32th article in the framework of the currently discussed Bill of the Act of the Act of Awareness. Necip Shield Mustafa Elitaş Fikri Demirel Haydar Ali Yıldız Ramazan Can Hussein Fiz The first verse of Article 21 of Law 32-2659 was taken out of the text. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose that the declaration of the 388 rows of the Law be changed in accordance with the terms of Article 32 of the Charter. İdris Bauken Mizgin Irgat Mahmut Toğrul Celal Doğan Meral Danış Beştaş Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first sentence of Article 32 of the Competitiveness Act 388 be changed in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Mit Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Erkan Haberal Kamil Aydın Kadir Koçdemir İsmail Faruk Aksu The first joke of Article 21 of Law No. 2659 was changed after the declaration of Article 21 to "sounds, images, electronic signatures, (also added), and to "crimes in the field of computation" and to "crimes in the field of computation." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 32 of the Companies Act 388 rows be changed in the following way. Cemal Okan Yüksek Tahsin Tarhan Kazım lion Bornt Yener Bektasoğlu Mehmet Gökdağ Okan Gaytancıoğlu The first article of Article 21 of Law 32-2659 was changed to the first, after the declaration of the Law, with the addition of volumes, images, electronic signatures, and verses of the same joke, and with the charges and crimes in the field of computation. Does the commission agree with the final motion read?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0117par0493	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0116par0494	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0118par0495	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0116par0496	Edirne MP Okan Gaytancıoğlu will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Gaytancioğlu.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0119par0499	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on Article 32 of the underlying law. In fact, an expert is a system of individuals or teams whose name is to be trusted with a subject of expertise, study, and report are not to be discussed. I used to be a professor at a university. I was an agricultural economist at a state university, and my specialty was agricultural policy. I had a lot of publications, books, research in the field of agricultural policy, and I've been an expert witness many times. I based on the facts that science has always predicted about what I write and study. For example, I wrote a report that if a agricultural land is first-class, it can't be used without purpose. However, the AKP, which has ruled Turkey's agriculture for thirteen years, has always coveted first-class farmland. He tried to build industrial facilities there, he tried to build TOKI fields, he tried to build buildings. In short, there is a public benefit decision. He allowed concrete to be made. I've always wondered why power likes concrete, lets it build everywhere, and doesn't make dorms for students. Or did the current government want students to go to their homes? Anyway, let's not get into it too much, let's talk about what we're experts at. The AKP controls Turkey's agriculture so badly that, as an expert witness, I warn them every time, they do what they do. For example, I understood why wheat prices didn't rise in Turkey, and I understood very well why the farmer was exploited. So I looked it up as an expert witness, and I looked it up, and I looked it up on the Internet, and I went on the page of the Un Industrial Society. I looked, there's a nice picture. The Un Industrialists Federation went to the Deputy Minister of Economy, practically begged him, and they said: "There is a bilateral agreement between Turkey and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Under the name of humanitarian aid from Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH), there is a trade under the name "helping Muslim countries" and a zero customs tax. For example, there's a trade in flour. Turkey is an exporter of flour, it's a 1st country in the world, we don't import flour. We put 130 per cent customs tax on the import, but the stock market comes to us from Herzegovina with zero customs, under the name of human aid. It's beautiful, but it's grown so much that the Un Industries Federation has gone to the Minister of Economics, and I'm reading it, and I'm reading it, the fact that trade relations between the two friendly countries have been abused by the free trade agreement and the introduction of our world-leading manufacturers into the market has significantly reduced our industry's power. In 2015 -- hold on -- 2,000 tons of flour entered Turkey, but for some reason, it exploded in 2016, up 17 stories, 27 thousand tons of flour entered. What did I, of course, do as an expert witness? I immediately looked at the statistics, calculated that Bosnia and Herzegovina had 75,000 tonnes of wheat production and that 70 per cent of it was flour, and I learned that the amount of flour that could enter was zero. I said, "This is definitely going to be rigged." Anyway, the Federation officials who went to the Deputy Minister begged him to stop it. I did some more digging, another source. Herzegovina has not seen such exports. Her oil imports have also exploded. The customs tax on oil is 26 per cent, but with zero customs, Turkey is getting fat. So, again, someone's making money from them, but what's important is that it's called humanitarian aid, help for the neighbors, help for Muslim countries, and someone makes money for them. Next time I've given you a question proposal, who those people are, hopefully, I'll explain it here. We'll see who's playing a game above the farmer's wheat price. I say this is the duty of your expert expert, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0120par0506	Thank you, Mr Gaytancioğlu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first sentence of Article 32 of the Competitiveness Act 388 be changed in the following way. The first joke of Article 21 of Law No. 2659 has been changed from the first article of the Law to the first article of the Law, including audio, video, electronic signatures, and other crimes in the field of computation, which have been added and included in the separate joke. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor (Heromarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0121par0514	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0120par0515	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0122par0516	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0120par0517	Heromarash MP Fahrettin Oğuz Tor will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0123par0520	Mr. President, I have made a commitment on behalf of the MHP on the motion on Article 32 of Law 32 of 388 rows. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. Mr. Secretary, you should know that from 2010, I would like to start talking about the Supremeity of the Law Index, which was created by the measurement of law and justice practices in the country. Turkey has recently been ranked in the 2016 Top of the Law Report, published on 20/10/2016, in the 99th place in 113 countries. In 2014, the situation between 99 countries in the ranking 59, while the country ranked 80 degrees among 102 countries in 2015 in the last two years has taken up 40 steps in the principle of justice and rule of law, which, unfortunately, does not look very well from the outside. In the 2012 report, the summary information on Turkey's decision is as follows: 1- Turkey is the 108th of the government's power and austerity among the 113 countries in which it can be supervised by legislation, judiciary, independent control authorities, media and civil society organisations and the ability to account for the administration. In this area, only Cambodia, Egypt, Uzbekistan, Zimbabwe, and Venezuela were left behind. It is not for us to abandon the Egyptian government, the military junta, the Cambodian monarchy ruled by the king, even though it declared independence in 1980 as a colony of the United Kingdom. It should give us some serious thought. In other words, in our country, the government is seen in a secular, irresponsible, non-responsive, unmanageable position of power. 2- Another area where our country's report card is very bad is about the existence and implementation of fundamental rights and freedoms. In areas such as fair trial and trial, purity of innocence, protection of the rights of the accused, freedom of thought and expression, the privacy of private life, our country, unfortunately, has only been ranked as 105th among 113 countries. 3- Despite being categorized in regional classification along with Eastern Europe and Central Asia -- not between Europe, but between Eastern Europe and Central Asia countries -- such as Romania, Bulgaria, until yesterday -- are among the 13 countries in this regional category who are unaware of human rights. In the category of economically upper middle-income countries, another form of classification, it has also found a place in the 36th ranking of 37 countries, or last places. Unfortunately, we're also last in the OECD countries where we've been founding members since 1960. And there's not a single country that our country has left behind, unfortunately, in the field of justice and the rule of law, among the G20 countries that we boast about being members of at every turn. I mean, Russia, Saudi Arabia, even China seem to be in better shape than we are. Dear lawmakers, the principle of rule of law is not limited to the common practice of justice without distinction, the independence and neutrality of the judiciary, the fair trial of individuals, suspects, defendants. Economic development in a country where the rule of rule of law is not adopted, not adopted and perceived as a worthless phenomenon cannot be sustained, local and foreign entrepreneurs cannot invest, human rights and basic rights and freedoms cannot be developed, corruption and poverty cannot be fought. According to this index, our country's 40-digit decline in 2016 should be focused on the importance of every measure in order to prevent it from going bad. As long as we don't rule with justice, we don't give it to the proper, we continue to crawl in this field -- unfortunately, I repeat. It's always justice, justice, justice, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0124par0530	Thank you, Mr. Tor. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose that the declaration of the 388 rows of the Law be changed in accordance with the terms of Article 32 of the Charter. İdris Bauken (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0125par0537	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0124par0538	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0126par0539	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0124par0540	Adana MP Coral Danış Beştaş will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0127par0543	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Studies are continuing on the Companies Act, but this bill is really important, no doubt, very important. We all have an idea about the impact of judicial neutrality, independence and the decision-making of the expert institution, especially those who are on the side of lawyers and cases, but we are talking about Turkey's agenda in parliament right now, because we really don't think it's true, because we've had dozens of bleeding, hundreds of injuries, while citizens have complained about many issues, while we've been here in Turkey as if there are no extraordinary regimes in Turkey right now, as if the country isn't being ruled by law, as if we've done a routine parliamentary activity, because we don't really think it's true, because we've been able to discuss our views with the Bill of the State yesterday, as if we don't want to negotiate with the four parties, as if they don't have an agreement with the law. Here, of course, the ruling party's number of fingers results in legislation only by the law of one party, law enforcement, and unfortunately, the opposition's word and proposals do not find a response. I'd like to talk a little bit about another issue, especially the fact that today's agenda is very important to us, and that many people in Turkey are being cancelled by thousands of people. In particular, after the July 15 coup attempt, we think it's necessary to remind you over and over again that everyone who was under the roof of the 15th of July coup attempt had the same reaction. The coup attempt to seize the coupe, seize the people's will by force, the coup attempt to surrender the people's will is unacceptable, of course, but a new coup attempt under the name of the coupe is standing in the middle as a matter which we, who are the will of the people, must stand against as much as possible. On the one hand, the State of Emergency will be declared because of the coup attempt on July 15th, and will be appointed trustees to local governments representing the will of the people, with decrees issued or authorized by this coup attempt on the other hand. The decrees of the law - the other side of the coin - will be faced again with the force of the people's will, and the verbs of the seizure. Now, we can't argue enough about the fact that, at this moment -- I think the laws of the law will be discussed next week -- that the decrees should be limited to the Constitution, to its purpose, to its duration. Confiscating passports is only one of them. Today, our Şırnak MP, Ferhat Encu, was prevented from leaving the country by handing over his passport at Ataturk Airport. In an official capacity, the Parliament must really consider the situation in which a member of parliament has been dropped abroad on a diplomatic mission. Again, Ferhat Encu is an MP, but right now thousands of academics, businessmen, women's rights advocates, journalists with their wives, with their children, because their passports have been seized, cannot use travel rights, can't travel, can't go on a tourist trip, can't go on business, or can't continue their business activities. The work on this subject is definitely needed to be reviewed over and over again. The crisis tables may be set up right now, but we have to think very strongly about taking advantage of such rights, obstructing people's right to travel, and in this way, the seizure of these passports at the airport. Dear friends, another anecdote: The decision made today regarding Mr. Ferhat Encu (now) was made two hours before the seizure at the airport this morning. I mean, no one would believe a coincidence like that. I'm sure if we take out our political identities, all of us, you won't believe it either. Two hours ago, the passport will be revoked, and it will be confiscated in two hours. Now, if this place really represents the will of the people, we all need to respond together to these unlawfulities. Or we'll all be lost together on this sinking ship. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0128par0551	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply the following amendment of the 32th article in the framework of the currently discussed Bill of the Act of the Act of Awareness. The first verse of Article 21 of Law 32-2659 was taken out of the text. Necip Shield (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0129par0559	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0128par0560	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0130par0561	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0131par0562	Motive...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0128par0563	I'm reading the reason: The provision intended to be made in Article 21 of the Law on Forensic Medicine has been proposed in order to replace Article 32 of the Law on 15/8/2016 and under Article 674. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, there are three motions in Article 33: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first sentence of the first sentence of the 388th Amendment shall be changed in the following way. Article 23 of the Law No. 2659 has been changed, as follows. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Mit İsmail Faruk Aksu Erkan Haberal Fahrettin Oguz Tor Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the entity of the president's party, in the case of equality of the votes, shall be replaced by the entity's declaration of the entity in which the president is held. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Merkel Danış Beştaş Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second joke of Article 23 (C) shall be changed in the following manner, as follows, by Article 33 (2659) of the Bill of Appliances No. 388. ▪ Official Medical Oversights and residency boards can call for examinations when necessary and listen to them according to procedure, conduct the proper examination, or get them done. Cemal Okan Yüksel Mehmet Gökdağ Haluk Pekşen Tahsin Tarhan Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Kazim Arslan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0132par0592	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0128par0593	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0133par0594	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0128par0595	Tripoli MP Haluk Pekşen will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Pekshen.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0134par0598	Mr. President, the honorable lawmakers are indeed a bleeding wound in Turkey. There was a great need for this establishment to be reviewed, to be reconstructed, as were its precedents in the world. Of course, it's very important that this needs to be taken care of, but I think it's also a huge mistake to make this need a wound that bleeds more than a wound that bleeds, and then turn it into a trauma that maybe kills it. I want you to know that the building that will be created regarding this expert suit will bring Turkey back into a very serious discussion all over the world. Look, in the coming period, all of the judges appointed, elected and employed after the adoption of this law will have an application for the European Court of Human Rights. Why? Because experts and judges essentially take authority from the same legal status and lean on the same legal status. Mr. Secretary, all of the bureaucrats you have with you are very much in control and capable of these matters without being any different from me, and I believe him. But with this arrangement, you've established a structure that will affect the agency's independence, neutrality, and the establishment's ability to rule in a way that helps the judiciary. With this structure, there will be a violation of the principle of the equality of weapons, that every judge, every expert witness, will go to the European Court of Human Rights and not be judged fairly. That's 100%. Why? See, one example: the foundation of the palace of justice is laid in Adana, the House of Adana Engineers is suing for this court of justice, and the Court of Justice accepts the case, and the Court of Justice approves the verdict, but comes to correct it. What's the motive? The reason is that the people who filed the case are members of the Adana Engineers' Room, and the experts are members of the Adana Engineers' Room. The European Court of Human Rights considers it sufficient to be members and decides that the expert has no neutrality. Now, Mr. Secretary, consider the third joke, especially of Article 64 of the Penal Code, which has been conducted directly. It's a matter set up in the Penal Code where the person in the hierarchical chain can't judge where the trial is being held. So, in his arrangement, wouldn't such an expert opinion contradict it? Of course it does. Tomorrow, all those who have been tried, convicted on probation, lost their rights, will go to the Constitutional Court, the European Court of Human Rights to seek rights. Naturally, I can tell you, I assure you, in the coming days, in the months, in the years, that's what Turkey's Human Rights Court is going to complain about the most. All those who have turned up against his case will appeal to the European Court of Human Rights on this justified basis. At least you can't explain it with the Venice Principles. The Venice Principles clearly considered principles such as neutrality, independence, equality. You're looking at the structure of this board, you're looking at its formation, you're looking at its hierarchy, you're looking at the way it works, you're looking at the way it works, you're looking at the way it works, you're getting all the power, not the knowledge of love, not the knowledge of itself; you're looking at a political control here, like a shadow of the Ministry of Justice. That's not gonna happen. Mr. Secretary, the Justice Department... Think of an expert who claims on one hand and has been added to the indictment on the other. The D.A.'s doing an investigation, and he's gonna appoint an expert on the investigation. Who's it from? He's gonna transfer it from here. The prosecutor is the state's attorney, the Justice Department's attorney, and the expert witness is the same state's attorney as that prosecutor. What kind of neutral, independent justice can you get out of here? Now that we know that the Attorney General has control of that expert, could there be a principle of independence, neutrality? Can we tell the Court of Human Rights that this will not go to the Constitutional Court? This must be planned as an upper body, designed as an independent and neutral panel, and must be formulated to solve this bleeding wound in front of Turkey. That's not true, Mr. Secretary. Today you're in power, tomorrow someone else is in power. No matter who is in power, justice is necessary for all of us, justice is boomerang for all of us, so please stop using justice as a weapon. It's our duty, it's the most important thing we have to do. Thank you very much, and I salute you.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0135par0606	Thank you, Mr. Pekshen. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the entity of the president's party, in the case of equality of the votes, shall be replaced by the entity's declaration of the entity in which the president is held. Mizgin Irgat (Bitlis) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0136par0613	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0135par0614	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0137par0615	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0135par0616	Adıyaman MP on the motion...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0138par0617	I'll do the talking.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0135par0618	It says Behcet Yıldırım.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0138par0619	I'll do the talking.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0135par0620	Please, we'd appreciate it if you'd let us know. Mr. Mizgin Irgat of Bitlis will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0139par0624	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. Yes, on behalf of my party regarding the Cognitive Bill of Law, what I will say in this article will be of complete interest to you and to you as well as to the violations of the Law. In fact, we need to review the positivist approach here, the positivism in the law, and maybe discuss it again. Haldun Taner, one of the most important writers, I will close my eyes. I will do my duty. Orhan Kemal, also, has a rule. The rule is the rule. You must follow the rule, and not look at the content at all. So, when we look at the decisions that the Coroner's office has made over the years, we'll all see that one of them is controversial. After the July 15 coup attempt, we found that many of his members had been taken into custody and were relieved of duty, which means that the decisions he made at the time were very high that there were no real, legal, non-democratic decisions. Hakeza, some of the judges and prosecutors who held the trial at that time are currently in prisons or expelled from the office. So the legality of your decisions regarding all those who were arrested in the course of your operations at that time has now become controversial once again today. If we accept all decisions made or all laws made under the name of the law as a whole, without question, we will be free from universal laws, human rights and freedoms, fundamental rights and laws. The decisions made under the roof of this Parliament, where power has changed periodically, when the rulers have changed period after period, and perhaps those platforms have changed many hands, and, most importantly, the legislature where legislature is being conducted, should be fully reviewed, not to be forgotten that there are controversial decisions, laws. As we have noted in our motion regarding the expert opinion bill, we have stated that the Forensic Medical Institution is a very important institution to discuss, not in the form of a bag of law, but alone, and in that way, we have submitted our motion to the subcommittee. I want to come from here: I mean, when we look at the IHD decisions, or in this sense, when we look at the reports on human rights and law, and we look at the reports presented to the public, and in the name of the latest public, especially in many parts of Turkey and in the southeast, in the region, it's clear that every decision made is controversial. In Bitlis, where I was his deputy, the Ovakış were detained for 21 days, while the Co-Mayors and members of the council were arrested and sent to prisons. However, I can point out that it is the best working municipality in the region in terms of municipal matters. We've been asking the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Health for weeks and they haven't made an appointment with us. The building under the name Bitlis Tatvan State Hospital is miles away from Tatvan. Given the region's winter conditions, we're saying that the Tatvan State Hospital, where people are supposedly serving as a service to our people, must be moved to the city centre as soon as possible, with a bill allowing them to be victims of traffic accidents. After the decision of military hospitals to be opened to people, civil citizens, all citizens, including the GATA, have been transferred to the Special Operations Office at Tatvan Military Hospital. Hakeza, there is a diversion, a postponement, and a study to resolve the issues, even though we repeatedly said that the Ahlat-Bitlis-Trillis-Trial intersection, which is connected to Tatvan, should be rebuilt. I'm calling again from here to the Ministry of Transport and Health: Why don't you give us an appointment? Are you afraid of what we're going to talk about, or are there things you can't answer? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thus, we do not accept the Bill of Precognitive Law in this way. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0140par0639	Thank you, Mr. Irgat. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first sentence of the first sentence of the 388th Amendment shall be changed in the following way. Article 23 of the Law No. 2659 has been changed, as follows. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor (Heromarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0141par0647	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0140par0648	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0142par0649	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0140par0650	Mr. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0143par0653	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the SHP regarding the 33rd Amendment of the law. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, of course, on this occasion, I'd like to discuss something concrete here, something that I'm very concerned about in the CSI Commission, which is relevant to the subject. Now, a public bank is giving a company around $20 million in project loans at today's value. And in terms of guaranteeing the loan, of course, he's building real estate mortgages. Normally, SEC licensed firms need to be prepared for an expert report, but they have their own employees prepare it, and the bank's value assessment for this property is 12 million liras. The bank is also following up on the fact that the third party has launched a follow-up on the firm and the firm has requested a bankruptcy delay. As a matter of fact, immediately after the beginning of this pursuit, the expert reports come in. But what I have to say in the first place is that the bank has a $12 million expert opinion that its employees have made. I'd like to present to you here a series of expert reports given by various experts during the pursuit of the third party and the public bank. The amount of the Ankara court, which discussed the firm's request to postpone bankruptcy, is $214,000 in mortgages, which is $12 million, which the court has identified to the experts, the value of the property is $214,000, 56 times more valued by the bank to its employees. So when the bank -- 214 grand goes out -- instead of 12 million -- it's re-diagnosed by an expert witness; it gets $12.8 million back to its own employees. Then, as a result of the chase of the third party, the Sanliurfa Executive Directorate gets an expert assessment, which comes to $6 million, the value of the $12 million mortgage. A review of the bank's objection is being made, and this time the value of $6 million drops to $5,600,000. Dear lawmakers, meanwhile, in the wake of the pursuit of another creditors in Gaziantep, another expert estimates the same land for $5,200,000. In the final chase, the bank objects, appeals denied, the decision is final. I would like to say that while the court has determined that the land is worth 4 to 14,000 liras, 5 million liras, 6 million liras, 5 million, 600 thousand liras, the bank is operating on the basis of 12 million euros, which it has identified to its employees, regardless of the findings made by the courts. Dear lawmakers, in brief, the event is based on the fact that the bank's findings made by its own employees are based on the absence of the detection of four court experts. So the administration didn't care about the court order. Why wouldn't he? It didn't work out for you. Why wouldn't he? He didn't wear it so he wouldn't be responsible for administrative, criminal and financial matters. At first, he made some effort to ensure the value of the mortgage he had his own employees identify, but he always came back from court. Dear lawmakers, Mr. Minister is here, and no matter what law we take out, no matter how complete or incomplete the law is, if you can't get it to apply it, it won't mean anything many times. Our idea is that we will not succeed in this field unless we bring up free, free, conscience, free, honest, honest, justice -- brave rulers, judges -- unless we punish the perpetrator, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit02spe0144par0660	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0144par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 16th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our talks at 388 rows of the Bill of Law. The commission is in place, the government is in place. We stayed on Article 34. There are two motions in Article 34: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 34 of the Competitiveness Act, 388 rows, be changed in the following way. Article 24 (I) and (II) jokes of Law No. 34 (2659) changed the terms of the General Medical Board (also referred to in the form of the Supreme Medical Council (also referred to as the (II) joke (b) and (c) were removed from effect. Cemal Okan Yüksel Mehmet Gökdağ Tahsin Tarhan Kazim Arslan Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Akın Usüzdağ Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 34 of Law Bill 388 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Celal Doğan Mahmut Toğrul Behcet Yıldırım Meral Danış Beştaş Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0145par0020	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0144par0021	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0146par0022	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0144par0023	Adıyaman MP Behçet Yıldırım will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0147par0026	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on the underprivileged Adjudication Act. I salute the General Assembly. But before I begin my words, I'm going to talk about a bad incident that happened in Adıyaman yesterday. There's an ugly attack on the Suryani cemetery. I condemn this understanding, this movement, and I expect the perpetrators to be found and brought to justice as soon as possible. We're arguing over the bill of expert opinion. Yes, a lot of institutions were injured in that time of power, and that's where the judiciary got more hurt, more trained, more soldiers, the police took over, the universities lost their autonomy. We have an understanding that goes entirely to the direction of power. We're dealing with practices that won't allow us to investigate the fascist practices of September 12th. The September 12th crop we don't like is worse than the practice of the YOK. The presidents will no longer be elected by university professors, they will appoint a palace. That's what I'm saying as a physician living on September 12th. My first assignment was Van Prison. I was a prison doctor. Really, Mr. Secretary, the situation on that day is better than it is today. When I was in prison, the attorney general used to tell me never give me a price for torture, resist torture, if you're preventing it, if you're preventing it, give it to me. Me and the D.A. didn't have the slightest torture in prison, where I was forced to serve for two years. But today, we're getting complaints about prisons from all over Turkey. There are naked searches that don't suit human dignity, negotiations are recorded, there are restrictions, there are exiles, there are actions I can't talk about in juvenile detention, there are pressures on political prisoners. Even the patient's reports aren't taken into account, the people who should be evacuated are not being evacuated. No one works comfortably, no doctor, no prosecutor. Prisoners brought to the hospital are being tried in handcuffs, accompanied by security guards. My colleagues are unable to file a report of their own free will or to write a proper report, whose conscience is blackened, so that they are not the target of power, because of fear of job safety. The expert's law is most important to forensics. But was the opinion of the Forensic Medicine Association (ATUD) applied for as this bill was drafted? I don't think so. Has the opinion of the Turkish Medical Association been received? No. I've even talked to three forensic experts to have a five-minute conversation here. They heard the Minister yesterday. They said they agree with most of the issues that the Minister has expressed, but in practice, they say that's not how it works. I say that I agree with the problems and solutions that the fellow professors have delivered to me. I'll try to tell you as much as I can about the three or five of them that I've chosen. We live in an 80 million-dollar country. It's a one-official coroner's office. There are also delays in the trial due to the delays in the files leading to the institution due to broad geography and subject diversity and increased labour force. But we know that it is not justice that comes late. What should be the solution? My solution: Now there is at least one university in every city of our country, many of which have medical schools and forensic science, and they say they should participate. Forensics has little or nothing to do with primary science. Although described as an official expert in the university's law, he recommends that the application not be disabled, at least the judge's boards be guided and that the files be examined around here. Again, forensics has an expert exam at all majors in medicine, but the medical examiners don't take this TUS test. They want them to be taken with Tus. They want an autonomous structure. They also say that there are a lot of jurisprudences in the above-board structure of the expert that was supposed to be established. You don't have to have so many lawyers. They say there should be people in all majors. The Turkish Medical Association has never had an opinion on this, and no member has been described. That's what we find significant. At the expert agency, as they say, there should be a variety of vocational rooms, expertise associations, NGOs that have a theme in each field. Finally, there's an opinion from the medical examiner's office. The assessment of the competence and competencies of expert and expert institutions by independent institutions is important for the dignity of law and for the public's confidence in justice.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0148par0041	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0147par0042	The Coroner's Offices serve alone in the current process, as well as in self-restraint. Career organisations should form an independent control system consisting of judicial and university representatives. I'm saying the Forensics Association should get rid of the political male hegemony. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0148par0045	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 34 of the Competitiveness Act, 388 rows, be changed in the following way. Cemal Okan Yüksel (Eskişehir) and his friends Article 34-2659 of the Law (I) and (II) jokes of the General Medical Board of Medicine has been replaced in the form of the Adliical Medical Oversight (II) joke (b) and (c), which are included in Article 24 (I) and (II). Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0149par0053	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0148par0054	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0150par0055	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0148par0056	Muğla MP Akın Üstüdağ will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Supremedağ.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0151par0059	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute the General Assembly. What we're talking about is that it's very important in the Turkish legal system, and it's the expertise that makes up one of the main points of our legal system. Of course, we all know that both in terms of HMK and in terms of the CMK, both in terms of criminal judgment and in terms of legal judgment, both in which the courts are making decisions, primarily in many cases, and they've decided according to the expert reports. I'm a friend of yours who's been a lawyer for about 20 years. Like many of my colleagues, I have found that the practice has affected many wrong decisions and that random expert opinion reports have created difficulties in the justice of justice. We've seen judges ask experts about legal definitions and solutions -- especially the most important part. It appears that the judges have applied to the expert on matters that they can solve, even with their own legal knowledge and personal knowledge. This is an illegal abuse of authority. My dear friends, in the years that I had just started the job, a citizen brought a bond, brought a bond, said: "Mr. Attorney, I signed this myself, but I want to delay the incident a little bit, so I want to object to that. And in the end, according to the decision of the Forensic Medicine, that signature did not belong to that citizen, and even our citizen was surprised by this expert report. There are many other examples. Which means that the Forensics Association will have to improve itself more technically and scientifically. As with all state institutions, it is also evident, my dear friends, that integrity and expertise are not taken into account from time to time. We also see why some experts -- especially when they ask the courts for an expert witness to go to court -- have delayed reports in the length of cases. My dear friends, there is a need for legal status for the special legal authorities' expert activities, which means that the actual situation is being brought to legal status. Their reasoning is an indication of how the government views the issues of the judiciary and the independence of the judiciary. My dear friends, we're only discussing one of the problems of the judiciary here, but the judiciary has a lot of problems, and our citizen has a lot of problems. Dear Minister, our citizen has no money to pay an expert witness. The citizen has no money to sue. The citizen doesn't have the money to take the court to explore. You know, with the arrangement you're making, you're also getting these in advance. We're a country in an extraordinary state, and unfortunately, we see a lot of different practices, rather than removing the problems of the state of emergency. To illustrate: At this moment, 270 teachers from Mughla have received disciplinary sentences, my dear friends, with a proposal -- both for disciplinary prosecution -- with an administrative decision -- to cut, warn, condemn -- and also to change the position of duty by administrative decision; the reason is to participate in KESK's action on December 29, 2015. What's that got to do with it? I'm asking the Minister who represents the government here and the esteemed lawmakers. Is that a conscience? Is that justice? I'm telling you, ask your conscience. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0152par0069	Thank you, Mr. Supremedağ. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Congressmans, there are two motions in Article 35: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 388 in the following way. Cemal Okan Yüksek Tahsin Tarhan Kazım lion Mehmet Gökdağ Bkent Yener Bektasoğlu Gülay Basci In the second joke of Article 29 of Law No. 35-2659, the sign was changed into the Turkish Liras of a million Turkish liras. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the Article 35 of the current Computation Act, and the appropriation of matter numbers according to this. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Hüseyin Filiz Haydar Ali Star Fikri Demirel Muhammad Emin Akbasoğlu Necip Tetovo Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0153par0089	We commend you with the proper opinion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0152par0090	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0154par0091	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0152par0092	Am I making you read the reason, Mr. Botanci?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0155par0093	Reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0152par0094	I'm reading the reason: Reason: Since the regulation intended for Article 29/8/2016 of the Law on Forensic Medicine was made by Article 5/4 of the Constitution, the framework was motioned to be removed from the draft. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Congressmans, we can't process the other motion because the clause has been removed from the bill in accordance with the motion adopted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are three motions in Article 36: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "20%" in Article 36 of Law Bill 388 is changed to "25%" in the second joke of the current 388 rows. İdris Bauken Mizgin Irgat Behcet Yıldırım Merkel Danış Beştaş Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The second term in its fourth joke, which is included in Article 36 of the current Companition Act, has been removed from the "freely paid" text. It's "joined." We offer and offer to change it into form. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Fikri Demirel Ramazan Can Necip Shield Hussein Filiz Muhammad Emin Akbasoğlu Haydar Ali Yıldız Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the sentence added to the second joke of Article 388 and article 2659 of the Computation Act is changed in the following way. Cemal Okan Yüksek Tahsin Tarhan Kazım lion Mehmet Gökdağ Bkent Yener Bektasoğlu Gülay Basci "The personnel attending the death examination or autopsy procedure on the off-hours and official holidays are also paid in addition to the provisions set in the regulation, up to 20% of the ceiling additional payment rates, as defined by staff and duty titles," he said. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0156par0122	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0152par0123	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0157par0124	We agree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0152par0125	İstanbul MP Gülay Basci will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Backup.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0158par0128	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the High Council with respect and love. We're discussing the bill for the expert witness. Of course, when the AKP brings in a bill, we're all worried about what's going to come out of it this time, and now there's a variety of things that really upset us all. Now, you're trying to make the expert an officer of the Justice Department first. And I'm saying, as a technical expert for years, that's definitely not true. You're setting up a new board. The board means new budget, new staff means money. I think you have a serious problem with money. You're talking about money for everything, looking for new points of interest in money. Regarding this, I would like to read you a quote from the Lord: "No matter how rich you are, you can only eat as much as you can eat. If you dive into the sea, you'll get as much water as you can get, and there'll be more. I'd like to remind you of that. And once again, I would like to remind you that it requires expertise, honesty, neutrality, and credibility. The only way to make an objective report is to be a deep expert on it. We've been getting a lot of reports that 17 companies are ready for this. You've already prepared companies before the law is passed, so you've already set up a way to make money. One more thing, which is very important: being an expert is not a profession. Applying for the opinion of people who are experts in his profession, giving an opinion to people who disagree with each other about it, who have fallen into trial, means that what is true about it, what is real, is a technical business. I'm actually congratulating you for making this work, it's not something anyone would think of. You think people can be experts with a certificate, that with a few hours of training, you can write the best report. It's not something you can imagine. You're emptying everything, everything. There is no merit in Turkey; in any case, there is no merit in any institution. No matter what happens to me, you say. Now, I'd like to remind you that you may be harmed by the loss of independence of an expert witness agency. Our nation has given us opposition. And as a member of the opposition, I would like to give you a warning. The people you're going to keep with the money can work against you if someone gives you more money later. On July 15th, we all saw what the people you saw as guarantees did. At that time, you did not heed our warnings, but at least heed our warnings today, and refrain from the bill of the expert who should be independent, and at least try to address the difficulties of this institution. For example, make sure that the experts of the experts are appointed; take an opinion on this matter from the vocational rooms, and work together with the professional rooms. You've written here, you'll call any NGOs you want. What are you going to determine about those NGOs? What value, what criteria are you going to evaluate? Also, it's not clear what criteria these district upper boards will take, so it's not clear how they're going to do their membership elections; you're going to continue with a relationship of wife, friend, friend, friend. You're bringing in a system that compels judges and prosecutors to choose the experts elected by the Ministry, and with this system, the experts are not going to get out of what the Ministry says. There's one more important thing in this law, valuable MPs. I'm sure the members of the AKP will agree with us on this matter. It may not just be local, and foreigners can be expert on this, but no citizen of the state of the Republic of Turkey can be an expert witness abroad. I mean, that's against the principle of reciprocity in law. It is also clear that it is very serious and troubling to be appointed as a legal expert, since there is no criminal situation. I believe you'll reconsider, and I salute you all with love. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0159par0140	Thank you, Mr. Backup. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0160par0142	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0159par0143	Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0160par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to file a matter. Mr. Minister of Justice has left, but...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0161par0148	I'm here.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0160par0149	I asked him a question earlier about whether there was an investigation into journalists who reported this Cumhuriyet daily; he came back to the attorney general, and the General Assembly informed him, and he said: "There is no such investigation according to information that has been given to me.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0162par0150	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0160par0151	I hope so. We have other information coming to us. Information has begun to come about this case as a matter of immediate lack of surveillance. I, the Minister of Justice, wish to give us the truth of the information that he has given to the House in all respects, both in terms of our Minister of Justice and in terms of the state's attorney general's office. If the contrary information is really to be shared with the public...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0162par0153	Complete, please.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0160par0154	It's really irreparable, and it could have very severe consequences. I wish to share this information with you, with our Council, and request that it be put on the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0163par0157	Thank you, thank you. I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The second term in its fourth joke, which is included in Article 36 of the current Companition Act, has been removed from the "freely paid" text. It's "joined." We offer and offer to change it into form. Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0164par0166	We commend you with the proper opinion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0163par0167	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0165par0168	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0166par0169	Motive...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0163par0170	I'm reading the reason: The regulation intended to be carried out in Article 30/8/2016 of the Law Against the Court of Coroner's Law was made under Article 6/4 of the Law, so the framework was motioned to be corrected according to Article 36. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "20%" in Article 36 of Law Bill 388 is changed to "25%" in the second joke of the current 388 rows. Coral Danış Beştaş (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0167par0179	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0163par0180	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0168par0181	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0163par0182	You don't agree. Diyarbakır MP İdris Bauken will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0169par0186	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In our speech here after July 15th, we said there were four basic principles that we had to stick to. In fact, we've been saying this over and over again for years before July 15th. As long as we do not address social peace, democracy, the legal state and human rights on a principle level, we insist that we cannot solve the basic problems in this country, we see that these four fundamental principles concerning the problems that are happening throughout Turkey today are unfortunately being pushed aside by the power by the back of the hand. And that's why the basic problems are getting in our way by putting up with them. Yesterday, when I was speaking from this bench, I specifically addressed the MPs within the AKP. Look, for the past two years, I've talked about an understanding that we can solve both President Erdogan's and your decision makers' basic problems with security policies. I've talked about winning your well while we've convinced them that Turkey's main problems are being solved by security policies. I've told them that it's been spreading a lot of blood in this country over the past year because of these mistakes that have imposed on you for the past two years. You've been doing what they've been saying for two years. Two years before that, you were doing what people who didn't think so, who believed that democratization would result. If you're not listening to us, compare the last two years to the last two years before that. Look at the level we've come to in the last two years, the content of our debates here, and look at the problems that are piling up almost every day, almost every day, in a huge way, in all of the 79 million today. Now, it's time for you to make a sound and intervene against those of you who think with that mind of yours. You have deceived us for two years. For two years, you have brought us against society and against the people, and on the other hand, you have done very deep things to dig our well. Oh, that doesn't save you from political responsibility. Look, Sur, Cizre, we've been tearing ourselves up in the silopi process here. Either the wrong deeds are done, the massacres are committed, the funerals are burned, the nerve endings of society are touched, crimes are committed against humanity. We said, "You did not accept," and unfortunately, you have witnessed the minutes of the House, and you came here as you did not accept them. Now that you've sent all the owners of that painting to prison, they'll be in court the day after tomorrow. And when they come to trial, will you be exonerated? Of course not, because history is witness, reports are witnesses, you've gone to Parliamentary reports, your group's MPs, your deputies, your ministers have come out here and put political will behind those actions. There's still no point in insisting on the same mistakes now. Look, they're raiding the congressman's house today, pointing guns at the congressman's father, his brothers, laying them on the ground, doing inhumane treatment, impounding the MP's passport and preventing his political work. Ya, this government must resign because of something Siirt Governor did yesterday. They are wanted Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). It's a scandal that those who find it will report to the police with a reward of $300,000. Look, there's been a criminal complaint against this governor, of course. Now, if you don't do a procedure on the Governor of Siirt, for example, when you put a political will in the back of a governor who may have signed an application that points this way to a civilian politician's life, perhaps to an attempt on his own life, you'll be a partner in these crimes tomorrow. Your situation with the congregation is the same: yesterday you co-arrest them, today you lock them up, you arrest them alone, tomorrow when you take them to court, they'll say we did everything together, and you won't be able to answer that. Therefore, turn away from these wrongs when the road is near. I'm saying that we're going through a critical period where lawmakers who think that the country is getting worse, who think that these problems can't be solved with this head of yours, have to make a sound, and I'm giving all of you a lot of respect.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0170par0195	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions in Article 37: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the current Bill of the Appliance Act shall be changed into "1/9/2017" and "1/2017." Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Hüseyin Filiz Haydar Ali Star Fikri Demirel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 37 of the Competitiveness Act, 388 rows, be changed in the following way. Cemal Okan Yüksel Tahsin Tarhan Mehmet Gökdağ Bulent Yener Bektasoğlu Kazim Arslan "The following temporary clause has been added to the Law No. 37-2659. "Club MADDE 5- With this Law, the newly established residency boards of the A.D.A. and the upper boards begin their duties on 1/1/2017. By this time, the formation of the boards is complete. By the time the councils start to take office, the General Assembly of the Forensic Medical Association and its residency boards work as part of their current duties. When the specified boards are in office, the files are transferred to the relevant boards under the tasks set out in Articles 6 and 7." Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0171par0214	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0170par0215	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0172par0216	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0170par0217	I'm reading the reason: The amendment was intended to correct the confusion of meaning. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the current Bill of the Appliance Act shall be changed into "1/9/2017" and "1/2017." Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0173par0226	We commend you with the proper opinion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0170par0227	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0174par0228	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0175par0229	Motive...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0170par0230	I'm reading the reason: The motion aims to extend the deadline for the establishment of the upper boards and the boards of the Judiciary Board of Forensic Medicine, which have been established in place of the temporary number of interim Articles 5/8/2016, and to make the necessary appointments available to these boards, due to the addition of the interim clauses of Article 8/8/2016, and Article 8/204 to Article 2659. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There is a motion in Article 38, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision (e) added to Article No. 2802 (e) shall be replaced in the following manner. Cemal Okan Yüksek Tahsin Tarhan Kazım lion Mehmet Gökdağ Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu νe) To disobey the rules set by law during the electing and deployment of an expert witness, Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0176par0244	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0170par0245	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0177par0246	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0178par0247	Motive...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0170par0248	I'm reading the reason: The amendment was intended to correct the confusion of meaning. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There is a motion in Article 39, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 39 of the Computation Act, 388 rows, be changed in the following way. Cemal Okan Yüksek Tahsin Tarhan Kazım lion Mehmet Gökdağ Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Based on the 1st statement of the 11th amendment, dated 39-4/11/1983, and of the 11th article of the Legislative Law, the T.C. will come after the declaration. The rating standards adopted by the Prime Ministerate Capital Market Board have been added. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0179par0262	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0170par0263	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0180par0264	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0181par0265	Motive...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0170par0266	I'm reading the reason: The amendment was intended to correct the mix-up of meaning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions in Article 40, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the change of Article 2942 of Article 15 of the Law (1) in the following way, with the 40th article of the Computation Act 388 rows. Cemal Okan Yüksek Tahsin Tarhan Kazım lion Mehmet Gökdağ Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu According to this Law, experts who have been appointed by the courts are selected from lists prepared by the district councils of experts, and the relevant provisions of the Law of Law No. 12/1/2011 and the Law of Law No. 6100 are applied. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 40 of the Competitiveness Act 388 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Merkel Danış Beştaş Does the commission participate in the latest motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0182par0286	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0170par0287	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0183par0288	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0184par0289	Motive...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0170par0290	I'm reading the reason: In the 40th Article of Publicisation cases, the 15th Article of the Publicisation Act, which stipulates that the appreciation of real estate in real estate with the 40th Amendment is lifted from the scope of the Publicisation Act, which is under way by licensed values registered to the Capital Market Board and by the lists of colleagues reported by the Turkish Chamber of Engineers and Architects (TMMOB). Applications such as regulations imposed on this Article of the Publicisation Act and vocational training for thousands of members of the rooms will be eliminated. As TMMOB representatives have expressed during commission meetings, the expert opinion system in the publicisation cases is the most problematic because of the control and efficiency of the vocational chambers in their expert services, but as a result of the removal of this clause, expert services in publicisation cases will be handed over to people who are trained to serve the capital market. Bank statements to insurance companies and the value of mortgaged real estate in favour of capital will also be applied to public-run nationalisation procedures. This will be used by public power to nationalize the value of the real estate owned by the citizen. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the change of Article 2942 of Article 15 of the Law (1) in the following way, with the 40th article of the Computation Act 388 rows. Cemal Okan Yüksel (Eskişehir) and his friends According to this Law, experts who have been appointed by the courts are selected from lists prepared by the district councils of experts, and the relevant provisions of the Law of Law No. 12/1/2011 and the Law of Law No. 6100 are applied. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0185par0300	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0170par0301	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0186par0302	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0187par0303	Motive...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0170par0304	I'm having it read. The amendment was intended to correct the confusion of meaning. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There is a motion in Article 41, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the last sentence of Article 41 of the Competitiveness Act 388 will be added to the term "authority" and the term "performance." İdris Baluken Merkel Danış Beştaş Mahmut Toğrul Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0188par0317	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0170par0318	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0189par0319	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0190par0320	Motive...
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0170par0321	I'm having it read. Our objections to the 15th article also apply to this clause, and there will be damage in terms of extending the process, as it would be useless to appeal to the district council again against the decision made by the district council. Therefore, it would be more appropriate to examine the objection by the Council of Counsellors, a relatively pluralistic structure. Adjudication Law shall also be adopted on the basis of the Bill of the Judiciary Act, which is set as sixty days. The bill thus restricts the freedom of rights in administrative court and violates the principle of fair trial. Therefore, the period appointed as thirty days must be increased to sixty days. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I submit the 42nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit Article 43 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit Article 44 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There is a motion in Article 45, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the last sentence of Article 66 of Article 5271 of the Code of the Act of the Statement of the Act 388 rows shall be changed in the following way. Cemal Okan Yüksek Tahsin Tarhan Kazım lion Bornt Yener Bektasoğlu Mehmet Gökdağ "In addition, the provisions regarding the legal and criminal responsibility can be kept confidential, so that no payment can be made to the judge under the name of fee and expense, and the application of the sanctions is required by the district council." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0191par0339	We commend you with the proper opinion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0170par0340	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0192par0341	We agree.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0170par0342	I'm reading the reason: The amendment was intended to correct the confusion of meaning. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 46th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 47th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 48, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Article 5271 of the Law, which is envisioned to be replaced by article 48, in the following way. Cemal Okan Yüksek Tahsin Tarhan Kazım lion Bornt Yener Bektasoğlu Mehmet Gökdağ "MEDEDE 72- (1) pays the expert to study, transport, accommodation and other expenses in proportion to the amount of work and overtime he spends. In this regard, it is based on the recipe issued by the Justice Department and updated every year." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0193par0358	We commend you with the proper opinion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0170par0359	Government?
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0194par0360	We agree.
tbmm-2016-11-03sit03spe0170par0361	I'm reading the reason: The amendment was intended to correct the confusion of meaning. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. I submit the 49th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 50th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 51st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 52nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 53 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 54 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 55th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the temporary article 1 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 56th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 57th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, the negotiations of the bill are complete. I submit the entire bill to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... The bill has been adopted and legalized. Members of parliament, we will begin negotiations with the 405th Bill of Law and the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission report, which is ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin negotiations with Law Bill 341 in the 3rd place, and the Commission for Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will not be found after this, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (November 8th 2016) to discuss legislation and proposals in order of other tasks from the commissions. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Have a good weekend.
