tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 2nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Members of lawmakers, the people who have carried out the July 15th 16th democratic public revolution have once again shown us that they are the greatest force. I believe that we, the Vazi Parliament's representatives of this power, will not forget this fact in all the work we've done in the year of the new legislature. I believe that any work we do in this year of legislation will be in our country's best interest. I hope that during this year of life, our actions with each other during our work are based on good intentions and feelings of sincerity. In this regard, I wish the Second Year of the 26th Legislature to be good for our country, for our nation, and for all of us; I wish you a healthy and successful year of life. Members of parliament, the first President of our Parliament, the founder of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, head of our House, as a member of the House, remember all our political men, our martyrs, with mercy and gratitude, and I salute you. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] I also wish that the satire and the war bear of the year bring peace and prosperity to our country, our state and our nation. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. I give the first off-the-top speech of the new year of legislation to Batman MP Mehmet Ali Aslan. Here you go, Mr. Lion.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0002par0017	Mr. President and Mr. General Assembly, I salute you. First of all, I'm going to start by saying, "Happy New Year's Eve, Alevis, Jaferis, Shia, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Of course, since we use religious literature, religious concepts to fulfill these wishes, the conditions for this warring month of religion and for Christmas's peace, peace and grace are also stated in the Koran-dı Karim Azimşsan. In verse 217, Bakara says: "They ask you to fight in the holy month. I want to repeat it. In the 217th verse of Bakara, Baka said, "They ask you about war in the sacred months. Say: 'Fighting in it is a great sin. Persecution and oppression is a greater sin than manslaughter. Again, he commanded you not to wrong yourselves by fighting in sacred months. Again in Sadbah five, when the Muslims were fighting the pagans, Allah said in Kerim, the Qur'an again: "Do not fight the pagans in the months of Harram. Therefore, this war must be stopped at once for our peace, our blessing, our brotherhood, the establishment of our conversation. It was a great humility that the House opened on October 1st, and on October 2nd, the battle was a war, which was a satirical New Year, but instead of us voting for peace here, we would talk about peace, unfortunately, the war thesis was voted out. This is an attempt against the scriptures I have just read. On the first day of the Assembly, the people who called it the peace jihad at Yurtta, it was a contradiction to say war in war at home on the day of the Bismillah. I want to celebrate the Colombian government and the FARC guerrillas from here. As for the cause, though they were Christians, they stopped the war in the month of Zikhic, the month of the sacred month, and the month of the war. Even if the referendum did not, the country's president and the president of the guerrillas will continue to defend peace until the last moment, peace will be won. Muharrem bear's ashram days are known to us all, and the turning points of history are in the days of ascribe. Like the acceptance of Adam's repentance, like the seat of the ark of Noah. Like the meeting of Joseph, the Lord of Jacob. And unfortunately, his tribe was martyred by Jesus Hussein and his 72 companions were martyred by the cruel Yezid power. As the cruel Yazid was a source of inspiration for the next cruel power, so the martyrship of the Lord Hussein and his 72 friends became a symbol for the oppressed, and the spirit of resistance remains. Muharrem is the Arabic word for "property." In order for us to act according to this moon, we absolutely have to migrate from war to peace. Again, the reason for all the circulation, the lag-inflicted...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0003par0027	Mr. Aslan, I'll give you one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0002par0029	...but we must free ourselves from the feelings of hatred and revenge and migrate into peace, peace, uhpower and conversation, which is the cause of abandonment. Then we'll have fulfilled the divine messages, and people won't be dead. Look, the war lasted fifty-two years in Colombia, 220,000 people lost their lives. So it should take us fifty-two years? 40,000 people weren't enough. More people died? This is the opportunity, taking note of God's commands and warnings, and in this month of battle, let's establish inner and external peace on these days of Ashram, and let's not spend our strengths outside, except for ourselves, and instead of bullets -- sombolic -- let's fight with pencils and give each other the white rose that represents peace, love. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0004par0033	Thank you, Mr. Lion. The second non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal (Shanlıurfa) who wants to talk about the problems of Şanlıurfa. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0005par0038	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute and salute you all. I wish Muharrem bear to bring peace, happiness, peace, blessing to the Islamic geography. It's also mosque week. Because it's Mosque Week, I wish that both our mosques and our imams serving in mosques be resolved and finished. Dear President, dear lawmakers, we have entered the new year of legislation, a little further away from democracy, human rights, justice, equality and the rule of law. As bad as the current painting is, we will not give up hope for light, contemporary, secular Turkey. We won't compromise democracy and human rights where the law is above everyone else. I wish the year of our life to be blessed, that all our citizens may be a harbinger of the days of equality and freedom. Dear friends, the oldest city in the world, the cradle of civilizations, and the land of prophets, will not end in counting and recounting the problems of Şanliurfa. Counting them as headlines: the right to access health, insufficient doctors, nurses in hospitals, the lack of beds in hospitals, the lack of employment by Syrian people without a license, the problem of shutting down businesses due to the unfair competition of our citizens in Şanlıurfa, the problem of dealing with drugs, the problem of parking, the problem of drinking water, the problem of drinking water in the municipal bus stops; the problem of not finding banks in which our citizens, elderly, disabled and sick persons can sit; the problem of having to live in the city is that İzmir needs to be tied to Ankara, Istanbul, where all the villages that are now turning into neighborhoods in the past, even though there are no roads in the village, there are no road of the village, there is no road to the village of Shaufahur, nor is any garbage at the same time in the village. There are no municipal buses working from central to boroughs in Şanlıurfa. For example, he works in Istanbul today, works in İzmir, works in Ankara. Why can't Şanlıurfa Metropolitan Municipality run it, and why is it denied? It's about tourism and publicity: Şanlıurfa is not getting enough publicity for tourism and publicity, and it's really not enough. Plane tickets... the prices are higher when you compare Shanghai to Adıyaman and Gaziantep to Diyarbakır, but Adıyaman, Gaziantep, Diyarbakır's plane ticket prices are lower. We said the hospitals were inadequate, the schools were inadequate. The new prison, which was built -- it was built -- is close to Hilvan. There are no city buses where citizens can go to and from prison, dear friends. How's this citizen gonna get to prison? How will he make his visits? When we look at it that way, yes, if we count it, the Castle of Şanlıurfa is really the center of attraction for tourism. Restoration studies -- it's been decided in the past -- still haven't begun. At the same time, tribes dominate all the institutions in Şanlıurfa. So the chance of a poor citizen, the one who has no one, to enter the institutions in Şanlıurfa is really poor, and if you don't know one of the tribes, if you don't know one of the tribes, if you don't put your backs to the tribes, you'll be miserable. Indeed, Şanlıurfa has a governor, supposedly the mayor, has nine deputies; none of these problems have ever been solved. I don't think it's going to work out either, and I really don't think it's going to work out here, and there's, like, nine lucky deputies on the stand, and they're going to take care of these Urbans' water, and they're going to take care of it, and they're going to take care of it, and they're going to make their way, and they're going to drink water, and there's still no drinking water in Hilvan. There's still no drinking water in the dam, dear friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] So, let the people of Şanlıurfa know that, please, from now on, withdraw your support from the AKP, support CHP. We will represent you with honor, honor, and we will solve all your problems. If we don't solve your problems, no friend of ours will ever run for Congress in Şanliurfa again. So come, give us this right. Mr. Gutsy looks at me and laughs. For God's sake, you've been a congressman here for two semesters, and what problem have you ever said here? You've only done what you did; you've sworn, you've gone, you've come. That's why the public wants a solution here now. Thank you all.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0006par0052	Why don't you run from Urbana?
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0007par0053	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Kahramanmarash MP İmran Kılıç, who wants to speak on behalf of Mosques and Religious Officers Week. Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0008par0058	Mr. President, I congratulate you on your 1438th hijri year, your month of combat, the Camis and the Religious Officers Week. The temples are essential to religion, and the temples of Muslims are mosques. The word mosque is meant for the combination, the gathering, the bringing together. The religious term also means the place where the worship is mass. In Koran and circumcision, the mosque is expressed by the concept of the mescit. A mosque is a place of worship. The first mosque to be built on earth is the Masjid Haram, which is in Mecca. The first mosque of our Prophet Muhammad (SAV) is the Kuba Mosque near Medina. He then built the Masjid Nebewi. In the Qur'an and circumcision, the construction of mosques, maintenance, cleaning, and congregation have been highly valued. It has been revealed to those who believe in Allah and the Last Day, and perform As-Salat (Iqamat-as-Salat), and fear Allah, and build a mosque for Allah, that Allah will build for him a palace in Paradise, and that Allah's name shall not be mentioned in the mosques, and that those who strive to destroy the mosques are the Zalimun (polytheists and wrong-doers, etc.). Islam's religion aims to bring into the world alcoholic maturity, co-operation, solidarity, kindness, unity, and unity. The mosques are an educational center where these beautiful souls are taught collectively and in a better way. Because Muslims gather at the mosque without a difference and hold the same meetings. For every mosque and mosque there is a great honour. To show that honor, mosques are called the house of God, and they are respected. Dear lawmakers, in the fulfillment of religious, cultural, and social affairs carried out in mosques, there is a significant share of our religious officials, who work in every corner of our country and abroad without knowing the most difficult conditions, who are concerned about their problems, living with our people, having a conciliating and complementary attitude, never losing their sense of responsibility. Today, when people are rapidly pursuing spiritual and moral values, the responsibilities of our religious officials are also increasing, and they are carrying out their duties with respect, love, consistency, awareness, and precision. This is as much a method of preaching as it is the most natural way to succeed in the mission, to maintain and maintain social peace, but also a method of our religion. In the construction of our country's bright tomorrows, we once again emphasise that important services have fallen to religious officials, who have embraced the actions required by the Islamic religion, who have held their mission, who have made their vision in the light of progress, who have turned their sense of duty into a voluntary understanding, who watch their efforts with appreciation and pride, who celebrate the week of the mosques and the religious officials, who celebrate the week, thank those who have done the work, who have migrated to the afterlife. Because in our country's history, the painting in the years of the national struggle, the project in the republic's establishment, and the fact that on July 15th, the coupters used to lecture us about the persecution and coup, the moral and motivation of our nation, as important as it is to reveal the social structures of our religious officials in society, are documents and evidence of their success in the case of need. With these feelings, I congratulate you again on your 1438th hijindrem year and your month of combat, celebrating the week of the mosques and the clergy, and saluting all of you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0009par0066	Thank you. Congressmans, as you know, in accordance with the decision, we promised 15 MPs a minute of their space, that was our common decision, but in accordance with the request of the members of the group and the nature of the day, I will make a moment of my word to 25 members of parliament today. Mr. Aydın, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu, Mr. Arik, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Simsek, Mr. Özdış, Mr. Adıyüklüm, Mr. Taşkın, Mr. Akbasoğlu, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Karadeniz, Mr. Hakver, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Engin, Mr. Şan Yıldız and Mr. Toğrul. Then I'll promise the group vice presidents their seats, as always. Mr. Aydın, we'll start with you. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0010par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish that the year of the second legislature of the 26th century would bring success to our entire Assembly. I stress that the government should listen more to the voice of the opposition at this time. I also see a four-party commission for the government's statement yesterday as a positive development. However, we still have our doubts because there are examples of this in the past. Before the parliament closed, some of the opposition's objections were reached a compromise and the bag was removed from the law, but it was put back into practice by the Turkish Cypriots. Therefore, I wish the government would be more sincere in the matter of reconciliation. I'd like to recommend that the settlement be improved and done with a good workout at this time, thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0011par0077	Thank you. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0012par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. The Battle of Malazgirt, the rematch of the Battle of Malozgirt, took place between the Anatolian Seljuklu and the Byzantine Crusader alliance on September 17, 1176. The victory of Miryokefalon is an absolute victory in which the crusades were repelled and the world of the Crusades was shown to be certain that Anatolia could not be removed from the Muslim Turkish rule. This victory is one of the most epic examples of our beloved nation's struggle in unity and unity for its nation, its nation, its state. The traitor, who was again consciously attacked by the Crusades on July 15th, repulsed the coup attempt as it did in the Battle of Miryokefalon, our beloved nation, and showed the world that our nation is not bowing down, not bowing down. With these thoughts, I salute our martyrs, the High Council.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0013par0083	Thank you. Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0014par0086	Mr. President, thank you. Since New Year's, the EPDK has reduced twice the price of electricity that TETASH has sold to electricity distribution companies. These discounts were not reflected on our people's bill, they were transferred directly to the delivery companies' vaults. Also, a 10% natural gas reduction requires immediate reduction in electricity prices, as we have produced 48 percent of electricity from natural gas in 2014 and 38 per cent in 2015. There is a similar situation in 2016. As a country, we produce most of our electricity from natural gas. Therefore, the reduction in natural gas, however small and inadequate, should also be reflected in the retail prices of electricity and reduced to our people's bills. The cost of electricity sold to our people has been reduced, while the bill paid by our people has not been reduced. We invite the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources to the post.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0013par0088	Thank you, Mr. Akin. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0015par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. The decision was made to replace the IPEKISTI Factory, which was founded in 1925 in Bursa, with 250 rooms, and the project was approved by Osmangazi Municipality and Bursa Metropolitan Municipality. The court has filed a motion for destruction, and the court has decided to halt the execution of the destruction. Despite the court's decision to halt the execution, the destruction has been carried out. In the history of the Republic, there's never been a mafia government where the law is so messed up, court decisions are ignored. I say close the courts with the KHK, let people not crawl through the gates of the court, and I hope that this will be your final act of lawlessness, and from now on I invite everyone, especially the administrators, to respect the law, to respect the court's decisions. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0016par0095	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0017par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I wish the second year of the 26th century to the best of our Turkish nation. As if Turkey had no problems at all, we are now discussing the Turkish Republic's deed to the Treaty of Lausanne. Everyone should know that Lauzan is a treaty signed by those who sell parcels of this country, not by those who fled their homeland on a British ship, but by those who fought for the seven heifers that were completely independent of Turkey. Lozan has been a victory against the Turkish nation for centuries, allowing the great assassination, thought to have been completed by the Treaty of Sevr, to fail. Lozan is a text signed by those who say, "It is either the will or the death!" not those who say, "It is the will or the death." In short, Lausanne is the Republic of Turkey; Lausanne is the birthday of the Republic of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0018par0102	Thank you. Mr. Tuncer...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0019par0105	Mr. President, about three years ago, a faculty of economic administrative sciences was established in the District of Merzifon, Amasya Province, and this decision was published in the Official Gazette. However, there has never been an infrastructure study for the physical activity of the university of economic administrative sciences established in formality; it has no building, has no students, has no teachers, has nothing but its name in the official Official Gazette. After the July 15 coup attempt, the Ahi schools operating in Merzifon have been shut down and the building is registered for the treasure. The people of Merzifon demanded that the school building, which was registered for the treasure be activated as a faculty building, but this building was built in imam-hatip high school. In Merzifon, however, we have sufficient imam-gap high schools, but we do not have a faculty. Merzifonlu's request is that the school building registered to the treasure be assigned as a faculty building while it is in the country.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0018par0107	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0020par0110	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs -- Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, it concerns you, I will ask you, but -- in Turkey, Eagle City, Ataşehir Municipality, Maltepe Municipality and Şişli Municipality put all their expenses in their official budgets, and they also put it in their budgets for the month of war. As a result, according to the provisions of our Constitution, there is no service for our citizens, even though taxes have been taken on their income, and for our citizens who also have that belief. In this sense, I demand that the government first form a budget on this issue. In the same way, the 13th day of the month of battle must be vacationed. In what way? Indeed, a faith and a twelve-day fast are being fasted, and I give you all my regards and respect for the idea that the end of that twelve-day fast -- that the holiday of the 13th day -- would be beneficial for society's peace, peace, fertility, unification.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0021par0113	Thank you. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0022par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish the new year of life and the month of battle to be a blessing. We have received numerous complaints from our citizens regarding the appointment of teachers. We find the interview system wrong. We demand that the college graduates be appointed according to the KPSS. Our citizens understand the interview as a torpedo, and they believe that the one with no strings can't be a teacher. We expect people's security investigations to be assigned according to KPS scores. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, this week is Mosque Week. There have been no imams in the central mosques of our municipalities, which have closed down, in Tekeleli and Tekmen, Mersin Province, for a year and a half. Despite the fact that we've passed it on to the President of the Religious Affairs, there has yet to be a solution. Immediately, I expect imams to be appointed to the Tekale and Tetmen neighborhoods of Bozyaz. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0023par0121	Thank you. Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0024par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. Muhammad Can Çukurova University PDR graduate. Recently, he has been interviewing for teaching in Adana, receiving 80 points from the KPSS exam. Two questions are being asked; one of the questions is answering one of the questions, and as you are about to answer the second question and finish it, one of the commissioners asks a question, "Are you fasting?" Our friend says, "No, I'm not. The position of the commission is changing in the same way. This friend of ours gets 45 points from the interview. I'm asking the concerned minister here now: is this a measurement? Is fasting the measure of winning an interview? If not, I demand that those responsible be called to account in haste, that this and the victims of our friends in similar situations be removed. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0025par0128	Thank you. "Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0026par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish Muharrem bear to bring peace and peace. A statement issued by TÜBITAK on July 28th announced that the scholarship payments for national graduates and PhD students have been halted. Despite the past two months, there has been no official statement as to when the scholarship payments will begin again. We've submitted a question motion to the Minister of Science, Industry and Technology regarding the matter, but so far we haven't received any answers. Although the Minister has announced on September 8th that TÜBITAK scholarships will begin to be paid, he denies the Minister by saying that they have not received dozens of student scholarships that have contacted us. This verdict, on July 15th, victimised thousands of students who have earned a scholarship and continue their academic studies. I'd like to ask the government: Do you intend to take a step to address the problem of thousands of victims of TÜBITAK? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0027par0137	Thank you. Your Excessive...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0028par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish that the second year of the Second Legislature and the month of Muharrem should be good for our state, our nation and our entire heart geography. As lawmakers of the 26th century, we witnessed on July 15th that the greatest betrayal scenario we've had in our thousand-year history in Asia Minor has been staged by terrorists. For the first time in the history of our Veteran Assembly, it was bombed. In history, our beloved nation, who has shown unprecedented heroism, has gained a great victory over the attempted betrayal and occupation, and its future, our martyrs, our veterans. On this occasion, the 15th of July, I ask God's mercy to all our martyrs, to thank and thank our veterans. As lawmakers of all political parties in this new year of legislation, I think we should show the spirit of Yenikapi after July 15th in Parliament's work. My compliments to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0029par0145	Thank you. Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0030par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. I call upon my Lord Lord Lord Lord to bring peace, peace, prosperity, and happiness to all mankind, to our 1438th satire, and to our cyclical countrymen of the new year of life, to our saintly and noble nation, to our Islamic world, and to all mankind. May the Lord bless and bless the nation of the veterans to eliminate the games played against all the oppressed, just as he nullified the international operation that took place on July 15th. As representatives of the nation, it says that we must all work together to build a fair and merciful world again under the guidance of the great Turkey in the consciousness of this historic responsibility of our historical responsibility, congratulating you with this feeling and thinking, my respects.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0031par0151	Thank you. Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0032par0154	Mr. President, valued members, televisions, you know, are being shut down recently. Turkish Radio has been shut down. Free Radio can't broadcast right now, the officers just shut it down. I was going to make a press release with the guests at the House today, and I came across an obstacle. However, in the results report of the meeting, the chiefs of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey can issue a press conference in the National Assembly's press room with their guests until a new place is prepared in the public relations building. Nevertheless, our guests were tried to be removed, and we were forced to make a statement there. Why are you taking people out of the National Assembly, why are you afraid to let people in? Turkey's Grand National Assembly is where people's problems will be discussed and solved. We called it the nation's crown, but we don't let people in. They're showing us the door, the door. This month needs to be put to rest. 8 newspapers were closed on September 12th...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0033par0159	Thank you. I'll take care of what you're talking about, get some information from my friends. Mr. Behcet Yıldırım...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0034par0163	Thank you, Mr. President. We have removed the State of Emergency. He boasts that today he is trying to rule the country by decree of the National Security Council, the State of Emergency and the Law. Last week, the State of Emergency was extended on the recommendation of the National Security Council, and on the same day, 20 democrats, opposition television and radio channels were severely struck by blackouts, silences and sealing. Kurds such as Azadi TV, Balance TV, Hayat Sesi TV, Jiyan TV, TV10, Van TV, Zarok TV, İMC TV, Sound, Earth, Orda Radio, Alevis, democrats' TV and radio channels have been thrown out of the TÜRKSAT satellite. On top of that, the assets and capital of these institutions have been seized. This is an attempt at total destruction. I condemn and protest this unlawful decision and practice. I call on all press-release agencies, especially the Press Council and the Association of Journalists of Turkey, to make every legal attempt to get these unfair, illegal practices back. How long can this power last, even fearing Zarok TV?
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0033par0165	Mr. Hursit Yıldırım...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0035par0167	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I hope that the new year of legislation will be good for all of us, and the decisions we make on behalf of our nation will be beneficial. The political institution, which poses a national stance against the coup attempt of the traitoral cell on July 15th, owes life, gratitude and gratitude to our beloved nation. All of us must work at the speed of lightning for their 2023 targets, along with the change of the existing Civil Code, which slows the work of parliament and law enforcement, and the new constitution, which is what our nation expects. We, as politicians together, must maintain the unity of our nation in the field and in the streets after July 15th, and the spirit of Yenikapi as well as the political spirit of our national and domestic spirit. Together with the PKK, PYD, YPG, DEAŞ and all terrorist organizations, we must continue our fight most decisively. We must prepare our country for the future in social and economic areas. The biggest task in these matters falls to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and its valued members. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish you all the best for our new year of life.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0036par0171	Thank you. Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0037par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. In our country, unemployment and poverty are becoming increasingly common. The rate of income between the wealthy and the poor is broken against the poor. The government promises workers, pensioners, tradesmen, but promises are not fulfilled. Over 700,000 subcontractors are waiting. In three months, we will put the Tabheron workers on the staff. The problems of 4/C are unresolved. In the sugar factory, the staff problem of the non-employees who do the real work has not been resolved. Retired pensioners deserve retirement, but can't retire. Workers expect rights in international working norms. Workers are cut off from the union. The government must come up with a solution, not to promise the problems of workers, the problems of the poor. I wish Muharrem's grief to strengthen our brotherhood and unity. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0038par0178	Thank you. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0039par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. And in this year of legislation, we will continue to work to resolve the problems of our country and our people under this great House of Congress. Yes, October 3rd was the 11th year of the start of the negotiations process with the European Union. In this period of power, we have been the most unsuccessful country in the history of the European Union, which has continued to negotiate only 14 topics in 11 years. As noted in all progress reports published during this period, we are quickly moving away from basic values of Europe and, most importantly, the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, human rights and freedom of expression, such as the rule of law, which is the basis of our Constitution. We are dealing with the way our strategic relations with the European Union have been squandered on the short-term political interests of these ruling times and the way that we can put the failure of power to another.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0040par0184	Thank you. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0041par0187	I'm asking the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: The July 15 coup attempt has been confirmed by the MPs, and investigations have been conducted on the people in all areas, public officials have been suspended, many of them have been expelled, and many of the civil servants have been arrested. Although the situation is similar, some of the AKP's friends who served in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are also alleged to have co-operated, helped, and registered with ByLock. Has there been an investigation into the MPs in this situation? What kind of procedure was done about what was done? If it wasn't done, why wasn't it done? When will the political foot of the terrorist organization be cleaned at the Turkish Grand National Assembly? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0040par0189	Thank you. Mr. Black Sea...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0042par0192	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish that the year of the 26th century, the year of the Second Legislature, would bring peace and peace to all our nations. For Artvin Cerattepe, the Rize Administration Court of 2014 decided that the implementation of planned mining activities would deem the province of Artvin to be a living space for its residents. For the same project, the same court based on the scandal expert report, which found the Cerattepe mining project positive in every way, and this time rejected the decision. We think the decision was forced from somewhere. We are determined to continue a fight against freedom, democracy, peace and a clean nature to design a better world for those who want to destroy our values and environmental values. The winner of Cerattepe will not be the winner; the winner will be the people of Artvin in Cerattepe.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0043par0196	Mr. Hakver...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0044par0198	Thank you, Mr. President. What do you think of the travel events? Did you participate in the travel events? Who do you think of when it comes to the term "Reis"?
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0043par0200	Are you asking me this?
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0044par0201	You've been assigned east -- there's a different culture -- people have gone to Friday, what do you do? What do you think of Tarik Akan? Now, I'd like to ask the teachers a few questions: Do you have morals, do you have God?
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0043par0204	Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0045par0206	Samsun Bafra, Wednesday, Terme, Alaçam, Tekkeköy districts have a large percentage of revenue resources, and in other parts of our country, the cost of proliferation in very difficult conditions is not announced, and the transaction of 1,000 euros to 1,500 euros for the price of a single ton is caused by the victimization of our farmer. The average price of a ton of potatoes across the country is $300, and the average price of a ton of onions is $350. We call upon the government: that the produce of our farmer should not be left in the field... if you have a conscience, as the government governs the country, take care of the manufacturer, the farmer, the victims, and support them.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0046par0209	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0047par0211	Thank you, Mr. President. Just after the coup attempt, I asked the AKP's government to honestly explain to me what the Gulen Congregation wanted and what they were given. In the past two and a half months, there has been no explanation between the AKP and the Smiley Congregation on the quality of co-operation and solidarity in the political and economic area over the years and the size of the concessions. It remains unclear how and what references the thousands of public personnel who have been removed from office and arrested have been staffed in the state, what kind of supports are given to the schools of the laughing community abroad and abroad. The AKP, which has ruled our country alone for 14 years, is also thought that no attempt has been made against those who support the Smiley Congregation. The AKP government must face its mistakes if it wants to deal with them in essence and not in a so-called way, and our citizens must pay for these mistakes...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0048par0215	Mr. Division...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0049par0217	Mr. President, even though the officers of the criminal executions are partners to the police and the gendarmes, their rights are extremely inadequate. For example, they don't even have a union right. They are considered a safety class, but are in the general administrative services class instead of the security services class. Members of the Justice and Judiciary Units take advantage of more than 50 hours a month of work, while those in the penal execution agency are unable to take advantage of this right. In contrast, staff work 24 hours a day, and they deserve a lot of overtime. In Western European countries, those who receive the same service are expected to improve their rights, pay raises, and social benefits, as they are referred to as the prison police. These days, prisoners and prisoners have far above the capacity of prisons, they must also use the right to obtain weapons licenses for service and housing and pensions...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0048par0219	Thank you. Mr. Star...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0050par0222	Thank you, Mr. President. You know the cotton harvest has begun. Aydın is Turkey's second largest plain. When the cotton harvest started, cotton was $5.80. Ten days later, however, the government gave two firms their cotton import papers. These two companies import cotton from Syria, but of course we don't know which organization the cotton in Syria belongs to. On this occasion, the brokers used this to reduce the current cotton in farmers to $4.70, $4.60. Will the Minister of Agriculture or the Deputy Prime Minister do any research on this, or how did these two firms get the authority to import this cotton from you? I want information on this. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0051par0225	Thank you. Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0052par0228	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we have learned that 23 broadcasters were shut down a few days ago within the framework of a decree issued earlier. On one question, Deputy Prime Minister Numan Survivor said that the state of these channels would be reconsidered according to the report from RTÜK, but yesterday the ownership of these televisions was seized by hand. More than that, Zarok TV is just a channel that publishes Kurdish cartoons, and we're really curious about that for what reason. Did they shut down Papa Smurf's methods of fighting against Gargamel, in case he found out about the Kurdish children? That's where I'm asking the Minister.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0051par0230	Thank you, lawmakers. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who have requested a word. First of all, Mr. Akchay, you have the floor. Your time is two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0053par0236	Thank you, Mr. President. We have begun the Second Year of the Second Legislature of the 26th century, and may it be good luck to our country, to our nation, and to our Assembly. At a time when our country is going through a very difficult process, we are all faced with a historic responsibility. Our work in the Turkish Grand National Assembly during the new legislative year is of great importance to the future of our country. A government that operates primarily in democracy, law and justice, especially in the fight against terrorism, a prosperous and improved country is our most important goal. I'd like to remind all parties in this frame that we need to show a principled stance, not conjunctural, to all our fellow MPs. Just as we all stood together against the coup attempt on the evening of July 15th, we must stand together against every non-democratic search and every effort to create a de facto situation and all kinds of failures and civil war provocations. Polymixes, debates, camps, polarizations harm nation and state life. We, all political parties in the High Assembly, must first obey the principle of my country and my nation, leaving all political interests and concerns aside. On Sunday, October 2nd, it was the beginning of the month of battle. The month of Muharrem is a month of sorrow and mourning; and the month of battle is a torch for those who love truth and justice, and for those who do not bow to persecution. On the 10th day of this month, we will remember the martyrs of Kerbala. In Kerbala, the Prophet of God, my flower in the world. His name is Hussain and 70 innocent people from his household...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0054par0242	I'll give you an extension. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0053par0244	...has become the embodiment of courage for the underdogs who do not bow to the law. On this occasion, our Lord Hussain the martyr of martyrs, the martyrs of Kerbela, and to this day I celebrate the month of battle, the month of mercy, gratitude, gratitude, and respect, all who have died for honor and glory, for truth, justice, justice, morality, and virtue.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0054par0246	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Ironel, please.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0055par0249	Mr. President, as the 26th Year of the Second Legislature began, unfortunately, we began with a war thesis on the first day of this year of life. Whereas we were hoping for a new era in the name of peace, freedom and democracy. As you know, with the start of the fighting fast, the Alevis remember the year of the Kerbala massacre, with a constant cry of the pain of that day and a greeting of the resistance of that day. And I remember them once more with respect. During this process, during the month that we lived, the House was on vacation, unfortunately, the country went through a very difficult process before and after. In private, with extraordinary circumstances, the country was tried to be ruled by law enforcement. In this month's period of disqualification of Parliament, I'd like to once again condemn an understanding that, with a second coup, the will of the chosen was ignored, which began with the appointment of trustees to municipalities in private, and the will of the elected. Because we can never talk about democracy in that country unless local will is a local democracy. I'd like to start by underlineing that. And the assigned trustees are in private...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0056par0254	I'll give you an additional minute, Mr. Ironel, complete, please.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0055par0255	...it's not acceptable for him to target women's institutions. Again, in the meantime, another massacre was a massacre against the workers. We're dealing with detentions, suspensions and arrests of teachers due to their union membership. Let's just say that we never agreed to this and that this coup to the workers must be taken back as soon as possible. Again, everyone's expressed it, and once again, we've been informed that the pressure and slaughter policy on the press workers must be terminated immediately... that at this moment, Özgür Radio has been raided and 16 employees have been beaten and taken into custody. Again, we've seen the same impact footage today -- to İMC TV -- as the coup d'état on July 15th was done to the press... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and we don't accept this massacre on all media outlets. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0057par0261	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0058par0264	Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to express hope that we will have a period in which we will be able to repay the Parliament of the 26th Year of the Second Legislature, our country, our people, the people, the people, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the orphans, the workers, the peasants, the tradesmen, the public, the students, the teachers, what they expect. We are in the holy month of battle, and we still feel the pain of the battle moon in our hearts for a thousand and three hundred and thirty-six years. We share the feelings, the pain of the mourners. We hope that their meetings will be accepted by God. It's Earth Save Animals Day. On February 15, 2012, for the first time in the 24th century in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, a Minister and representatives of the 4 parties agreed on a bill and held a press conference, but then various lobbying activities did not allow this bill, which had full consensus on it. As a member of parliament who followed that session with great enthusiasm on that day, I need to remind the MPs of that day of their promise to each other and to the tiny souls, that the cats may beat the ones who broke their promise. I'm afraid that promise didn't hold up. In order to keep that promise during this period, I would like to say that we expect a new study from all sides, especially through the agreed-upon text of Law 5199. It's also World Children's Day on the first Monday of October.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0059par0270	I'll give you an extension for a minute. Please complete it, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0058par0272	Thank you. It's up to all of us to create a world where children don't lose their lives in war, they don't cry, they don't become orphans, we can give children a taste of sugar, not pain, and they can live their physical, mental, spiritual development in the best environment. The Republican People's Party organises the National Children's Policy Worker on Saturday (October 15th 16th) and Sunday (October 16th). This work on education, health care, social benefits and the subtitles of justice is being brought to the attention of the public in Turkey, and we invite the entire Parliament to contribute to our work. And finally, it's Earth Architecture Day again. On the one hand, we salute both representatives of the Parliament and representatives of the Republican People's Party, which is an academic education and art. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0060par0276	Thank you. Mr. Special, I was at the press conference you mentioned. Mr. Hasip Kaplan expressed that promise at that meeting.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0058par0278	Yeah, let his ears ring.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0060par0279	I was one of those who followed that law a lot. I promise, this year I will follow the Law on Animal Protection together. I'm hoping we'll all make law in this legislature together. And thank you for reminding me.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0058par0280	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0060par0281	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0061par0283	Mr. President, thank you. May the new era be good for our country, for our nation. This opening of the House has a different meaning after July 15th. If the July 15 coups were successful, God forbid, as a dark organization, the nation would build a structure in the history of its will and interests, attracting people's resources, human resources, and material resources. In the eyes of the people, in the ears, in the dark processes they missed, they were going to run a country. I'm telling you, it's important: Congress is open, the will of the nation is represented by all parties in the House, it's represented by transparent, open processes, everyone says they will. It's the beauty of democracy, the beauty of democracy, the nation's will and democracy, where all parties stand together against the coupgers on July 15th. In that sense, the work of the House is very important, in a public way, to continue these studies. July 15th showed us how important and vital our partnerships are as much as our differences. We all had some results from July 15th, I'm sure. Political competition will be, of course, and the government will see things differently. These will be expressed, but I think we'll always remember the partnerships, and I think that under the same sky, a consciousness, a knowledge, a language will exist in each of our acquishs. I hope and hope that many examples of this will come out in the coming period. On the other hand, I am celebrating the year of everyone's hijri; it is the year of 1,438. Muharrem bear... the fact that Muharrem bear and the Hicrem bear are in our collective memory of the year means that, like other historical events, they don't just exist in history, but they move into the future with constant updates. Basically, when history comes out of history and moves into the future, it makes sense when it brings light to us. We're all heirs to a tradition where the pain is honey. And from the suffering of Kerbela, the ability, the ability, the skill, the wisdom of this country to remove humanity's brotherhood, the solidarity of mankind, exists in this land, in this ancient culture. We see the Muharrem month in this frame and congratulate it on this frame. Of course, he speaks to us from the depths of history as part of the same collective memory year after year. I give my regards to our society, with the blessing of our country, with the unity of our country, with the debate of course, but always remembering the partnerships.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0062par0289	Thank you very much, Mr. Botanci. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Members of Parliament, Minister of Culture and Tourism Nabi Avcı, wanted to respond together to proposals from the agenda of the "Promised Questions" section 1, 58, 76, 82, 100, 102, 103, 104, 120, 128, 150, 151, 152, 218, 246, 259, 351, 351, 356, 356, 356, 364, 365, 388, 394, 409, 414, 428, 440, 441, 441 and 457. I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. Members of the Parliamentary Research Commission (10/276, 277, 277, 279) of members previously elected to the Council Research Commission on Tuesday (October 4th 2016), which is Tuesday (October 1, 1900) at the beginning of this day, the main building is the chairman, the deputy speaker, and the secretary of Parliament's commissions, in the meeting room, which aims to determine the measures needed to be taken in all directions to the activities of this Terror Organization. The meeting place and time of the commission has also been announced on the announcement screens.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0063par0297	Mr. President, I'd like a word on the matter.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0062par0298	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0063par0301	Mr. President, this commission was set up by a joint Parliamentary will to investigate the coup attempt, expose its responsible, and never again happen. We find that extremely positive, even though he's late in his work. Today, as you have just presented, the presidential court will be elected. And on that day, We drowned all the parties together, and you were among the nearest of the witnesses. Some souls are mentioned -- the spirit of the new door -- but most importantly, the spirit of July 15th. With the joint signatures of the four parties, the declaration issued by the Speaker of Parliament, and the declarations of Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President, Mr. State Bahlı, and Mr. Group Deputy President Idris Baluken on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party were crucial in terms of the coup and made a very important emphasis on the perception of the whole world in terms of the fight against the coup. Today, this commission will begin its work and will select four presidential council members; there are four parties in parliament. Before that, we ignored the problem until we got doped in the head of Charpınar, and we said, "Doping research, we'll build the presidential court alone." He said, "We'll create the presidential court alone." We had the Soma disaster, we cried 70 million, the presidential court was made up of one party. But now, in the fight against this coup -- sometimes, the commission has its own agenda, of course, but when it gets there, it's too late -- political parties, political parties officials should hear this call, this expectation. We hope that the coup will also take all representations in the research commission. Instead, we expect an equal distribution of representation, and the first step in the commission working in unity and unity. We'll keep an eye on the commission. I present the attention of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0064par0306	Thank you. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has three papers, and I will have them read separately and present them to your knowledge. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Following the resignation of Izmir MP Ibrahim Mustafa Turhan, representing the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (AKPM), under Article 3620 of Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the membership of Bursa MP Cemalettin Kani Torun has been approved by the Presidential Court. It is presented to the General Assembly's information. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Grand National Assembly of Turkey was eligible to visit our country on August 18, 2016 and 20 August, as well as the chairman of the Afghanistan-Turkey Interparliament Group for Friendship. The visit of the delegation to our country is submitted to the information of the General Assembly under Article 7 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Grand National Assembly of Turkey was eligible to visit our country with its Council of Ministers' decision, August 18, 2016 and 20th, as well as the chairman of the Canadian-Turkey Interparliament Group for Friendship. The visit of the delegation to our country is submitted to the information of the General Assembly under Article 7 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. It has been presented to your knowledge. Congressmans, there are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I will have the motions read separately. In the second place, the parliamentary research motion that I'm going to read will be read a summary of the motion because it is more than 500 words, but the full text of the motion will be included in the Tutorak Magazine. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, 90 per cent of domestic transportation is done by road transport. Transport is an important cog of the economy, as well as a sign of the development of societies. The problems of the trucker's shop, which is approaching 1 million, have increased during AKP power, and the tradesman has voiced his reaction by shutting down contacts in many parts of our country. One of the biggest problems of the trucker's business is the document issue and the paperwork mix-up. Under different names (K1, K2, K3, SRC3, SRC4 etc.), the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications has added to the problems of our tradesman who is already trying to bring bread home in a difficult situation. The charge for a warrant from our shop that can't buy new tires for their vehicles and is trying to move them out of their tires is bending the back of the trucker's shop. It is also important for the future of the sector that the state takes the necessary steps to change the old trucks found in most of the truckers' business, offering zero interest loan opportunities. The largest cost entry in freight transport is the fuel input that shows a continuous increase. The trucker's shop is trying to hold on to this sector using cheap diesel and 10 thinned oils. The fact that air travel and cheap gas support provided by the government for shipping the seaway is not provided with a large percentage of transport and land-road transportation is increasingly diminishing the power of the trucker's trade. The sector faces many challenges in itself, especially with rising costs due to tough competition and rising oil prices. Another important problem in the sector is that traffic insurance and insurance costs are high. When our truck drivers specifically request visas from a Schengen country, they are forced to prepare about 20 necessary documents. Many of the truckers who are struggling with problems work as part of the shipping companies. After moving the trucker shop somewhere, he can barely get the gas money out of his truck on his way back, so he's moving it from place to place for throat food. The current situation of our country's land transport industry, particularly the trucker's trades, is to be opened under Parliamentary investigation of Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the solutions to the problems it faces. [[Bolu]] [[Tripoli]] [[Denizli]] 4) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Ankara]] [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[40s.]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Slap]] [[Antalya]] 13) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] 17) Brült Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] 20) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Edirne]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Turkish iron steel industry is strategic in Turkey's economic development and industrialisation. Since 2012, the sector has been on the brink of a crisis due to constant loss of blood in exports and capacity use, the narrowing of foreign markets and political fluctuations in the Middle East. The lack of incentive and protection measures to the local steel manufacturer is among the sector's most important problems as exports fall as a result of developments in foreign policy, as Russia and China enter the Turkish market and no measures are taken against the damping steel sale. Due to the recession of the sector, some steel production factories have been laid off. In order to investigate the problems of iron steel production, capacity use and foreign trade, as a result of that, we would like to establish a research commission under the terms of Article 104 and 105 of our Civil Charter, in order to inform the sector and our people and ensure the implementation of the solutions. With all due respect. [[Hatay]] [[Slap]] [[40s.]] [[İstanbul]] 5) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] 10) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[Denizli]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] 22) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Denizli]] [[Samsun]] 25) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] 26) Bulent Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] [[Tripoli]] [[Edirne]] The iron steel industry, one of the engine elements of Turkey's industrialisation and economic development, is the head of the most important sectors to be supported by the state. Iron steel sector, which is important for industrialisation in Turkey, is also important for construction, machinery and automotive sectors. Turkey has increased its raw steel production capacity by 153 per cent since 2000, but steel production has declined since 2012. As of the first ten months of 2015, 17.7% of the capacity for steel production has been released. Steel consumption has increased by 21.5 per cent since 2012, depending on developments in the construction, machine and automotive sector in Turkey. Steel consumption has increased above the world average, and Turkey has become an importer of steel from Russia and China due to poor domestic and foreign policy decisions. As of 2015, Turkey became a net importer country in steel. There's blood loss in our exports. In 2012, exports of steel products, 20.2 million tonnes, were reduced to 13.9 million tons during the first ten months of 2015. The biggest loss of markets in iron steel exports has been in the countries of the Far East and South Asia, with a loss of 38.9% in the last year. Steel exports to the Commonwealth countries have been reduced by 29.8 per cent in the last year, and steel exports to Middle Eastern countries by 8.6 per cent. The loss of dollars in exports to the Middle Eastern countries occurred at 25.4 per cent. Our steel imports increased from 11.8 million tons in 2012 to 15.8 million tons during the first ten months of 2015. The two countries where we import most steel products are Russia and China. Russia, which we imported 1.8 million tonnes of steel in January 2014 and in October 2014, raised it to 3.7 million tonnes during the same period of 2015. Russia has increased its imports to Turkey by 95 per cent in a year. China, which practically occupied the Turkish market, increased its imports to 2.3 million tonnes in 2015, with 664 thousand tons in the first ten months of 2014. China's increase in imports to Turkey by 250 per cent in a year has caused local producers a great deal of distress. In terms of the painting of the Turkish steel manufacturer, China and Russia have reached a position in Turkey's market. Turkey's capacity in steel production has increased at a record level, while its capacity in 2014 has dropped from 68 per cent to 62 per cent in 2015. Sales policies, which have carried out half the world's steel production and have exported four times as much steel to the world as China's total steel production, are lowering prices worldwide and harming producers of countries such as Turkey, who are unable to benefit from state assistance. As a matter of fact, in some facilities in our steel sector, production has been completely halted, and in some facilities the number of shifts has been reduced or reduced to a minimum of production. This has led many businesses to employ workers by reducing employment. In the first nine months of 2015, the brother of the integrated steel manufacturers reported the loss of $211 million. In the current environment of devastating competition, the United States and the European Union have gone on a road to limiting their imports to protect their own industry against countries implementing aggressive export policy. Some countries began implementing dump tax rates over 200 per cent against imports from China, while some went to protect the domestic market by limiting imports from all countries. Investigating the negative conditions of the Turkish steel industry, the study of the extraordinary decline in production and capacity use rates, the prevention of importing increased steel consumption and support of local producers. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Maraş massacre was a massacre against the citizens of Alevi, which took place on December 19th and December 26, 1978 in Kahramanmarash. According to official figures, 105 citizens were killed during seven days of events. Over 200 houses belonging to the Alevis were burned down, and nearly 100 households were destroyed. After 23 years of trials, 22 people were sentenced to death, 7 were sentenced to life imprisonment, 321 were sentenced to one to 24 years. 68 people who played an important role in the massacre were not reached. With respect, we offer and offer the basis for the introduction of the facts behind the massacre, for the public sharing of documents in the state archives, for the opening of the Constitution's 98th, Internal Charter's 104th and 105th Articles, and for the opening of Parliament's research. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Ankara]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Scholarship]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[40s.]] 12) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] 21) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Denizli]] 23) Bulent Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] The Maraş massacre is one of the most painful incidents in Turkey's recent history. Turkey's recent history, I'm afraid, is full of pain and tears for opponents. Calendar leaves constantly remind us of another painful event. For this reason, events must be illuminated and those responsible should be punished in order to keep the social memory alive and to avoid similar sufferings. Social peace is one of CHP's most important goals and is the axis of our policies. We, CHP, argue that we embrace every part of society, that every part of society should live in peace, prosperity, and peace. The Maraş massacre is organized against leftist and Alevi citizens. If we can't share our sorrows and joys as a country, the result will be that everyone grieves for their own suffering. This is the biggest obstacle to social peace. Eyewitness accounts of the Maraş massacre and statements made to court records are blood-freezing. It's common for people who face such a massacre to live in pigeon shyness. The state is responsible for securing its citizens. It's a shame for the administrators to live in fear of the safety of citizens. Today, we still have citizens who are concerned for their safety and have lost faith in justice because the true perpetrators of the Maras massacre were not found. The marathon massacre is a bloody plan committed violently. All confidential correspondence and intelligence reports from that period must be shared with the public. It is imperative that parliamentary investigations be opened in order to bring the facts to light, to inform the public, and to determine who is responsible. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has three other articles: I will read them separately and submit them to your votes: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The US Capital of the United States is presented to the General Assembly under the 9th Amendment clause of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28.3.1990 and on the basis of the Parliamentary Committee's annual meeting of the World Bank and International Money Fund, which will be held on October 3, 2016 in Washington, the capital of the United States. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (AKP) and Parliamentary Assembly's Social Affairs, Health and Sustainable Development Committee will hold a parliamentary seminar on the right to protect children and young people on October 28, 2016. The seminar is submitted to the General Assembly under the 9th Article of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28.3.1990, and on the basis of Article 3620. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Council of Europe shall hold an inter-parliament conference on stability, Economic Co-ordination and Management, in Bratislava, the capital of Slovakia from 16 October to 18 October 2016. The issue of accession to the conference is submitted to the General Assembly's approval under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey No. 3620, dated 28/3/1990. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday/10/2016 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. On 12 August 2016, İzmir MP Ertugrul Kürkçı and his friends suggested that the meeting be read in a joint joint session of 4/10/2016 Tuesday (July 15th) in a joint union with students registered at the 15 foundation higher education institutions and academic staff and employees, given to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in order to investigate the victim's injury. In favour of the group proposal of Peoples' Democratic Party, Van MP Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan will speak first. Here you are, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0065par0560	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I hope and hope that the second year of the 26th century, the year of the Second Legislature, will be good for all peoples of Turkey. In fact, the practices that were revealed during the closed period of the House and the State of Emergency and the Law, have indeed contained a large number of unlawfulities, and in such a short period of time, the practices that have victimised tens, thousands of people, millions of students, have reached a real level of lawlessness. In ten minutes, it's impossible to handle them one by one, but I'll try to sum them up as much as possible. Again, having approved the declaration of war on the opening day of the second year, and starting to work with the State of Emergency on a decision to continue to govern, in anticipation of hope, has made the millions in this Parliament even more anxious. However, the best words to be said to the people would be to say that, in effect, the State of Emergency regime, which continues to be carried out in a terrible legal manner, would be to say that the arrangements to address injustices would be made, and that the expected future from the current government could only be met with such steps. Unfortunately, we understand from the practices and decisions made, that there is no government and no government at the moment that will take responsibility for meeting that expectation. Members of parliament, the State of Emergency, which has been declared to be implemented for three months on July 20, 2016, and, as I said, will continue to be extended for three months, is a step towards not preventing the coup, but to prove the actual dictatorship system to the public of Turkey. To sum up the situation that we face today, five days after the attempted coup attempt, an authoritarian regime was built with decrees that would violate the Articles on the State of Emergency and Article 15 of the Constitution, Article 15 of the ECHR and Article 4 of the United Nations Convention on Civil Rights and the Fourth Amendment. It has become clear that the decrees in the law are now aimed at liquidating anyone who opposes the practices of power, who opposes injustices, protests blockades, protests against Ankara's massacre, who says, "Don't let the children die." With decades of struggle and resistance, organized, democratic public officials who have earned their rights by their teeth have been targeted. As you know, the public staff regime is one of the good practices that can set an example in Turkey. It is the trade union activities, and today the unionisation rate has reached 71.3 per cent in Turkey. However, 11.301 teachers were suspended under the final decree of the law. When we look at their suspension and look at the specifics of the suspended teachers, the government's main intention is to emerge immediately. Almost all of them are teachers in Kurdish provinces, and the ones in the west are Kurdish teachers who were previously appointed from Kurdish provinces, and 90 per cent of them are teachers from YOU. Again, according to other features, either he was involved in the protest of the Ankara massacre, or he was protesting from the government's social media accounts, and lastly, he complied with a day-long strike decision taken by KESK on December 29th, and he was released on grounds of that decision. When KESK left work on December 29th, it was a decision made on the grounds that the children should not die, that they should come to the school. But you know that there have been no schools in Şırnak for a year, and you asked them to evacuate them by texting the teachers in Sur. On what grounds? Later, the blockaded cities were destroyed, the children were killed, and we asked many times, and you didn't answer. You let teachers leave jobs there, torture the whole community with blockades, turn schools into barracks, and watch children get killed, you become accomplices to the killings. The teachers will leave. You said, "There will be deaths and killings," because you said, "There will be killings and killings." Well, have you ever asked a single question about death and murder in the past year, a punishment, a sanction for the teachers who let them leave their jobs for a reason? Is there a decree in one law? No, I don't. There are no investigations, no questions. Nine months after that strike decision, with the excuse of the State of Emergency and its opportunisticism, in the middle of the night, you approved those teachers, the Kurdish teachers who worked in KESK/EDUC, SENI Kurdish provinces, with this opportunism. Yes, countries can declare the State of Emergency and declare martial law. If there are serious dangers, the basic limit is to protect the safety and future of the citizen of his country, of course, all of these practices and decisions can be made. The grounds for the State of Emergency and the measures that need to be taken are understandable, of course. On the night of the July 15 coup attempt, the soldier, who was there to protect his people, killed about 225 citizens, injured hundreds, even the Capitol bombing, of course, required immediate regulation. Perhaps we've encountered an initiative that we've never encountered before. But even under the conditions of the State of Emergency, there are fundamental values that need to be maintained, which at the very beginning are the rule of law. As a matter of fact, rights and law have the power to give direction to living by mandatory rules, even in the most difficult of times. It is a polar star that everyone must turn and look at in order not to be surprised by its direction, and the rules of law are stated that you can take urgent measures to prevent the dangers that you cannot avoid in the most extraordinary situations, in both the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights, and in international principles. If you cross that line, there's no law anymore, there's no rule of law, and the real danger is the process of breaking up with the law. The coup d'état means law and unrestricted. So, no matter what the coup d'état or the anti-victim, it requires defending the rule of law. Not to turn off newspapers and televisions, not to bring the detention period up to 30 days or not to investigate torture claims; rather, expanding rights and freedoms can eliminate the threat of coup, destroying the ground that the coupists have prepared for themselves. The people of Turkey are familiar with the State of Emergency and so on. The martial law declared in November 1978 was permanent in the coup d'état of September 12th and ended in 2002. Again, this government ended it, but by bringing it up again and restricting all basic rights and freedoms, you will not be able to search that period, and you will not get anywhere with practices beyond that period. Remember, there's no reading of governments, people, actors, who rule and govern at the time. Mr. President, the United Nations expects response from Turkey for more than 200 of our people who were murdered in the three basements of brutality in Cizre. The government is obliged to ask about the fate of the people who were murdered during these blockades, who did not prevent the removal of thousands of military and judicial members for the coup attempt. We'd like to remind you of that responsibility again. As we have noted, the Constitutional Court established an approach to the border of the State of Emergency 25 years ago, and the differences and results between the usual ordinances in the rule of law and the rulings in the state of emergency law are as follows: There is no limit in the provisions of the Article 121 of the Constitution, which can be issued according to the third joke of the Constitution. The regulations of such laws are clearly regulated in the Constitution, limited to the requirements of the state of emergency or the state of martial law. For this reason, you do not have the luxury of issuing a decree against the Constitution -- as the Ministry of Justice has made clear. If he doesn't know that, let's remind the Attorney General again. Even in extraordinary situations, decrees cannot be issued in violation of the Constitution. Everyone has the obligation and responsibility to observe the provisions set out by law and purpose. Dear friends, as I end my words, I submit to you all the knowledge of the Constitutional Court and the need to be audited by the Constitutional Court for the laws that must be passed under Parliament's supervision. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0066par0574	Thank you, Mr. Ozky Ertan. The People's Democratic Party will speak first against the group's proposal, Mr. Ruhi Ersoy of Osmaniye. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0067par0578	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I wish that the second year of the 26th term, and simultaneously the month of combat, bring peace, unity, unity to the great Turkish nation's family. It's obvious how much you need social peace. The nationalist Movement Party, which is the slogan for a peaceful future and public restoration election declaration, is also taking it as a reference to it and walking the road. The disputed issue and a research proposal specifically asked to be opened is about investigating the situation of students who were victims at the closed foundation universities. Now, this was especially done after the July 15 terrorist initiative, the coup, the junta-involved terrorist activity, the study of the mindset that bombed this Assembly, to remove its roots from Turkey, so a university was not shut down for no reason. There are truths about who these universities are aiding and abetting. For one thing, it is our primary responsibility to make political arguments especially through this July 15th reality. As a result, of course, many individuals, the institution, have been involved in human sacrifices and experienced difficulties. In the case of the victims and those who are suffering, the National Party of Action and the political institution are making an effort to resolve these problems. Today, at the first group meeting of the 26th Year of the Second Legislature, Mr. President State Gardened has made our main approach to these issues in a comprehensive way. I would like to briefly remind the lawmakers who have no opportunity to follow him, in order to describe where we stand, that now in our life of politics and democracy, everything will take shape after July 15th. Endless threats, unrelenting dangers will only be faced this way. We said we'd stick to the spirit of the new door. Word comes out of our mouth once. We're more than invincible prophets of the cause, and we're too proud and men of faith to break our word. We made a covenant with our people, and we didn't look for an opportunity to put them in the government, to put them in harm's way, and we didn't need to. I don't want anyone to wonder, when it comes to right and legitimate reasons, of course we've done our democratic criticism of the government, we'll do it, and we'll continue to do it. But we know from experience that this country suffers a lot from political feuds, and we carry it in our memory records. • Principles where the leader of the nationalist movement has not been established determine the basic principle of the National Party of Action and its actions. In this crisis and chaos of the state, the victims of these students were not left out of the issue, not only by determining the situation of the nationalist Movement Party in the transfer of victims of students to public universities or exemplified universities in the closed universities. He shared his views and opinions with the state's institution in contact with the SEC's office from the date when this incident took place, and his reports on the solution of the problem with academics-based lawmakers. In this regard, as an institution of the Republic of Turkey, we discussed the matter for a week with the four-member academics of the Millitarian Movement Party, which I was present with -- Professor Dr. Mevlüt Karakaya, Professor Kamil Aydın, Professor Ahmet Selim Yurdakul -- and with a delegation of our members of the Council of Ministers and as Ruhi Ersoy -- to discuss the matter. As an experienced politician, and also a professor, Mr. President, we took advantage of his experience when we discussed our work with State Garden Bey, and in the late 1970s, how some private schools had been shut down, and how they had become part of the public school, and how their second teaching practices had begun, he himself enriched our work. We have submitted our views on the solution of the problem with constructive proposals in this scope to the head of the SEC with a meeting that lasted about four hours. In fact, we have seen a very constructive group of behaviors and attitudes and behaviors, especially in this particular case, at the minimal reduction of the victimization point of the YOK, and we have seen that the issues are being monitored by the moment by politicians as they are asked and by the students who are often dealing with questions and answers, by the public, by putting them on their websites. Now the country lives in a state of emergency. In some ways, we need to work at the point where this State of Emergency will be repaired with minimal damage. Now, rather than knowing the opportunity, we're more interested in creating social tension, greater polarization, and more of an effort to solve things in place than to be the solution to the solution to this problem, rather than to be a partner and feed them with our ideas. The same is true of the victims of many civil servants who have been suspended by law enforcement decrees. In this regard, we also make efforts to reassess the issues with the lists sent over our party, which we think are being victimized and that the people who have been seen and come to us are being given a comprehensive explanation of whether or not they really have a relationship with the group. In this regard, MPs from the National Movement Party have made such efforts as a serious rehabilitation centre and an institution that deals with the problems of people who are victims. But we, the people who are living the night of the July 15 coup attempt, the terrorist junta activity... and now, at the time of the bombing of this high-profile Capitol roof, I speak as an MP in this House, speaking as a member of parliament who knows that the hearts of the absentee friends are here: as expressed by our president-in-chief, everything will be shaped by July 15th in our political and democratic lives. With minimal damage to Turkey's formation, it will strive to fulfill its part of the nationalist, international movement in every way for social repairs and a peaceful future. Of course, the criticism of politics and opposition when it comes to its place is determined by time and ground, but those who are consistent with the policies of the Nationalist Movement Party will see this: that I am the country who can say, "If General is a citizen first," and that his politics are not self-centered, personal-centered, political-based, political-based, political-based, political-based; that the state is doing it with an understanding to the end of the period of time and time, people. For this reason, the National Movement Party of the University of Turkey, which has been closed, continues its views and opinions on the issues of the university students who have been closed, with intense zeal from August to this side. He says that those who have thought more about the opinion and solution partnership than that such a commission is being set up under parliament's roof should contribute to the resolution by sharing their opinions and opinions with relevant institutions, and I salute the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0068par0586	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. The People's Democratic Party will finally speak in favour of the group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Carabinieri.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0069par0590	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the proposal to investigate the victims of 15 closed foundation universities. With respect to the Veterans' House, I wish you the best of the new year of life. I wish Muharrem's grief to bring brotherhood and peace to our country. Precious representatives, 15 foundation universities were closed, 14 have students, and 65,226 students woke up one morning as victims and saw their school closed. It was a mystery what kind of placement would be in the closing schools, and these children were left with a lot of problems during that period, and we worked hard to be there for them. At times, three times a day, we went to the YOK, sometimes three times a week. All our friends at the Board of Education -- they're all here -- made an effort, and sometimes on the problem, sometimes on the problem, we tried to build solutions, almost a bridge. I don't know how closely you've watched this process, but these 65,226 students have had a very bad time, and sometimes they're desperate to see that their problems aren't solved, and they're depressed, and sometimes they're hopeful, and we've tried to find a solution to their problems. These students didn't just have residential problems; the preference system was changed twice, they had attitude problems. I even know that we put up a huge fight with the precious MPs so that they don't have the names of their former universities in their diplomas, and they've come to this day. They still have problems at the last point, and they're still trying to come up with solutions. They didn't have dorms, and now they're trying to put in additional quotas, but they've had a really painful time this summer, these kids. At the same time, there were 2,892 academic staff at these closing foundations, as well as administrative staff. These academic staff are also marked, friends, and they can't find work anywhere right now, and we've made it clear to the very end that these academics, especially those who can't pass through a security investigation, can be punished, but others can be cleared and continue their academic studies in other universities. So, just these? No. Again, for the foundation schools, 1,596 schools were closed; primary school, secondary school, upper secondary school, and kindergarten were closed; in total 2,222 foundation, but 1,596 were schools. Dear Regents, 27,000 teachers worked in these schools as well. They teach here because they are unemployed, not because they prefer to work here, but because most of them can't, because they need to support their parents, but because they don't have a teaching license right now. And we continue to emphasize everywhere that they should actually go through a review process and be exonerated and licensed to teach and continue their duties. And, dear Regents, it's not over. There have also been suspensions and suspensions in academic staff and administrative staff at public universities. 7,078 academic and administrative staff were suspended and then 2,034 of these academic staff were discharged. So, the valued Regents, so many teachers, so many academics, were they all Wasn't they? If they're all members, what were you doing? What was the government doing, what was the Ministry doing? Why did he let you? If not, then why are the victims marked, why are their families in trouble, and why do their children wake up in the morning or in their nightly dreams, and my father doesn't wake up screaming? I don't know how history is going to write this, but this process -- before or after -- has never been managed right, well. Yes, when we arrived at elementary schools, 28,000 teachers were expelled, 20,000 teachers were suspended, and 28,000 teachers were said to be re-examined and involved in the process of elimination, but yet there is no complete information. We know that the academics are going to be in this group, and so are the people of 657. Dear Regents, 1,200,000 of our students have started their schools this year, but the classrooms are empty because the number of teachers is inadequate, especially because they lack teachers in the east and southeast classrooms, and because there are not too many warehouse teachers in small provinces, the norm staff in small cities, they've even entered with the lack of books. And then what happened? What happened next was that the contract teacher was brought up, but really, there was an app like this in the old days, and there were mistakes, wrongs, but even so, it went back to the chartered teaching system. It wasn't enough that an interview was conducted -- our friends were just trying to tell you -- strange questions were asked, and the Ministry of National Education failed both by deciding to appoint a contract teacher and by interviewing and asking questions. The data that comes to us comes not only from the unsupervised, but also from the appointed teachers, so there's really serious data that these questions are being asked, and we're amazed when we look at the questions. So, what else happened? We said that the closed foundation schools were not licensed by 27,000 teachers, but imagine that these teachers are now in training, they could have covered the gaps in education; of course, once they were properly separated. That's not enough, there are 5,575 teachers in 155 project schools during the time we've been here, dear friends. From these teachers, make a choice, choose, and you will be transferred to another place. They were told, "Send these teachers." They were instructed, and we watched in surprise. The press said that the decision had been withdrawn at some point, but that was never the case. It's really wrong for the teachers of these modern, secular, educational public institutions to be illegally transferred to other places like this, and we demand that this practice be withdrawn. And that's what he stayed with? No, that's not all. The people of the CIP were in what we call 33/A, and they were in charge of the research officer, not the staff, not the staff, but the staff. They were put into the temporary staff of 50/D, with an idea that they were in the form of 50/D. Dear Regents, the victims are so high that there are some who have been suspended, suspended, expelled, even from their co-existence in statements from academics. These people are subject to different practices; some are questioned, some are suspended, some are expelled, some are expelled without being suspended; some have a trade union, some have a bank account, some have nothing, others have no information as to why they were suspended, or why they were expelled. Many academics are victims in this way, believe me, in most universities, some labs are closed, and patients can't be tested because doctors there -- one or two -- academics there are now expelled. It's still a mystery when those suspended will be reinstated. Yes, Congressmans, but why was the process in the past mismanaged when it was so bad? We know very well that these universities, the closing foundation universities, are being opened up and supported, and I know from my own knowledge, and I know from other provinces. Let's face it, this process has been mismanaged before, and it's being mismanaged now, and it's not the right decomposition, it's not the right method, and the education system is getting really insane. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0070par0605	Thank you, Mr. Carabinieri. The People's Democratic Party will finally speak against the group's proposal, Karabuk MP Burhanettin Uysal. Here you go, Mr. Softy.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0071par0609	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would first like to wish us all the best luck of the second year of the 26th century. Hopefully, we'll make the law together in unity and in the interests of our country and of all mankind. Again, I wish the month of battle and the satire to bring peace and happiness to all mankind of the year. Of course, I have made a commitment by the People's Democratic Party to open a parliamentary investigation into 15 foundation universities, which have been shut down in the event of a coup attempt on July 15th. Dear lawmakers, we all lived together on July 15th. In our campus, I'd like to show you once more that our House has broken windows. We must never forget that if this ship goes down, we'll all go down. Here, in the solution, in the solution partnership, if we stick together, this ship will be on its way. It's impossible to get this country out of this chaos by forgetting July 15th and saying that the government is in violation of the law if the government is making certain decisions in order to ensure that the fire that was extinguished on July 15th is not rescinded again. I lived here the evening of July 15th. I'm one of the first lawmakers to come to the House, to light the House's lamps first. For the first time in my life, it was between life and death, and I can't forget that day.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0072par0614	Did the educators do the coup?
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0071par0615	Sir?
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0072par0616	Did the educators do the coup?
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0073par0617	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Gentle, would you please address the General Assembly?
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0074par0619	Of course, it wasn't the educators who did this, but there's been a construction in 40 years, and it has to be removed from the institutions of this state. If that happens in these institutions, who's to say that we won't have that disaster again today on the evening of July 15th? Yes, 15 foundation universities have been shut down, but the Institute of Higher Education has worked day and night to prevent any of our students from being victimized, and they've cooperated with us. And you followed him closely. Based on the power vested in them by the State of Emergency Law, they transferred closed-down universities to garantor state universities, but society did not adopt it because there was a public pressure on the relocation of them, claiming that our students entered the foundation universities had entered with lower scores. The institute of higher education reevaluated the pressure, considering the scores they received in the year the students were placed at the foundation universities, and our students were relocated to the foundation universities. In order for them not to be victimised, the decision they made again applied to the students of the foundation colleges, which were closed, by expanding the special student status too much, and by implementing the special student application that had previously been applied in the narrow sense. Our students began to receive their education in the city where their universities were closed or wherever they wanted to be in our country, and the problems were reduced to as minimal as possible. Of course, in this transitional process, there may be unsolicited circumstances. The moment we even try to move home, when we're new to moving in, of course, we'll have problems, but in the coming days, our expectations, our hopes, our hopes, are making us forget those problems. If we're going to develop policies through national education, higher education and negativity, then we're not going to develop politically, and we're not going to be a state of the world, and we're not going to be a world partner. Therefore, there is no way that staff working at the foundation universities can be taken to the state level. And we don't agree with the fact that those faculty members are being flagged. There is no way the government is going to mark its student and its citizen. Colleges need a lot of faculty. These professors know how normal citizens, normal faculty, get into college. And in the days to come, when a proclamation comes out for them, they too will be able to respond. My dear friends, is there any way that the government would be willing to mark 65,000 students and not put them on the government staff again? Is it possible that when you have a problem with your own child, you can kick him out of your home? Now, the state has suffered a great deal from this terrorist organization. What's the point when we plant a plant as individuals? It's growing and getting fruit from that sapling. Can we imagine what it would cost a general, a professor, to the state or to his family today? When the state is about to receive fruit, 40 years later, when a professor has committed a crime against the state, of course he has to remove it from his staff. Here, of course, there's no turning a blind eye to injustice. We all need to shout together. He's the one we're trying to lose... the one we lost... the officer, the student... they're the future of this country. The government invested in them. We want to buy from them. The AK PARTY government has no desire, no expectation, to exclude them, to mark them, to sever their relationship. I'd like to underline that as well. Just as you can't give up your children, I'd like to point out that our government can't sacrifice any of its members. Friends who won't write old colleges in the diplomas of our students who went to colleges other than colleges. But now, the diplomas aren't just a paper, they're given diploma stickers. This degree will, of course, be provided with the lessons, loans, where they received them, diplomas, and the validation of the European Union in all countries before this. My dear friends, I don't want God to put this country through the night of July 15th. And I say, God damn those who support it. After we get rid of this plague, once we get the derailed state order back on track, of course we'll do politics together. But, today, to find everything the AK PARTY government has to say wrong means to misdirect the future of this country. We're going to put this derailed train on the track together, and the day we start running it together, we're going to do our politics again, and you can take this train fast, and I can drive it fast. We're going to do politics together. But if the train isn't on the track, if you're defending your view of a, and I'm defending your view of B, it's not going to help make this train work. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0075par0629	Thank you, Mr. Easy. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0076par0631	The beloved Orator said: "Where there is injustice, there must be a united fight against these injustices. " However, I give you a concrete example: The Deputy Prime Minister is here, Professor Hakan Hakeri -- this is the professor of criminal law -- is present at the 50th time of the International Criminal Court's indictment, and he is on nine missions.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0075par0633	Okay, you can tell him later, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0076par0634	And there's no charges against you, there's no suspension, no indictment, and there's no charges against...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0075par0635	Mr. Tanal, you'll have to tell Mr. Niceman later.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0076par0636	Yes, these injustices...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0075par0637	That's not our agenda right now.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0076par0638	I'm giving you a concrete example, my dear friend.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0075par0639	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0076par0640	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit01spe0075par0641	I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger. I'd like to invite the members of the group to a meeting.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0075par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 2nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday (now) 04/10/2016, I would like to ask that the following proposal of our group be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The 26th term is 15:00-21 on Tuesdays until the end of the 2nd Year of Legislature. 00, Wednesdays and Thursdays, 2:00-21. Between 00 hours, On Tuesday, October 04, 2016 (now) and Tuesday (October 11, 2016), other audit issues were not discussed for an hour, until verbal questions were discussed and verbal questions were completed, It has been suggested that the membership of the Committee for Protection of Personal Data should be taken into the category of Wednesday's agenda Wednesday (October 5, 2016) and held in the same day's merger of the elections. In favour of the group's proposal, the Justice and Development Party will first speak in İstanbul MP Tülay Kaynar. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0077par0017	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers in favor of the Justice and Development Party group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. First of all, I wish you the good news of the hijri Christmas, the new hijri year, that it brings peace and peace to our country, to our nation, and to the world of Islam, as well as to all mankind. Dear lawmakers, the Justice and Development Party group proposal includes our work agenda and our working hours. In this regard, I will issue headlines on the working hours of the General Assembly until the end of the 26th Year of the Second Legislature, July 1, 2017. First, Tuesdays are scheduled to work between 3:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m., Wednesdays and Thursdays -- between 2:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. Again, on Tuesday (October 11th) -- and next Tuesday (October) -- it is expected to discuss verbal questions about audit issues. As of today, hopefully, we'll be able to live with verbal questions, as well as the task of auditing them. Finally, on Wednesday (October 5th), the membership of the Personal Data Protection Board will be held. Again, we will have decided that the elections will be held in the same day's unification by taking part in the agenda. Mr. President, I've given you the headlines on our work agenda and working hours in the Justice and Development Party group proposal. I wish him well. And the new year of law shall be in peace, and with precious laws shall be in the name of our nation, and for our people, and for our country a good law, and the 26th term, that we may dwell in, and that I may pay my respects to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0078par0026	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. Diyarbakır MP İdris Balaken will speak first against the Justice and Development Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0079par0030	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I wish that the second year of the 26th term of the Second Legislature would lead to good deeds, contribute to the peace of our country, democracy, the expansion of freedoms. Of course, when we look at the general practice of the House, I'd like to stress that we don't have much hope that our wishes will come to life. Now, as much as the AKP group's proposal has offered a proposal to regulate parliament's working hours, we are dealing with Parliamentary practice, which has been broken down step-by-step since July 15th, with its will being ignored, and its will being treated as a ward. For one thing, we can't discuss the agenda of the House or the hours of the House or the working schedule properly, until we face it. We, in particular, have issued all our warnings during the time of this Parliament's will being nullified, with a declaration of state of emergency and a decree under the rule of law. We have stated that this would be an open coup, that a will other than Parliament does not have the authority to constantly impose a number of legal regulations on Parliament, but we have not yet witnessed a single disturbance the ruling party has heard about it, which has corrected a single issue. Look, this Parliament nullified the coup on July 15th with the common will of four political parties, and the entire world was publicly exposed that even if the bombing of this Parliament was carried out, the will of 79 million would not be handed over. The declaration, which he signed under four parties shortly after the coup, was, in fact, carrying very important messages that were forward. Unfortunately, Presidents Erdogan and the AKP Group did not trust a parliament that had failed the coup, heeded no warning that the coup must be fought through this Parliament. At that time, we made it clear that we would offer support in certain principled concepts, considering any legal arrangement you would bring here in combating the coup, but instead of running this process with the will of parliament, which you political parties have given you, you have unfortunately signed an application that is based on the will of one person, and also nullifies the will of this Assembly. So we have a very serious problem here. Following the coup debates immediately, a coup commission was established in this parliament, which, by the joint will of the four political parties, was said to be effective immediately. Unfortunately, the ruling party prevented the coup commission from working in a manner that would have failed to give members first and then the House went on vacation -- where there were so many funerals every day with such enormous problems in this country -- when there were dozens of funerals every day, when there were more than 79 million people who could not breathe, and we couldn't understand it -- to coincide with the period of the coup commission. Imagine, the country has a July 15 coup on its agenda, a commission has been set up in parliament, but this commission hasn't signed a single study, and there hasn't been a single process of the political foot of the coup since then. So at some point in his life, there are all kinds of applications for people who study, I don't know, who stay in their homes, who drink tea in Bank Asia, who have nothing to do with the congregation -- a full liquidation operation against Kurds, Alevi, the left, the socialist, the opposition communities, and the notion of genocide of social life, but there's not a single study of the political foot of the coup, there's not a single investigation process. Terminate the tea drinker in Asia, arrest him, send him to prison, but do not conduct a single process concerning the minister or lawmakers with the ByLock system. What kind of insincereness is that? Do you have the right to disrepute this House, this Parliament, this way? Look, the arrangement for trustees of the joint will of the four political parties was lifted from the bag of legislation just before this House took a vacation. So, behind that door, this Parliament did not testify to an application that disregarded the promises made so far. However, despite the will you've made, an arrangement for the trustee was brought in as a decree of the law, and none of you made a sound word. There's no respect for our will, for the promises we've made. You didn't say that. What kind of understanding is that? If the will of the four political parties of this House is to be nullified by a decision made by one person, then what are we to discuss here? ▪ Does this practice apply to the nation without condition? I think it's time for us to change this article, and the sovereignty is in one person, unconditionally. Let's change it at city halls. If you are going to replace the mayor of 80 per cent of the vote, you will replace him with an officer. Look, every day this country is struggling with its political crisis, and it's about to enter a major regional crisis with military intervention towards Syria. The economic crisis has already reached a level that a primary school student can easily understand, listening to the Prime Minister's statements today, but there's not a single solution. The House opens with a declaration of war. He's signing a statement that will further increase the regional crisis. The state of emergency is decided at a meeting with the chiefs. The will of parliament is not even needed to appeal to the views of political parties. Whereas here, when the State of Emergency is announced, the Prime Minister says that we will step out of the box and bring the State of Emergency against ourselves, against the state, and as much as possible, we will remove this practice before three months. What's the result? What do you got? What did the State of Emergency reveal about the fight against the coup? You know, I've already raised a question about the political dimension of the coup, but nothing has been done during this process about hundreds of questions that are looking for the answer. But we know that the problem is not fighting the coup; it's the fact that a regime change that he can't perform because he can't get the legal and constitutional authority from the public can't actually implement it with the State of Emergency; it's very clear to impose the one man's regime on this country. There is no separation of forces, he intervenes in the government whenever he wants, Parliament is disabled, the judiciary is buttoning his buttons not 100 meters away, so what are we going to discuss in Turkey anymore? I mean, we need to deal with all of these processes seriously. Look, at this time today, the screens of a lot of television stations, a press-released organization have been blacked out, the doors sealed. İMC TV, Voice of Life, TV 10, Zarok TV, Jian TV, Azadi TV have been sealed by you today, as the July 15 coupkers have done to CNN, and TRT. It's the same understanding, the same understanding. Özgür Radyo's people were taken into custody by breaking down the doors. On the night of the coup, you broke down CNN's doors, and you put the people in their custody by breaking down Free Radio's door, and there's no difference between that. The time is limited, but the position of the IMC (IMC), the Voice of Life, TV 10, of all these broadcasters has been clear so far. So what you're doing has nothing to do with the fight against the coup. Look -- I wish I had a lot of time, a lot of talking -- for the first time, you've caused the shame of shutting down a Kurdish cartoon television station. Papa Smurf was declared a coupger because he spoke Kurdish or because he was spoken. He was declared a separatist. Look, the whole world is going to discuss this picture. Papa Smurf is a separatist when he speaks Kurdish, Smurfette has been declared a terrorist by you. Here you criminized SpongeBob, and declared him a separatist. Yeah, what kind of understanding is that? What kind of insincerity is that, and what kind of insincereness is that? Therefore, your process has nothing to do with the fight against the coup. Before this working calendar, I say one more agenda should be before all of us once again to restore the will of the failed Parliament and ensure the functionality and reputation of this Parliament. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0080par0042	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0081par0043	Mr. President, may I make a brief statement from my position?
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0080par0044	Mr. Botanci, please, just a minute...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0081par0047	Thank you. Mr. Baluken has been critical. If Turkey had a single man's regime, all parties and this nation would not have resisted the July 15 coupgers; I'd like to underline that once. Second: IF AK PARTY had been in power for 14 years, there would have been examples like this in the past, as if it were a fantasy to manage in an extraordinary way. The state of emergency is only for the period after July 15th during these four years. Thirdly, Mr. President, Government, Parliament, these are all democratic institutions, all in accordance with the law, which are by the will of the nation, they do their work within the framework of the law. We're in a democratic and free country with legal means open against these actions, and Congress is working. Of course, anyone can say their criticism, both the government and the President will do their own thing, and you have to see it in this frame. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0082par0052	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0083par0053	Mr. President, I have a request for my position as well.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0082par0054	Mr. Baluken, let's hear it. And you asked for a minute of your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0083par0057	Thank you. Mr. President, after Mr. Bostanci's evaluations, at least I have to say a few things that will be the answer on behalf of the People's Democratic Party. When we opposed the coup, we took no stand against a person or a political party. While we opposed the coup, we put forward a political stance that would protect this country's democracy, the state of law, social peace. If it were the same attempt today, we would never hesitate or hesitate to show the same political stance as the principled attitude we're talking about. However, the practices carried out under the name "fighting the coup" have turned into a major pressure to purge and digest all opposition social areas. So, while these applications are in place, this Parliament is also involuntary, involuntary... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In a way, we find it unacceptable for him to just fall into the audience position. The warnings we have issued are warnings that, as we have done so far, all of Turkey's problems have been addressed as well as its problems since July 15th, in order to be the address for them and to restore that will. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0084par0063	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0085par0064	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0084par0065	Mr. Special, let's hear it for a minute.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0085par0067	First of all, let me express my sensitivity to the same subject. Criticizing the increasingly authoritarianisation of the regime in Turkey and evolving into one man's administration... a merger that will nullify these criticisms with our stance on July 15th is unthinkable. On July 15th, we held on to Parliament, the parliamentary system, the will of the people, and we did not approve of anyone doing their duty, neither to himself nor to anyone else. You have to be clear about that. And, Mr. President, I asked for the transcripts to see if I misheard them. In your speech, when I've attended a very important part of it, you say at first: "This people who are doing the national democratic revolution on July 15th, 16th..." you started the talk. Now, the definition of the national democratic people's revolution was introduced by the Turkish Workers' Party in 1965. Mehmet Ali Aybar and his team said it was the leading and integral part of the socialist revolution. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0086par0071	Here you go. I hear you, you tell me.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0085par0073	Mihri Belli's team argues that the national democratic revolution would be carried out by students and young officers in the military, followed by a more bloodless process of the proletarian revolution. This is the first time we've heard of the concept of a national democratic people's revolution in the minutes of this House from that day on. Do you agree with this conceptual approach, the concept of a national democratic people revolution in these past reports, and do you argue that? And it also has to be clear that there was an attempt that night, and we all pushed that attempt with the people together, but if you call it a revolution and a national democratic people revolution, it would be a very exciting discussion.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0086par0074	That's what I call the night of July 15th, 16th. I've lived the dates you're talking about for my age. And I think I know the theory and the arguments of that time. What I said today is not meant in the same sentence, meaning that day. What I'm saying is that the national democratic people revolution is national and domestic. Thank you. In favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, the Manisa MP Erkan Akçay will speak last. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0087par0082	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have been promised a group proposal from the Justice and Development Party, and I salute you all. Today we began study of the Second Year of Law in the 26th century. First of all, I wish our country, our nation, the Great National Assembly of Turkey, to have the best of luck in the new year of legislation, and our work at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is of great importance to our country's future. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has come to this day from what conditions, and we always need a refresher memory. I believe that after July 15th, this need has increased. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is the only institution to overcome Turkey's good fortune with spirit and dignity during the years of the national struggle, and it has been the only one to overcome Turkey's good fortune, and it has been the only one to bring the land out of the dark, from the well-oiled gas lamps, and while the hair stoves are barely heated, it is also protected from the freezing cold of captivity. The wooden rows brought in from the schools have been squeezed and worked with limited means. They didn't say there's no enemy, no shortage, no money, but there's nothing we can do about it. The situation has sometimes become so dire that there is no paper to write the reports and paper from the grocery stores in Ankara has been collected to write a report in parliament, and Greek cannons are being heard from Poletlı. From that day to July 15th, when we think of seven bombs and several bullets thrown at the Turkish Parliament's settlement, building and General Assembly, we have to do a very good job of accounting for that. Terror attacks, unfortunately, continue to rise on our country's busy agenda. Anbean, these attacks continue hour by hour, and there are also significant developments in Syria that concern our country. Although ignored and not discussed as item one of the agenda, economic problems are actually increasing. While social tensions and polarizations seem to be significantly reduced in the period after July 15th, as the temperature of the event grows, unfortunately, we regret to see that these social tensions and attitudes and behaviors that will increase polarization continue. Here we all have enormous tasks to live and live up to the common sense, negotiation and consensus culture our country needs, and in the coming days, one of the most important tasks for normalisation of politics is to fall into the government, but important tasks fall to the Turkish Grand National Assembly as well. In this framework, negotiations and dialogue channels should be kept wide open, avoiding camping and polarization. New verbs should be avoided from legislative activities that will allow personal and arbitrary practices. We must take steps to eliminate the anxiety and unrest of our nation. Our sensitivity, our country, our nation, our brotherhood and our sovereignty must be built on it. Dear lawmakers, on the evening of July 15th, democracy and law have been attacked with a very despicable attack and will leave deep marks in our nation. We've had the events we've been discussing, remembering, and learning for the next many years. The Republic of Turkey has experienced one of the most dangerous processes since July 15th, and the unity of our country has been targeted at integrity. Terrorists have targeted the entire Turkish nation, the national will and all of the republic's institutions. With this coup attempt, the nation's unity and brotherhood have been targeted and our country has been driven into chaos and civil conflict. Therefore, July 15th is a generation. No one can act like the 15th of July didn't happen. July 15th and the Yenikapi are binding. On the evening of July 15th, we claimed democracy and national will. By keeping the House open, one of the biggest blows to the coupgers has been struck. The sense of unity and unity under that responsibility, the culture of political negotiations and reconciliation has been prominent, and this culture was crowned by the Yenikapi rally on August 7th. The National Movement Party is at the center of its Yenikapı spirit. However, it is largely up to those who rule the state, the ruling owners, and other political members who do not continue to carry out the Yenikapi spirit and the process to Yenikapi. Of course, the most important element here is that when you say the new door, it refers to the unity, integrity, unity of the country, and the unity of its opposition to all dangers. We should also consider this an attitude to uphold democracy and law together. However, this unification mission falls primarily to the President, the government, state institutions, political parties and other democratic institutions and media. Our nation needs a total hug. There must be a careful avoidance of words and actions that cause separatism, camping and tension. The spirit of defeat does not mean to pledge allegiance to the President and to power, and the opposition parties who joined Yenikapi are never open to power. This is an important opportunity for democratic institutions and processes to work much better. This opportunity must not be wasted on unnecessary arguments. Especially in recent days, on the eve of the opening of the House, the unnecessary debates of Abdulhamit and Lausanne must not be repeated, and they do not conform, unfortunately, to the spirit of Yenikapi. With these thoughts, I wish you all the best luck of the new year of life again.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0088par0091	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. The Justice and Development Party will finally speak against the group's proposal, Mr. Free Private. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0089par0095	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We begin the second year of the 26th century. We hope that our activities here will benefit the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the workers, the peasants, the workers, the unemployed, the students, the teachers, the teachers, the teachers, the public, and a whole set of legislature activities for the people. As the Republican People's Party Group, we wish success to all groups in Parliament and to the valued workers of Parliament. It's the spirit of a Yenikapi. It's been said on the stand today, and it looks like it's going to be a lot of words from now on. The matter you call the spirit of the new door is not a day when the opposition party goes to the ruling party and signs on a white paper and says, "You fill it in." However, if the ruling party had held a single rally in Yenikapi, it could not be mentioned today's Yenikapi spirit. The participation of opposition parties has made it meaningful and has sparked a discussion of the spirit of a Beatdown. The defeated spirit is incomplete in the sense that it does not represent all political parties in parliament, but it can be discussed in Parliament on July 15th, July 16th, when it is under those bombs, at a point where a parliamentary system, a parliament that has all of its own, democracy, is met by a counterpartisan approach. We have not given a blank paper to anyone, nor have we signed it, nor will we support you, no matter what you do. On the contrary, we had a 12-point manifest there, where our president reads it, says what he expects from Yenikapi, and then from Turkey; no one objects, even positive references have been given; but come see now, if there is a Yenikapi spirit, what does the People's Party understand from him, but what does someone do and who actually does this? We said, "Let's not bring politics into the office, barracks, courts, when from that day on -- not only should we understand mosques -- but not only should we understand mosques -- but we need to understand -- the discussions that he had started, like the spokesman of a party, the warnings that he had demanded, the warnings that he had demanded, the assurances of the judge in the courthouse, that the prosecutors would not make free decisions, and that the Apollet of the barracks would be here -- but that night, even those closest to him who were there, until that moment of the moment, could not be able to get the promotion of their own will, and how those who made the decisions he demanded, and how those who made the new decisions in the court, and how they were all of those who had been able to make their own statements. On that day, we said, "Let's improve the culture of consensus in politics, "let's make the common mind prevail." There's a debate today, four parties will set up a commission in the ordinances. Yesterday, when he started going through the subtitles, journalists, Parliamentary reporters called, asked, "Free Bey, you must have made contact." I said, in fashion, I learned from my brother-in-law that there would be a commission like this. You say common sense, you say fighting together; you enter the Council of Ministers, you come out, four parties form joint commissions, we read it in subtitles, you don't discuss it with us. He's still looking for Parliament reporters. He's not getting any calls. We've had tea inside, and no one's saying anything inside. Only a commission can be established. What will be established, what law will be established, what power will he take from the Constitution, what authority will he exercise, and if you do not establish the authority that you describe, why are you proposing this? So, when it comes to solving the problem, fixing the victims, not playing with the common mind, but playing with the bleachers, it's enough for you to get past that subtitle, and it doesn't matter. Contact on that subject, contact on that subject, offer on that offer; we're waiting. But first of all, we're hearing the fact that you're not running the current commissions, that you're moving the coup commission for two and a half months, that the Parliament Human Rights Commission won't move for a whole summer, that the Prison Subcommittee claims that we're going, but we're not going. We're also offering their statements to the public's appreciation. We'd like to point out that we're condemning these as well. Let's not avoid self-criticism in politics, let's analyze the past well, prevent history from repeating itself. Yes, one congregation is being dissolved using all legal and illegal means. By God, not two months, not two years, we've been saying that for 20 years, these guys are going from the state's veins to the brain. Don't give them what they want, we call them. A congregation is now being dissolved. And instead? With other congregations... the coalition of congregations has only changed its balance. There is a new division war, and certain ministries, certain tasks, are given to new congregations. So, the condition that the manifesto doesn't repeat past mistakes is completely abandoned by the ruling party. We're talking about liakati. Our lawmakers have just expressed, KPSS, who is the uncle of the man who has no uncle, if you do not steal the questions, who is nobody, who is the MP who does not know the MP, KPSS. But you've brought this interview, how do you see the plane situation? How do you feel when you say "Reis"? You're trying to bring a system that's pure AKP and certainly not opposition, not integrity. We're trying to get rid of the coup law, and the new coup is pushing his own law. We say, let's keep the founding values of the Republic, until two months ago, those who have owned Lausanne before the coup return to the founders of the republic after the coup, and, contrary to what they have said to that day, they insult the Inönu, Ataturk. In no advanced democracy, founding fathers and current executives don't deal with friends. The theories of De Gaulle are discussed and opposed in the French assembly, but no one will stand on that stand and insult De Gaulle. The founding fathers, the founders of the United States, will not be insulted by the current politicians. That's why it needs to be given up fast. We say to strengthen the parliamentary system, to declare a state of emergency in Yenikapı, as if some of this Parliament had resisted the coup, as if they had been clapping for the coup, as if you were taking over Parliament's legislative authority; as if the opposition wing of parliament had been infected by coups. But using force alone, the infection caused by power poisoning, it's costing this country a lot, but it's eating away at your power, and you all need to know that. The president said the media should be free. You closed 23 channels just the other day. Shut down any channels that support this structure. But how is it that the children's broadcasters, the singing channels, the channels that don't defend anything but social democracy... you're talking about a place where there's no thornless rose garden for yourself, no opposition, one voice? We wanted to maintain the independence and neutrality of the judiciary, and we suggested the mini-constitutional package at the top of the leaders. You know what we didn't agree on, guys, the ruling party group? When the HSYK was elected, the first two-round qualified majority, two-thirds, yours said: "The only majority in the third round." The entire judge, the ruling party group, was going to choose the entire judge, the ruling party group, most of the time. We can't agree that you're against it. On September 12, 2010 -- the F16, the one who bombed the assembly, was lifted up with Fetullah Hoxha, and the bombs -- when the judges operated and carried out the army -- we say, "Let's correct it, it's still not the only majority, let's choose it." The education system wasn't going to be one type, you're going to be impounding all the schools. One person doesn't object. We thought we'd strengthen secularism, guarantee the freedom of religion and conscience. Friends, 60 cops lost their lives. Instead of clearing the way for the police's freedom to organize and making a gesture, you're bringing the freedom to cover up for the police. Bring it in, it's not a big deal, but it's about the union of the men who put their lives on the line. You don't say yes, you say no, you say no, and you make it a matter of covering it up. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Then there's the spirit of the new door, the spirit of the new door, the spirit of the new door, the spirit of the defeated spirit, the ruling party that opposes it. We'll keep reminding you of that, folks, as we look into your eyes. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0090par0115	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0091par0116	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0090par0117	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0091par0118	We certainly don't understand how everyone speaks the same words from his defeated soul. The ruling-migration, of course, will act under its own political position, but we understand the partnerships of Turkey. On the other hand, Mr. Free Bey's statements suggest that there are a number of arbitrary questions. I'm saying that whatever physical evidence is available, I'll follow it with him. I find it very grave that all interviews are done like this or that there are such examples. It's my knowledge and opinion that it's not. I'll follow whatever bet they've got. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0092par0121	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0093par0122	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0092par0123	Mr. Baluken, let's hear it.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0093par0124	I have a request for a statement according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0092par0125	Here you go. Your time is one minute.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0093par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. In his private speech, Mr. President, he made an important point. Yesterday, Deputy Justice and Development Party (AKP) Group Chair Mr. Elitas had press releases. According to these statements, a commission would be set up to review, oversee, and partner in all decisions in accordance with the joint participation of the four political parties, he said such an issue is on the agenda. Let us stress this: There is not a single information that the ruling party has passed on to HDP at this time, and there is not a single request for an interview. While the calls we've made earlier on this subject are in the middle, and at the meeting we just did, there's nothing that the group's vice presidents have explained. The day we decided to extend this extraordinary version of the announcement and the day the TV and radio institutions, whose names we've been counting since now, were sealed at the door, the day the screens were blacked out... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0094par0133	I'll give you one more minute, please complete.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0093par0134	...we find it very important to have the day of the blackout of the screens of the press-printing institutions, when their doors are sealed. It's the typical perception management of the AKP (AKP), which creates expectations in the society and presents a political stance that aims to extinguish democratic responses. Obviously, such an issue was raised yesterday to reduce the responses to the extension of the State of Emergency and the coup attack on media-report institutions. We see that from the inside, there is a tremendous low-wave response to these KHKs that have created millions of victims, and it can also turn into a tsunami. In the same way, in the very near period of time, the delegations, especially the Council of Europe, will come here, and Turkey will come to Turkey. We believe that he has not gone beyond a claim to extinguish these pressures. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0095par0137	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0096par0138	Mr. President, I have a request for my position, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0095par0139	I'll put it to a vote, and I'll give you my word. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Special. Just a minute from your position...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0097par0148	I won't say anything too long, Mr. President. Mr. Group Vice President says that if such a thing is happening in the interviews, it's like this: The President of the Justice and Development Party said that during a meeting with Mr. President, right after the coup, I hadn't been on the TRT for six years. For example, the President said that I didn't know why this was happening, and that the main opposition party hadn't come to TRT for six years, and that the President didn't know about it, no matter how much the President didn't know about it, as the Justice and Development Party's deputy, once in the interviews, said, said that the reason why it was being done, even as a religious question, even as a religiousist, is far from believable. But, of course, to his proposal, yes, I'm not going to pass on any complaints about any interviews that have reached me, I'm going to stack them in front of him, in front of him, and then he's going to disappear behind him. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0098par0151	Mr. Special, Mr. Bostanci, I've never witnessed anything like this in good faith, so if there is such a thing, bring it with documents. It's a terrible situation, we'll follow it together. He said. Just in case we have to believe the statement, let me give you a little reminder. Mr. Bostanci, will you speak? Here, just a minute.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0099par0155	Thank you very much. There's no need to speculate too much about it. Whatever our party is, I think we all have a common opinion that the people who were interviewed should be taken objectively, strictly. Joyful questions not only bother CHP people, but also the AK PARTY people. Therefore, we would never accept questions like this, subjective, in his mind, with the intention of seeking some kind of political advocacy. I say, beyond speculation, that in interviews, whatever interview, whoever was asked this kind of question, let's follow it. I know that's not how interviews are done, and that's what I've been getting, but when it comes to other information, we all owe it to him to be his followers, that's what I'm saying. There's no need to speculate on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0100par0159	Thank you. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/131) I demand and demand that my proposal for amendments to the main Press Law be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda under Article 37, under the Constitution of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal will speak as the bidder. Your time is five minutes. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Tanal, you're very active today between where you're sitting and where you're sitting.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0101par0172	Dear President, we're always active. We'd like to do community service if you could.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0100par0173	No, no, it's not like that. You take every opportunity to the bench; you take your word, you give it according to 37, you ask questions from your place, you start fast.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0101par0174	But you know I've succeeded in my life as a lawyer, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0100par0175	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0101par0176	You're the witness.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0100par0177	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0101par0179	My dear President, my dear fellow congressmen, I salute you with respect and respect. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, the law proposal that we want to bring today is that there are four forces for democracy, freedom, rule of law -- what we call it -- legislation, execution, justice, and the 4th force are essential for freedom of the press. One: An investigation will be subject to the Ministry of Justice's permission to be investigated for the crimes they have committed under the freedom of the press and for the crimes they have committed for their duties. At the same time, the homes of media agencies, headquarters, branches and media members can only be searched by the court's decision and by the representative of the vocational room in which they are in charge of the republic's prosecutor's office. So the press rooms can't be searched without professional representatives and at the same time without a court order, and you need the Minister of Justice's permission to investigate this matter. We're going a little further. In connection with their duties, you know, as long as it's required under Article 58 of the Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Justice, if it's needed to prosecute the President for contempt, we're here to bring in the conditions of permission for the press, which we're trying to say is a need for public service, without hesitation, without intimidation, without intimidation, without intimidation, without fear, without fear, without fear, without fear, without fear, without warning, but especially today on the night of the coup attempt, we've come to realize how useful the press is doing a very useful job. So, I think it's best to give this opportunity to the press. This isn't a party. For the sake of the country, for the good of the country, for the full and unimpeachable sake of public service, because the press is also in power today -- hopefully the Republican People's Party will be in power -- it needs to have a guarantee that there's no effort for a political party at all times, because if the authorities have their primary purpose, if they've made mistakes, if they've been wronged, they've been hit in the face again, by the press. In order to keep the press from writing the truth like this, the press must write freely. Now, we're looking, yes, there's a lot of press today in prison on the pretext of extraordinary circumstances, many journalists in custody and many journalists in prison. For example, while our dear friends were just bringing it up, Nazlı Ilıcak was a member of the press, and in terms of freedom, he was a man who was a symbol here for the freedom of the turban. What happened to Nazlı Ilıcaka? He's in prison. What is Nazlı Ilıcak? He's a member of the press. At the same time, Aslı Erdogan, what did he do? Only the newspaper's director, dear friends. Is the director there, in terms of criminal responsibility? And he's not a director, and I'm sorry, he's a consultant. The counselor has no criminal responsibility, dear friends. When we went to Erdogan, Aslı Erdoğan had not given him water for 24 hours, and the prison administration admitted it. Our President of the Human Rights Subcommittee says we don't go to whatever happens to anyone at the prison. Dear Metiner, Aslı Erdoğan was not given 24 hours of water. Water is a right to live. As terrorism is a crime of humanity to anyone, such persecution and torture is a crime of humanity.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0102par0188	I'm not going to answer you today, Mahmut Tanal. I'm not in the mood today.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0101par0189	The bond that binds us is the honor of humanity, peace, justice, rule of law. If a country is to be destroyed, it will be destroyed for injustice, and if order is to be destroyed, it will be destroyed for injustice. We need justice to strengthen this order in the country. To support all of you... really, for the press, this law is essential. Freedom is just as important to the press as it is to the fish. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0103par0193	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. On behalf of an MP, İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu will speak. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0104par0197	I'm sorry. I thank Mr. Sezgin, he gave this opportunity, and thanks to him, he came to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0105par0199	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I wish the Second Year of Legislature in the 26th century to the best of luck. I hope this period, Parliament will present a good work for Turkey's peace, for its justice, unlike the past. Dear friends, yes, we're talking about freedom of the press, we're talking about a law on freedom of the press. Just today, in terms of freedom of the press, Turkey's history was blackened, and radio and televisions were unfortunately sealed; İMC, Hayat TV, TV 10, Zarok TV was sealed. Those sealed photos will be a black mark in the history of the Justice and Development Party. Dear friends, Zarok TV -- no political content, no political content -- was broadcasting only in Kurdish for children, no content production. Here, it's all cartoons, those, all of them. But it's closed. There's no reason. And there's no reason why. There's only one reason it's being broadcast in Kurdish. I thought you said Kurdish was free, Kurdish wasn't banned. Can a single member of your community at least give a reasonable reason at the point of the closure of Zarok TV? There can only be one reason: subliminal message. He must have been sending a message to his Kurdish children, which was turned off. And that was your invention. Dear friends, look, if it wasn't for the July 15 coup attempt, would you have declared a state of emergency? Did you have such an agenda? But July 15th was a coup attempt, and you declared the State of Emergency, and we opposed it. Who did you declare against? Against the people who attempted the coup, against the institutions. So, what do you do now? You're targeting directly opposed institutions, broadcasters, individuals. So, where's the democracy in that? Where's the fight against a coup attempt? Can you name one? One person, give me an example. You shut down the unions, you shut down the broadcasters, you shut down the teachers, you take over the property. Well, that's what would have happened if it had been a coup. How is this any different than a coup? Look, what the state of emergency means, as you call it, is that last semester, your propaganda poster: the State of Emergency has been lifted. The pressures are over. I mean, you admit that the State of Emergency is a regime of oppression, with this poster, you. I live freely in the village. You are also expressing that the State of Emergency is also a threat to freedom. Well, now, it won't even last three months. You'll extend the extraordinary state you call it three months, maybe twelve months, maybe even the infrastructure of the presidential regime. So, where's democracy in this, where's the fight against the coup, where's someone? I thought you declared the coup against the government. 14,000 teachers were only expelled in the area because they were members of you, only because one day they were on strike at the union's call. The State Officers' Act is a 30-to-1 pay fine. From December 29th to today, there are no investigations; no criminal investigations, no administrative investigations. But if it is a crime, why didn't you investigate it from then until September, when after the coup, you counted it as a favor from God and took it as a trophy, and went about it in a way that was unlawful and unfair? There's no explanation for that. It has nothing to do with democracy, freedom; it has nothing to do with democracy; it has nothing to do with democracy, the coup; it has nothing to do with the expulsion of teachers; it has nothing to do with democracy, freedom, justice, justice; it has nothing to do with mothers, children in breast-feeding age; it has nothing to do with freedom, justice, conscience; it has nothing to do with education. Thus, this history of yours, which began in an extraordinary fashion, will be used as a black mark on the recent history of Turkey's human rights record. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0106par0206	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We're moving on to the promised questions of the agenda. Members of parliament, the reading of the motions will not be carried out to use the time set for the question-answer process more efficiently. The motions are printed in a full text journal. In addition, the list containing the summary information of the foretold question proposals to be answered has been distributed to groups. I would like to call to the stand the Minister of Culture and Tourism, Mr. Nabi Avcı, to respond to verbal question motions. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is sixty minutes.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0107par0246	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with the hope that our new year of legislation will be a blessing. First, there's a question for the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, which I'm going to go to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism after answering on behalf of our Labour and Social Security Minister. Mr. Ali Ercoshkun (6/13) has submitted the main oral question motion to the Minister of Labour and Social Security. The answer to that motion: To answer as many questions as possible, the question will already be understood from the answers, but since this is the only question of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, let me read it here as an exception, and in my answers to the Ministry of Culture, the answers will already be understood from themselves. The 1st question asked to the Minister of Labor and Social Security (6/13) is: from 2002 (2002) to today, how much has the level of increase in civil servants' salaries, particularly teachers, specialists, lawyers, police? The lowest level of increase in the salary of the highest officer in this scope is........ he asks about it. Two: Similarly, how much has the family allowance increased, and who are benefiting from this allowance? I've got a painting, I'll read it as fast as I can: Some titles include a salary increase between 2002-2016: Teacher, a teacher at 8/1, 535 liras in the range of 2002 in the 1st degree, and $2.996 lira in July 2016. The teacher is 3,538 liras in 2016. The police officer is 816 liras in December 2002 and 4.253 liras in July 2016. The engineer is 739 liras in the range of 2002 and 4,460 liras in July 2016. The officer is 406 liras in the range of 2002 and 2.683 liras in July 2016. The officer is £500 in the range of 2002, and $3,070 in July 2016. Technician, one of ten, $443 lira 2002, $2.802 in July 2016. ===Early life==================================================================================================================================================================================================================================, =========================, ========================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================== TÜFE 2002-2016 is 220.3; period growth rates vary from 459 per cent to 421 (nominal) -- I don't read them individually -- and in reality there appears to be improvements in different levels from 74 per cent to 97 per cent, higher rates in lower wages. This calculation includes family assistance as a wife, plus two children, and salaries that are valid for the second period of the year each year. The indicators of income groups are the other thing. The lowest officer's salary, including family aid, was $392 in December 2002, and $2.475 in July 2016. Again, the highest officer's salary, including family aid, was $4,427 in December 2002, and $16,044 in July 2016. Nominal increase, 531 per cent on the minimum officer's salary; 262% on the highest officer's salary. The real increase was 97.1 per cent in the lowest officer's salary; 13.1 per cent in the highest officer's salary -- 13.1 per cent in the highest official's salary -- while the lowest officer's salary increased by 97.1%. The minimum civil servant salary, except for family aid, is $366 in December 2002, and $2.144 in July 2016. The highest officer's salary, except for family assistance, is $4,401 in December 2002, and $15,713 in July 2016. Here the real increase is 83 per cent on the lowest official salary; 11.5 per cent on the highest officer's salary; TÜFE is 220.3 per cent at this time. The increase in family allowance -- I'll read the income dates first, then I'll say the amount -- is 22 million 855 thousand on July 1, 2003, 24 million on January 15, 2003, 34 million 300,000 on January 15, 2003, 42 million 875 thousand on July 1, 2004, 45 million on January 1, 2004; so I can distribute the list later on July 1, 2016. This is the answer to the question asked to our Ministry of Labor and Social Security. There are many questions asked to our Ministry of Culture and Tourism. I'll try to answer them as much as I can. I'm not going to read the questions here either, but I'm going to read one at first, and the rest will be understood by the answers. Nüğde MP Mr. Ömer Fethi Gürer (6/109) in the main oral question motion... now, after that, all questions concerning Niğde are actually of the same MP. I won't read a single question for him. What is the number of private theaters supported in our country for the survival and development of theatre? The answer is: From 2005-2016, 1,675 private theaters were supported by our Ministry. Question: What is the main criteria for supporting theatres? Is the number of games, number of spectators, content and quality of the game a factor in supporting? The answer is: A decision by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, which projects will be helped by what projects, and what amount of assistance will be made, by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, by the Commission of Local Governments, Associations, Foundations, and Special Theatres. The following measures are taken into consideration in the commission of the assistance demands, as stated in Article 9 of the following regulation: The project's ability to liven, art and tourism values, to promote, promote, promote, promote, support, competency and importance, the project's contribution to sociocultural development, if there is a degree of success in implementing projects and activities earlier, its development of theatre art, its development of modern, universal dimensions, its incentive to promote new artistic trends, its assessment of the classics, its contribution to Turkish and world culture, its emphasis on Turkish playwriters, its participation in domestic tours, and its ability to promote theatres to sell the country, its new plays, its production of our theatre, the number of plays, the way it has been selected, and the way it has set up for the theatre and the theatre, and the way it has set in order for the theatre and the theatre, and the way in which it has been established and the theatre. In addition, projects that will be implemented in less developed areas than others in socioeconomic terms are priority. Answering the main oral question motion (6/128): There is no study carried out by our Ministry for reducing the VAT rate applied in various services of travel agencies. Answering the main oral question motion (6/134): The area of the Sazak Bay (Sazak Bay) within the borders of the coast national park is registered as the first and second-degree natural site of the Antalya Council for the Protection of Culture and Natural Beings, dated 31/1/96 and 2831. Again, the ancient construction remains found in the southwestern area of Antalya Culture and Nature Preservation Council, dated 13/6/2011 and 5207 were registered as a first degree archaeological site. There is no later border or status change on the archaeological site border. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, published in 28028 daily, dated 17/8/2011, has been transferred to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism under the Law Act on Organizations and Missions of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, which has entered into force. There is no rental, allocation and so on in our ministry's study of Sazak Bay (Sazak Bay) on the first-degree archaeological site limits. The question has been asked by the Directorate of Culture and Tourism of Antalya Governorate to investigate the presence of armed persons in the area mentioned in the area and to inform our Ministry of the destruction of the region. The report, issued by Antalya Museum Directorate, stated on February 4, 2016 by the Adrasan Police Station Command that there was no damage to immovable cultural assets that needed to be protected in the field as a state-of-the-art archaeological site, and that there was no incident in which citizens had been subjected to armed watch in Sazak Bay as a primary and second-degree area. It is also 1/25, which was approved by the Department of Environmental and Urban Planning on 28 January 2013. According to the 1,000-scale environmental layout, the forest area remains in use. The Ministry of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism Protection, development zones and tourism centers under Article 734 of Tourism Act 2634 is in charge of making, making, building, and tasting plans on every scale, but there is no sub-scale study in the areas protected under the Law Code 644 and 648, in which the Ministry of Environment and Urbanisation is authorized. The answer to the main oral question motion (6/152) has been launched in the village of Niğde Fertek, where work has begun to determine the potential and registration of the status and cultural assets, and procedures continue to be collected and assessed in place of information and documents pre-existing in co-ordinating with the District of Niğde Directorate of Culture and Tourism, Museum Directorate and the State Special Administration. Has the village of Fertek been covered by urban sites? Once the research is completed in the village of Fertek, the issue will be presented to the Nevşehir Cultural Resources Regional Council, and an urban site will be established if the urban status proposal is seen as appropriate. The answer to the main oral question motion (6/154) is: the cultural assets found in our country are conducted by the Ministry under the Law on the Protection of Culture and Nature, which is a fundamental and special law on the activities of their protected areas and sites. Historical buildings, mosques, and similar movers are registered at the site of the protection zone, the protected areas of registered structures are defined, but if the protected area is not determined, the protected areas are considered to be the protected areas of the High Council for the Protection of Culture Assets in accordance with Principle Decision 5 November 1999 and 664. In this direction, Law 2863 is subject to the permission of our Ministry of Physical and Reconstruction of the immovable cultural assets that are required to be maintained according to its relevant legislation and principle decision, and there is no separate work being carried out by the Ministry of the State of Niğde. The answer to the main oral question motion (6/155) was assessed by the Nevşehir Cultural Preservation Council in our Ministry's Ministry of Renewal and Restitution project on the Esenbey Turbage, and asked for a re-evaluation of the failures and failures in the Council Resolution No. 15 September 2015 and 1776. The restoration project on the Esenbey Turbage (Esenbey Turbage) project was sent to the board's office on 9 September 2015 and 3335 by the District Directorate of Kayseri, but has not yet been assessed since the deficiencies of the relay and the restoration project have been detected, and the shortcomings are expected to be completed. Projects for the central district of Nığde district of Burhan Mascidi (Torunoğlu) have been transferred to the District Directorate of the Kayseri Foundation 10/7/2013 days and 2468 as an additional article to the Department of Regional Protection of the Nevşehir Cultural Assets Directorate, which has been submitted to the board's report on the project on 25 October 2013 and 950 since its decision to be submitted to the new branch of Burhan (Torunoğlu). Later, the static report on the move was referred to the board's office as a supplement of Article 27 of the Kayseri Foundation Office, dated 3 January 2014. However, the matter has not been assessed as to whether the required work has been carried out and not been forwarded to the directorate by the board's decision. The matter will be reconsidered once the board has completed the required work. In addition to Article 4 August 2015 and Article 2851 of the Kayseri Foundation District Directorate, the restitution and restoration projects for the collective mosque were sent to the board's office and it was decided that the matter could be considered on our board after the meeting of the issues specified in the Nevşehir Cultural Resources Regional Council on 16 October 2015 and 1833. He's always late with the missing transactions. The decision on June 12, 2014 and November 1132 includes the statement on the mosque's mosque and on the front of the mosque and on the doorstep of the construction of the projects to be submitted to our board along with the art history report, which will be prepared in accordance with the data that will be completed under the supervision of the Foundation's Regional Directorate experts. Finally, an additional article of the Kayseri Regional Directorate of the Kayseri Foundation, November 9, 2015, and 3970, has been decided that it is not appropriate for the art history report to be made in the restoration project on the board's decision on December 25, 2015, and on the Council's decision on the Constitutional Mosque in 1913. No project has been forwarded to the director's office to be evaluated after this date. Answering the main oral question motion (6/156): Now I have to explain the question here because the answer cannot be understood. The work under the Street Health Project in the Central Neighborhood of Bor district was intended to be completed 100 per cent by the end of 2016. What stage is the study at? Will the Street Health Project be completed by the end of 2016? How many structures are considered within the scope of the field work? There is no Street Health Project conducted by the Ministry in this area. Answering the main oral question motion (6/157) is: Like all over the world, visitors' numbers differ significantly from museums in general. In our museums, social projects, educational studies, similar activities are being conducted to increase the number and satisfaction of visitors, and there are also changes and renovation projects aimed at editing and displaying them. A total of 45,000 people visited the Museum and Silver Monastery in Niğde, one of the four counties in the Cappadocia region, in 2013. Touring programmes for the Cappadocia region are also included by tour operators to visit the Nicde Museum and the Silver Monastery. It's part of their program, and we encourage it.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0108par0291	Nevşehir is 3.5 million and so are we.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0107par0292	Answering the main oral question motion (6/172): The Ministry of Culture and Tourism has not been granted a grant in 2015 due to the lack of budget opportunities due to the assistance to local governments, associations, foundations, and festivals of Niğde Altunhisar district Ulukış and the village of Hasandağı in the previous years. It will be possible to support the event by being assessed as part of the regulation if it is applied for in 2016. This regulation, which I have just mentioned, has been announced from our ministry's official website to the aid of the following year, by the end of February, by the end of February, by the end of the year. Answering the main oral question motion (6/180): The Tripoli Museum (Kostaki Hall) was approved by revising, relay, restoration, restoration, exhibition, Tanzim and engineering projects -- the Sari- service work for the year 2013-2014, restoration and restoration projects by the Tripoli Cultural Resources Regional Council on December 11, 2015, and Decision 2655. The implementation of this job is an offer included in the 2016 Investment Programme and carried out in accordance with the grants. The province of Tripoli serves by turning the former government mansion into a cultural center. Answering the main oral question motion (6/202): The interactions of cultures in a particular geography are seen in food culture as well as in every aspect of life. We need to tell you what that book is in the book in question.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0109par0295	Sula Bozis..in.. Kapadocia Tasty..
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0107par0296	The book Sula Bozis (Sula Bozis) is a book by the name of Capadocia. To be able to tell whether or not the information contained in this book is valid, a detailed literature study and a comprehensive field study are also required. However, it will be possible to provide relevant data. This book is not the publication of our Ministry.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0109par0297	Not at all, Minister, but he made all the food in the area look like Greek food.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0110par0298	Mr. Gürer, if the Minister stays long after giving his answers, you may ask for an additional explanation.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0107par0299	Thus, it has been established that it would be wrong to comment on the matter without further review or research, as well as texts that could lead to mispromotion, disintegration. In addition to this, the 13th article of Law 4848 is now part of our Ministry's duties, as required by Article 4848, to create public literature and theatres of public culture, tradition and beliefs, folk music and games, arts, kitchens, clothing, decorations and so on, research, compilation, study and other scientific studies, doing, publishing, and introducing and providing data available to the public culture archives. In this case, research into public cuisine in the district of Niğde was compiled in 1996 and in the province of Nevşehir in 1989, 1990, 2002, 2010. Lastly, from 14 October to 23 October 2015, the province of Nevşehir was researched for public culture, and the information obtained was recorded at the Community Culture Information and Document Center. (6/203) There is something about the main oral question motion -- again the same book, and in response to it -- Professor Sacit Pekak has studied and published the two 18th and 19th century churches in the Ulwood village in separate editions of the 16th Research Results Meeting. Rott named many churches Basileus, Andreas, Mihail, Kiriaki, Sophia, Georgios and Blasius in his publication "Kleinasiatische Denkmäler aus Pisidien," Pamphylien, Cappodokien und Lykien. There are two churches standing in the village of Uluaç, Niğde Province, Turkey. The Great Tree Church remains -- we call it the Ulwood Church 1 -- the Nevşehir Cultural Preservation Regional Council was registered on April 8, 2011 and on April 29,11, and the Ulupal Church 1. The Holy Tree Chapel -- which is registered in us as the Ulwood Church II -- was registered by the Nevşehir Cultural Preservation District Council on July 1, 2011 and Decision 3038. In a separate edition of the 16th Research Results Meeting, Professor Sacit Pekak speaks of two churches in the Uyultree village, which I have just told you about, dating back to the 18th and 19th centuries. The church, referred to as the Church of the Church, is partially standing and has not named this church, nor has its inscription been found. The church says that the church, referred to as Hagia Georgios, shows great similarities to the church of Rott. Other than that, there are also some rock-carved chapels in rock-carved settlements -- which I'll be telling you about in a moment. We don't know their names because they don't have books. The first was registered on July 26, 2013, on July 26, 2013, and on July 8,820, by the Council for the Protection of Nevşehir Cultural Presences. The Cingille Kaya Oyma Chapel was registered with the same date and decision of the District Council for the Protection of Cultural Beings of Nevşehir. Cingille Kaya Oyma Settlement -- one is a chapel, one is a settlement -- is the same date as the Nevşehir Cultural Preservation District Council, with Decision 829. In this area, no scientific excavations have been conducted in the area and across the province of Niğde have been conducted by Professor Sacit Pekak in 18th, 19th centuries on Christian religious architecture around Niğde and around it. The results of the investigation were included in separate editions of the 16th Research Results Meeting, published by our Ministry of Culture Assets and Museums General Directorate. We'll be attending the religious tourism conference tomorrow in the Netherlands, where we'll be promoting them again as Turkey's religious tourism riches, hopefully. Answering the main oral question motion (6/204): Where are the manuscripts, which contain information about the Ottoman-era region, said to have been sent from the Niğde Bor Khalil Yurdakul Library, translated into modern-day Turkish? What are the book names and content? That's the question. These books were handed over from the Niğde Bor Halil Nuri Yurdakul Library on April 6, 2004, as part of the law issued on December 30, 2010 and published in the Official Gazette 27801, to the Regional Directorate of Concession, which is the head of the Turkish Writers' Association, which has rare artifacts. The books, all digitally digitized, are available to researchers. The books are in 181, the Bor Judiciary Warrants in 181, Bor Secija Records in 182, Shecere-i Mevleviye in 183, 6 Fermans and Berat in 189, and Bor Court of Justice in the 191st place. They're in the Library of Medicine, the Writing Arts in Iconium. As you can imagine, he's there under protective conditions. Answering the main oral question motion (6/298): A total of 103 million, 578, 451 Turkish liras were sent to the province of Şanlıurfa from 2011-2015. The answer to this question is the sector distribution of investments and expenditures in 2011: $6,910,810 lira in culture, $13,483,500 in tourism; $19,539,847 in culture in 2012; 5,920,000 in culture; 38 million, 281, 302 in 2013; 2,970 million in culture; 3,754,850 euros in culture; 1 million,100,100,000 in tourism; 7,142 million in culture in 2015; 4,4 million in culture; 4,4 million in total culture; 4 million in 2011; 2 million,970 million in culture; 2 million,970 million in investments in the world; 2 million,9705,000 in the 2014; 1 million,850,000 in culture; 1 million,850 million. Answering the main oral question motion (6/311) was determined to continue the application of support on behalf of the 1 April-31 May 2016 of the Council of Ministers, dated 11/01/2016 in the Official Gazette No. 12 February 2016 and for the Support of Tourists (A) Group Travel Agents for Our Country 2016/8508. The Council of Ministers' decision included supporting Antalya Gazipaşa-Alanya, Antalya, Mugla Dalaman, Mugla Milas-Bodrum, İzmir Adnan Menderes and Kütahya as airports for landing. The provinces of Çanakkale and Balıkesir, located in the northern Aegean and South Marmara region, are located in the region of Northern Aegean Culture and thermal tourism Development, as part of the Turkish Tourism Strategy (233), which was drafted by our Ministry in 2007. The thermal water potential in our country's coastal area is located in the Troya Northern Aegean Tourism Development Zone, as well as the air-conditioning property of the Kaz Mountains and the flora-fauna feature, which includes many endemic species, is aimed at the creation of low-density tourism development in the region, as well as the integration of thermal and coastal potential. Now, in this question, when I was briefing them on incentives, my friends didn't make the latest development here. Our support for these planes was then extended until August 31st, and the new Council of Ministers was extended by the end of the year, and we began to see the effects especially in Antalya. We find that similar incentives will continue next year. However, the decision of the Council of Ministers has not yet been made, but these incentives have been extended by the end of the year. (6/403) Answers the main oral question motion: Today we work for Niğde. The identification, registration and protection of cultural assets in Niğde province is conducted by the Nevşehir Regional Council as part of the Law on Maintaining Culture and Naturalities No. 2863 and on principle decisions. The burning, destruction, or severe damage of registered cultural assets is not essential to removing registration records. There are 285 in the central district of Niğde Province and 136 immovable cultural assets in Bor district. (6/408) Answering the main oral question motion: Excavations were carried out in Tyana Ancient City from 2002 to 2014, under the decision of the University of Padova and the Council of Ministers for our Ministry, led by Professor Dr. Guido Rosada. The excavations of Tyana Ancient City revealed an early Christian church, shops, Roman baths, wall walls, and a mosaic area. However, the Italian team informed the Ministry that the work would be terminated in 2015 due to financial problems. At this stage, the Italian delegation launched operations on the termination of excavations by our Ministry. According to this, the assessment of the ancient city of Tyana will be evaluated by our ministry, and by whom will the next digs be carried out. An illegal excavation was carried out in 2012 within the borders of Tyana Ancient City. In the ancient city, the majority of Roman artifacts have been recovered. The trial resulted in a five-year sentence and a year and eight months in prison for the defendants, as a result of legal action against persons involved in an illegal excavation in the basement of a person's house in Belttown 8,949 parcels. Under the decision of the District Council for Protection of Nevşehir Cultural Resources of the Ministry of the illegal dighole located in the designated area, Kemerhisar has been contacted by the mayor of the Ministry of the Nüğde Museum. There is no information available at the Nüğde Museum Directorate regarding recent illegal excavations in Tyana Ancient City. Do you have any?
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0111par0312	It's everywhere. Not there, all of them.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0107par0313	Co-ordinated studies are being conducted by Nicde Museum Directorate, Gendarme and Security units to prevent possible illegal excavations in the region, and the municipality has been informed and warned about the prevention of illegal excavations and unauthorized physical practices. Answering the main oral question motion (6/409): The archaeological dig in Helena Church, architectural protection, wall paintings, restoration studies in the district of Aktaş, Niğde Province, Yenimahalle are completed. In connection with the church's launch, environmental arrangements have not yet been completed, and they have not yet made a visit.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0111par0315	Three years, Minister.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0107par0316	Once the environment is set up, hopefully, we'll open it up.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0111par0317	I'm hopeful of your era, when I answer them.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0107par0318	I hope so. (6/416) The answer to the main oral question motion is... I need to read the question because I'm going to read the table. In the last five years, how much is invested in your ministry for the sake of Konya? How is the distribution of these investments according to the years? The investments in our Ministry in the province of Konya from 2002-2016 are: 5 million 656, 350 euros sent in 2012; 4 million, 518, 450 liras in 2013; 3 million 243,750 liras in 2014; 22 million 142,615 liras in 2015; 1,300,947 lira in 2016; 36,862, 112 euros in 2012-2016. How are these sectoral distributions? 257,850 to the culture sector in 2012, 5 million 398,500 to the tourism sector; 329,450 to the culture in 2013; 4 million to the tourism; 2 million 293,750 to the culture; 12 million, 257,615 to the tourism sector in 2015; 1 million,720 to the tourism sector; 1 million,300,947 to the culture sector in 2016; 24, 604,612 to the culture sector; 12 million, 257,500 million to the tourism industry in 2015; 12 million to the culture. The main oral question motion (6/417) questions the amount of investment for Bursa and the distribution of its sectors. The answer is: 1 million 135 thousand in 2012, 1 million 611, 827 in 2013, 5 million 648,454 in 2014, 3 million 755, 704 in 2015, 641,500 in 2016, 12 million,828,485 in the province of Bursa in 2012. And I don't want to tell you the sectoral distribution of these things over the years because time is running out. At this time, in 2012-2016, 11 million 974,319 were sent to the cultural sector to invest in our Ministry of Bursa. (6/440) I need to read the question in the main oral question motion: the names of books published in the Ministry of Culture budget in 2015 as Ministry of Culture publications, the authors of these books... The Turkish Ministry of Culture and Tourism and authors are: Turkish Kitchen, Arif Bilgin-Özge Samancı, Turkish; Turkish Coffee Culture, Beşir Ayvazoglu, English; La Cocina Turca, Arif Bilgin-Özge Samancı, Spanish; Mevlana, Osman Horata-Adnan Karaismailoğlu, Turkish; Osman Horata-Adnan Karaismailoglu, English; Sezai Karakoc -yani Karakoç, biography by Jakuklu, Turkish-Kevli, Turkish-Kevli, Turkish Cypriot, Turkish Cypriot, Turkish Cypriots, and Turkish Cypriots of Turkey. Fatih Demirhan, Turkish; Hat and Tezhip Art, Ali Riza Özcan, Turkish; Historic Town of Birgi, Hatova Island, Erdoğan Aslan, English; Ancient City of Civilisation Lemuria, Selda Baybo, English; Ancient City Of Civilization Phaselis, Nihal Tüner Örn, English; Sümela Monastery, Editor Hasan Aydın, English-Turkish; Historic Town of Birgi, Hatice Özdemir, English; Diyarbakır Castle and Surlars, Şabetin Özbo; Ancient City of Civilization Phaselis, Nihal Tuner Örn, English-Secüçün; Turkish-Estünı, Turkish-Estı, Turkish-Estriş, Turkish-Secı, Turkish-Secı, Turkish University of Artiş, Turkish-Estı, Turkish-Seşeşeşeşeşeşeşeşeşaş, Turkish University (Seşeşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaş, Turkish, Turkish University, Turkish University, Turkish University, Turkish University, Turkish University, Turkish University, Turkish University, Turkish University, Turkish University, Turkish University, Turkish University, Turkish University, Turkish University, Turkish University). These are the books and writers published in 2015. Answering the main oral question motion (6/446): Our ministry's inventory records have 159 caves registered as immovable cultural presences. Our work on how many of these caves contain ancient murals is not yet complete. Because new ones can come out. It's about them right now...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0112par0325	Is it registered in Niğde Province?
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0107par0326	In addition, there are three registered caves in the province of Niğde as immovable cultural assets, and there are no murals in these caves yet.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0112par0327	I do. Then they didn't. It's in the dark, and the vaccine was made with paint.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0107par0328	I'll put them in writing...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0112par0329	I'll give you my book.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0107par0330	Please, yes... (6/461) Responding to the main oral question proposal: The Film Support Board decided in 2015 that a total of 258 projects should be supported with 27 million Turkish liras. And the distribution of these is that in 2015, they're all going to make their first film, and they're going to have 14 director projects, and we've given them $4,150,000 in 2015. We've given them $18,100,000. We've given you seven animated film production projects, 139,500 liras. We've given you four, 200,000 liras for the research development project. We've paid 63 dollars for the documentary production project, 3 million, 15,500 liras. We gave him 69, 680,500 liras for the short film production project. We've given 66 scripts and dialogue writing projects, 714,500 liras. The director project, which will perform its first film in 2016, is nine, 4 million, 200,000 liras. The long feature fiction film production project is 27, 18 million and 750 thousand liras. The post-production project is four, 545 thousand liras. The script and dialogue writing project is 51, $585,500. Documentary production project 62, $3,838,500. The short film project is 43, 575,500 liras. Animated filmmaking project is four, 100 thousand liras. In 2015, the project of 235 private theatres for the 2015-2016 art season was supported by a total of $4,590,000 Turkish liras. Answering the main oral question motion (6/466): I need to read the question for the answer to be understood. The natural wonder Fenk Valley, located in Ulukışla district of Niğde, has a special beauty that can be used as a walking area of nature and photography. Is there any work being done by your ministry to identify this area abroad and abroad? We'll take that as a warning, but not so far. Answering the main oral question motion (6/467): Let me first read the question, because the bottom thing is the same. There are Karagöl, Chimigöl, Upuk Lakes on the Bolkar Mountains. Karagöl is 5,000 square meters. The very deep edges of the lake are steep and the water is constant. The chinigöl feeds on water from the bottom. In Kızıltepe Yaylaı, there are several more glacier lakes - 3400 meters. The largest of them is the Lake Upuk, just west of the Kızıltepe, and the edges of it are rocky. This feeds on water from the bottom of the spring. Does your ministry have a study of the natural beauty of these lakes to be introduced for natural tourism? Answering the main oral question motion (6/480) let me read the question again:: Where is the Double Bolkar Project in Niğde Province? In what stage are the studies of three different or even stringelages to the Bolkar Mountains? If so, when will the project be implemented? The request for the district of Niğde province of Ulukışla, Square Yaylaı, the Winter Tourism Center of the Bolkar Mountains, the site of Niğde Governorate Provincial Culture and Tourism Directorate of 29/12/2011 and published in 2839 is being published by the Ministry and reported that it was reported that it was reported to be an area of tourism, dated 19 April 2012, at 86737, at the University of Niğde district of Niğde, with the same address as the National Culture and Tourism Directorate. In addition, the financial aid request file, which will be drawn up on March 10, 2015, on March 1, 48358, which our ministry has sent to governors by the relevant local administration, will be addressed directly to the Governorate of Niğde, State Culture and Tourism Directorate or to our Ministry in the event that the request will be subject to the appropriate assessment of the 2016 programme. (6/492) The main oral question motion is: Is there a study for the rescue of the ancient settlement in the Byzantine king's tomb, located near the Akkaya Dam in Niğde Dam (Niğde Akkaya Dam)? (Six/493) The main oral question motion: (Nide Cici) is the only chestnut tree in the village of Balci that is considered ancient, is it registered or age-designed in the region? (The matter of the registration of the chestnut tree as a tree is the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism under the provisions of Law 648. Let's look into this together from the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0113par0338	One tree over five hundred years, one in Niğde.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0107par0339	(6/509) In the main oral question motion: Is it considered to save Bor Çukurkuyu Yerhan (Kurkkuyu), and to read stones with markings on them?
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0113par0340	The village of Omar Halisdemir.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0107par0341	With the permission of our ministry, there were surface studies conducted in the region in 2007-2009, led by Professor Dr. Lorenzo D'Alfonso. Studies by the head of research have been described in the International Excavation, Research and Archeometry Symposium, which is carried out by our Ministry every year, and published in the Research Results Meeting books. In 2014, surface studies conducted by Dr. Lorenzo D. Alfonso, head of the Clone Hound Excavation, in this region, have been detected in the Iron Age and Roman eras. In addition, the history of the region is associated with Rome and the Eastern Roman era. Thus, studies of these things continue. We use the results in these research and archeometry symposium broadcasts, but if you don't think it's enough, I'll run it again. (6/2121) directed to my ministry (6/141), (6/242), (6/244), (6/235), (6/236), (6/237), (6/238), (6/238), (6/239), (6/240), (6/241), (6/242), (6/242), (6/243), (6/244), (6/244), (6/244), (6/245), (6/245), (6/245), (6/246/244), (6/244), (6/244), (6/237), (6/237), (6/237), (6/237), (6/238), (6/239), (6/239), (6/239), (6/240), (6/244), (6/244), (6/244), (6/6/6/6), 6/244), 6/243), 6/6/6/244), 6/244). Now, why am I reading this one by one? So I asked my friends if I had to read them, and they said, "Well, if you don't say which ones of them are like this one by one, you won't be answered the question. I had to read them to you. Please, I believe you'll understand. A small request, before I finish my words: Now -- I specifically say about the Ministry of Culture and Tourism -- I will answer this question in writing. Many of the issues I call questions are in open sources, on the website of our Ministry and on the publications of our Ministry. Sometimes our fellow counselors run away to make it easier for the Minister to do their job. If we warn our fellow counselors, we will use our time more efficiently, productively, if we bring them up as a question proposal, if there are issues that have not been answered, issues that have not been answered, even though you have asked about them in our open sources, on our website, or as your healers. My respects to all of you. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0114par0349	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gürer, you've entered the system, you'll be asking the Minister questions?
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0115par0351	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0116par0352	Shall I sit here or here?
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0114par0353	You may sit down, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Budak, you're in the system, but since you're not on the list of questions, I'd like to inform you that I can't make a promise to you based on the third joke of Article 98 of the Civil Code. Mr. Special, you have a say. Mr. Gürer, you may ask your question, and if there is any information missing, you may request that it be completed.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0117par0357	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, Mr. Secretary, thank you for your information. I personally prepare all the questions by going to the villages myself because I have a 850-page book called the Capital of Niğde/ Kapadokya. I bring up what I see every year when I'm here, when I'm a congressman. Niğde, a lost city, an unclaimed city. Currently, the dwellings in Niğde are being repaired and carried around with money in other cities. Thus far, Niğde could not and could not receive enough support. For example, the ancient city of Tyana is the southern capital of ancient Cappadocia. I think we should do the digging in this town with the hands of the University of the Republic of Turkey because Tyanali Apollon lived here. As you know, there are 200 books abroad concerning Apollon of Tyana, and because it is paired with a prophet, it should be done by the universities of Turkey, not by Italians, but especially by the universities of Turkey. There an ancient city that is similar to Ephesus will be revealed. Now, there have been five scientific excavations in Niğde, which have recently finished two chapters. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One sentence...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0118par0362	Mr. Gürer, I'll give you one more minute, please complete.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0117par0363	Thank you. In this sense, Niğde is as deep and as deep as Nevşehir. There's a 10,000-year-old history, and I wish this date was taken care of. If 3.5 million tourists come to Nevşehir, there is wealth in which 1 million tourists will come to Niğde. In particular, the district of Çukurkuyu, the land of Omar Halisdemir, is filled with the ruins of Byzantine, Rome. Let me tell you something sad, I'm the first one to go to most of this, finder, documenter, and then it's registered in the name of others. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0119par0367	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, if there's anything you'd like to add, anything you'd like to explain, you have five minutes.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0120par0369	I thank Mr. Gürer for bringing these matters up with his questions, thank you very much for his warnings. Like I said, I've told you about the work done, but there are some that haven't been done. Your questions about what hasn't been done have been stimulating, as well as the whole area of Niğde and Cappadocia, really not enough to be known inside and out, which is a very serious potential. So, that's why I said, and I just said at the beginning of my speech, there's a religious tourism conference in Holland tomorrow, and we're only going there to talk about it. Your questions also contributed to what we were going to say there. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0121par0373	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thus we finished the part of the agenda. Mr. Star, you've entered the system, but since you're not on the list of questions, for the same reason, I can't promise you, as part of the third joke of Article 98 of the Civil Code. Mr. Special, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0122par0379	Mr. President, first of all, what the Minister is talking about is that questions are being asked according to the Civil Code 96, and the 97 (a) joke says that you can't ask questions about things that can't be asked easily from another source. However, Mr. Minister's warning on this issue is to the Speaker of Parliament because the last joke of the Article 96 of the Civil Code states that the President will publish the motions that he sees in accordance with the terms of the Civil Charter, not to our MPs or advisers, but to the Chairman of the Interior Charter. Mr. Secretary, I just heard. Mr. Minister, the information from another open source is prohibited according to the joke of the Interior Charter, 97/a) but the last joke of 96 is that the following questions are published on the list of papers from the Speaker of Parliament. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The error is not in the questioner or counseler, but in the Parliamentary Presidency, which does not act according to the Civil Code, which you say does not act according to it.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0123par0384	I take it you're not looking for a mistake, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0122par0385	No, no, he made a warning, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0123par0386	I'll give you a minute, you give me a statement, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0122par0387	Mr. President, I'm sorry I wasn't finished.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0123par0388	Aren't you done?
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0122par0389	No, it's not over, I'll continue.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0123par0390	Oh, sorry. Mr. Secretary, go into the system.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0122par0392	Mr. Secretary, when I entered, I...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0123par0393	Plus, I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0122par0394	In addition, Mr. Cetin Osman Budak and Aydın MP have questions that have been asked to the Ministry long before the questions answered. Since the minister has changed, Mr. Minister has chosen to answer questions against him, but it is against the principle of continuity in the state that Mr. Cetin Osman Budak is not answered due to the change in the cabinet by an Aydıllan MP, whose location is 38. I beg you, Mr. President, if you'll at least make a moment's commitment to Article 60, if the Minister sees fit, he may answer in reply or in writing, but I'll beg you to do so, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0123par0395	Mr. Special, at this stage of the agenda, we have reached a consensus that lawmakers who are not on the list of question proposals will not be able to ask a new question.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0122par0396	That's right.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0123par0397	You were there, we talked. My opinion was in the same direction, and I've already given you the reason. If Mr. Budak or Mr. Star had asked for a word according to 60, it wouldn't have been a problem anyway, I would have promised them a minute of their space, but you say... because Mr. Budak and Mr. Star felt the need to ask questions, I made this statement to you, and now they might want to make a promise in their place. If they demand it, I'll give it to them, but I can give it to them, not to your request.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0122par0398	I don't want you to consider...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0123par0399	They can report themselves, Mr. Special. Mr. Secretary, are you going to answer Mr. Gürer? Or Mr. Special?
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0124par0401	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0123par0402	Did you get into the system?
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0124par0403	I think I'm in.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0123par0404	Here you go, Mr. Secretary, just a minute...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0124par0406	Mr. President, first, after your cryptic conversations with Mr. Group Vice President, I've lost my answer. According to (6/24), according to the Civil Code 60, I feel there's something about me, but I don't understand what it's all about. But from what I understand, what you're asking before you start this discussion is that you say these questions are in open sources, you warn your advisors. You say that these questions should be asked according to the Internal Charter, although they should be done by the category of questions that can be asked, by the category of questions that cannot be asked. You say that the President should do it. Perhaps the presidency is a very democratic -- I need to say something right now -- with attitude, even with open sources of answers to these questions, the Minister may have given us such an opportunity to think that he might give more detailed, better answers.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0125par0407	So be it.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0124par0408	But we all understand what we mean, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0125par0409	Thanks.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0126par0410	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Star...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0127par0412	I want a say in 60.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0126par0413	Just a minute, from your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0127par0416	Madam Secretary, good luck with your new assignment. And I'm on my website because I'm on the Tourism Commission. You've been elected minister, the heart would have wanted to discuss what we'd like to do in the next 2017.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0128par0417	Okay.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0127par0418	Earlier, our predecessor was so focused on these issues, he gathered once a month and asked our ideas, accepted our proposals. Now, in 2016, tourism was desperate, you know it yourself. We have 2017 ahead of us. If this goes on, 2017 will be worse, I feel it. For example, there were 50 per cent tourists missing in this period, including Kuşadasi, Didim, Bodrum, Mugla, and the Fountain, and the troubles were enormous. Tourism is the one that covers Turkey's external deficit. Tourism with a million dollars' worth of cake in the world. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm really sorry you're still not aware of it.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0129par0422	Thank you, Mr. Star. Mr. Budak, come in.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0130par0425	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, in October of 2015, November of December, I made a lot of questions, and I didn't get any answers about them, but now I'm very pleased that you've answered a lot of questions with good intentions. I gave a very large file to Mr. Mahir Ünal. And there were many solutions here. I, now, again, would like to briefly reiterate that our proposals that we gave last year were especially given a discount in the SEC of employees in the sector, and that support was given because it was visible. 9 million is missing today, so I think it's going to go up to 12 million over the year. And when you calculate the impact effects of that, we're talking about, like, 16 or 17 billion dollars of damage, and you know it affects 54 sectors. France has been in a state of emergency for about a year, where tourism is negative.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0131par0430	Mr. Budak, thank you. If you'll give it to Mr. Secretary in writing...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0130par0432	The question is, there's a very good chance it's a missing year in 2017. You certainly saw that none of the measures you took in 2016 regarding 2017 were sufficient. There are burdens on employment and coastal areas that can be declared a disaster zone. If you have any work on these, if he's not in Parliament right now, then I'm in the Commission again -- and I'm a member of the Tourism Commission -- we'd like to address them. This sector is a very important sector. We see this as a national issue. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0131par0434	Mr. Budak, thank you. The record for asking questions today belonged to Mr. Gürer, 22 of the 31 questions. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You sort of had a conversation with the Minister. That's how we went through our first inspection process. I hope that the answer to the next verbal question continues in today's context. Mr. Secretary, do you have anything to say?
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0132par0439	I have a brief request, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0131par0440	Here, I promise you for a minute. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0132par0443	It is true that 2016 was a very difficult year, especially for the tourism sector. But as lawmakers of this sector, you know very well that this sector is also a perception management sector. So this is -- now, of course, when a ruling party minister says it, I'm going to say something very convenient to be misunderstood, but -- it also shows the applications in the world that it's true. Tourism is a business that is good as it says good, which is worse than bad. So we in Turkey are contributing as much to the possibility that the negative rhetoric about the sector is going to get worse between us and the outside. It's not malicious, but as far as the industry is concerned, it has that kind of communication dimension. So, yes, let's also talk to you about our problems with the sector at other meetings as a Commission, let's get your proposals on them, your solution proposals, but in terms of statements that we'll share with the public, the sector... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...in the middle and in the long run, there's no need to exaggerate real or manufactured fears. We're hopeful of 2017, and we've seen that some of the measures we've taken at the end of 2016 are really starting to come to fruition. Besides, you know, the crisis with the Russians...
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0133par0447	Mr. Secretary, can you wrap it up, please?
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0132par0448	It was based on a very exceptional event, so it's not a systemic malfunction. But what he's pointing to is that our systemic malfunction is that we've all seen in the industry that there's not a sense of tourism that's indexed to certain markets, that's limited to them, that's easy to do. So we have to diversify our market, diversify our products. The greatest contribution of this crisis is that we've seen how expensive this rehab can cost us in the past. And let's have the commission meeting, and I'd love to.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0134par0450	Thank you, Minister.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0135par0451	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0132par0452	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-04sit02spe0136par0453	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, in accordance with the 21st Article of the Protection of Personal Data Act, it is Wednesday (October 5, 2016) that we choose the five members who will be elected to the Personal Data Protection Board and discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of the law proposals and proposals. I'm closing the assembly at 00, and I wish you a good evening.
