tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I wish all of us good work. III. Exposure I'm gonna do an electronic check-up. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsibility statement belongs to Mardin MP Erol Dora. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0002par0012	Mr. Erol, wait a moment, let there be peace. Wait a minute.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0001par0013	Congressmans, please, I ask you to be quiet. The speaker's on the stand, we all need to listen. Here you go, Mr. Dora. I'll start your time.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0003par0016	President, everybody's up.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0004par0017	Mr. President, how can he speak in this setting? Anyone who doesn't listen, get out.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0005par0018	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0006par0019	Mr. Dora, wait a minute... I'll reboot your time. Congressmans, please, let's be respectful of the General Assembly and the speaker, please, I beg you. Here you go, Mr. Dora. I'm rebooting your time.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0007par0026	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers regarding curfews. I salute the General Assembly. Since July 2015 in Kurdish provinces, we face a grim picture of the curfews that have been imposed under the name of "Travel Street" and that the right to live in the district has been seized at all times, that the right to education has been suspended, that the settlements have been leveled, that funerals have been left in the streets for days, that all kinds of unlawfulness can be committed, but that it has been prevented from being criticised, that news has been done. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the blockades, which are currently under curfew, continue in three counties, including Cizre, Silopi and Sur. The curfews, which have been declared 57 times so far covering 20 districts of 7 cities, have totalled three hundred and seventy-five days. It is known that the blockade is in effect in the districts where curfews are officially lifted. 79 people lost their lives in the blockade in Cizre, where curfew has been declared five times in total. The funerals of 66 of our people are now held in morgues and basements of savagery. More than 200 of our citizens have lost their lives since July 2015 in Cizre. Our people were killed alive in a building by a fire caused by cannon fire. The people of the region are subjected to the violence of a second Madimak. Dear lawmakers, 42 people have died in the blockade that has been going on for 58 days in Silopi. 22 people lost their lives in the blockade that has lasted 70 days in Diyarbakır Sur. One of the greatest victims of the conflicting environment and destruction is the Suryani, who are already extremely low in the region. Finally, Mr. Yusuf Akbulut, the priest of the Mother of Diyarbakir, and his wife, had to leave the church where he had served since 1993 with white flags and settled in the hotel. The conflict in the church and its surrounding environment continues to be intense. We don't have any clear information on the destruction of the church yet. There are reports that the outside walls of the church have been heavily hit in the conflict where heavy weapons were used. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we witnessed last Friday's meeting in Mardin by Mr. Prime Minister with a superficial text that was reflected in public as the master plan, free from solving problems, creating new problems. Since security was returned to the highlighted practices, the situation has been gangrenised by destruction and deaths, with both the province and the world's expectations of this meeting in person, explaining the solution to the problem. However, a bad version of the security policy that's been under way for a hundred years has come out of the master's plan. Not a single sentence on how Kurds should be restored to equal citizenship with their Turkish brothers has been used to exit military means and move towards the peace plane. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we have to give up our problems and raise our problems to the plane of democracy. It is clear that a move to suppress basic rights and freedoms with security policies will not lead to democracy and will not solve the Kurdish problem. The closest geographical and historical example of this is Syria, and we believe that the Syrian peoples need to observe and reflect on the situation they are in today. I urge all political parties, 550 MPs, again, to take office in the name of the Turkish people's unity, peace and future, to abandon the concept of war before it reaches its breaking point, before it reaches its point of origin, and to return to the negotiation process under the Dolmabahce agreement.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0008par0034	Thank you, Mr. Dora. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Mr. Serkan Bajram, a member of the Erzincan MP who wanted to mention the 98th anniversary of Erzincan's salvation. Here you go, Mr. Bayram.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0009par0039	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our High Council. February 13th is the 98th anniversary of our precious land, the struggle of our precious children and the salvation of Erzincan. I stand before you for the martyrs who fell into the black ground as they entered a rose garden for Turkey's glory. For this occasion, as one heart, with the same faith, with the same determination, with the same love of the same country, I remember the sons of Erzincan, our martyrs, and our brothers Tamer Meric, whom we lost fifteen days ago in our Erzincan. Those who are not conscious of history have no vision of the future. As for the Turkish nation, it is a country and its sovereign love nation, which is not in the hands of any nation in the world, and our nation has given the only fight in the world, whose name is the Statistical War. Like the sons of our other cities, Erzincan brothers and sisters are on the tuition of the state of Turkey, which is won and built with victories on all the front lines of the Inflicted War. All Erzincans held rallies and demonstrations in the years when the national struggle spread in Anatolia, in which Gazi Mustafa Kemal had honored to be behind the torch of freedom that had been burned by Gazi Mustafa Kemal. The fight against Erzincan is also a struggle for independence that sets an example for the world. Erzincans have aligned seven heifers who do not want the state of Turkey, who do not want a nation called the Turkish nation. Erzincan, encouraged by the provocation of the enemies, was rescued by heroic troops under the command of Halit Pasha on 13 February 1918. February 13th is the day when he realizes that being occupied doesn't fit the Turkish nation's character, that he'll never accept it, and he cries out to the world. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey also has the spirit of February 13th in its establishment. Our Republic is founded on the spirit of February 13th. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, we know we have a lot to learn from the world, but there are values the world will learn from us about unity, about independence, about self-inflicted love, about co-existence, there are virtues. Turkey is a country that is too big and old to need anyone's advice or guardianship. It is a vast country with a conscience of a vast geography, with a background, with a build-up, with a rawness. And the fact that our love of independence is not limited to time and space. See, in the Wise Khan Gökturk Books, the Turkish people say, "If the sky doesn't fall above, if the ground doesn't break at the bottom, who can destroy your province and your ceremony?" As long as we are united, as long as we see 78 million brothers living in this country, no disaster can be our apocalypse. Neither Kurdish has the upper hand over Turkish (Turkish) nor Turkish (Turkish) has the upper hand over Kurdish (Kurdish). There is no power except in piety. No earthly power can bind a nation sworn to be one, to be alive, to live independently until the end of time. History is full of examples of how miserable those who resist it are. After World War I, we know that the mentality of those who divided Asia Minor (Islamy) has been against our unity today as well. Today, enemies have changed names, and even if their hostility has changed shape, they are working hard to divide, weaken, and tear our country apart. Our national poet Mehmet Akif Ersoy wrote as if he had seen these days: Now, O people of the dead, wake up in the morning! Is this bell tolled on you, so you can't get enough of it? There will be no Kurdish and no Turky, so wake up! Listen to the divine word of the prophet Zishan. And spend (in Allah's Cause) alone, for the end (of all) will be the loss (of all things). There's no government, there's no religion. Civilization has long known to you; First he wishes to tear it down, then swallow it. While I ended my words with these feelings and thoughts, Erzincan, in the national struggle of all Anatolian, in Çanakkale. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and today, while the terrorist organization is fighting against the PKK and the PYD, I respectfully commemorate the saintly martyrs who have dedicated their lives to the independence of this land, and after our martyrs, our goal is our destination, our path. The country and the people are grateful to you. May your souls be at peace and your dwelling places, O great martyrs, O Tamer Meric, our brother.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0010par0066	Thank you, Mr. Bayram. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Ankara MP Ayşe Gülsun Bilgehan, who asked for talks about Turkey on the agenda of the Council of Europe. Here you are, Mr. Bilgehan.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0011par0071	Mr. President, thank you. Really, sometimes, in a conversational setting, it's harder to talk in our Parliament than it is to talk in the Council of Europe, but I'll try.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0010par0073	Here you are, Mr. Bilgehan.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0011par0074	Dear MPs, after World War II, when 60 million people died, "Never again will such a disaster occur." I have been promised to present information on the January 2016 session of the Council of Europe, founded by its slogan and Turkey's founder. I salute you. As senior member of the new Turkish delegation, which took place after the November 1st election, I would like to share with you the issues of the world and European agenda discussed in the General Assembly. Speaking of senior members, in 2002, in the 22nd term, as lawmakers of power and opposition, I think of our successful work on the Council of Europe. After a decade of military coup, we ended our control process between 2002 and 2005 with modern regulations in the laws of civil law and punishment, including the democraticization packages we passed through this Parliament, zero tolerance for torture, the removal of the State of Emergency. We didn't pass the March 1st thesis from this House. I know you didn't let the transcripts open yesterday, but the talks from this podium are already history, and you know that after that day, after March 1st, the Clave received a message of celebration and congratulation that they never received. We read in their memories that even world leaders who then decided to invade regret the decision they made today. As the Republican People's Party led the two important commissions of the Council of Europe, a friend of ours from the ruling party, Mevlüt Sergeant, who is now Foreign Minister, then rose to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We should have kept this positive going, but the truth is, we've been away from the same place for ten years. There are things we're right about. Our rights were also handed over during the January Session talks. Turkey has surprised the world in the intense refugee movement, the agenda for all of Europe. As all developed European countries close their doors outside Germany, yes, that's right, Turkey is hosting 2.5 million immigrants on its territory, as much as it can. Moreover, hundreds of thousands of others from that time have gathered to take refuge in our borders. No one forgets that we're desperate for victims of fate when their small bodies hit land, but we've been teaching the child with the hundreds of thousands. While we were in Strasbourg, you approved a very important international contract here - the Council of Europe's ten-year contract to fight human trafficking. The contract lays on many important responsibilities and obligations, such as the 30-day recovery period, continuous residence permit, and the ability to sue the perpetrators for compensation. Of course, our expectation is that responsibilities and obligations, as in the Istanbul Convention on Fighting Violence Against Women, should not remain on paper and apply. The issues that we have a problem with are, as you know, lack of freedom of expression and backwardness. When I say "infractions against journalists," everyone turns and looks at us. The European Court of Human Rights ruled that 28 cases last year violate freedom of expression, 10 of which belong to us. On average, the President sued a person who criticized him every four days. In this regard, the ECHR is in place, and politicians need to look at criticisms more tolerant than other citizens. One of the indispensable issues of the Council of Europe's General Assembly was harassment and violence against women, just as we do -- and I remember Özgecan here. Turkey has been criticised again, as has been on many issues in this session. I saved the best news for last. With the opportunity to translate in the new era, for the first time, we gladly used our common language as four political party representatives, and we were able to produce a national delegation that provided a variety of compatible integrity. I offer my regards in the hope of seeing this solidarity we're trying to achieve abroad in our Parliament.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0012par0084	Thank you. Congressmans, I have friends in the system. Once again, we are implementing the first joke of Article 59 of the Civil Code. This joke of the article has arranged for three MPs to be promised off-the-tops. So I can't promise friends in this context, but in the later stages of our talks, we will certainly consider the demands of our friends who want to speak according to 60. I'd like to express my personal opinion. I have a motion to agree on this with my other congressional paralegal friends. I think we'll sort this out as soon as possible, and we'll sort this out, and I'd like to. Now, if I have friends of my group's vice presidents who would like to take a stand, I'll make them a promise. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0013par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Saturday, February 13th, is a very precious day for our Erzincan province. On Saturday, we will celebrate the 98th year of the liberation of Erzincan province from enemy occupation, along with all Erzincans, with our hearts at Erzincan. Congratulations to all the people of Erzincan. I ask God's mercy on our martyrs who have lost their lives in this struggle for salvation. On this occasion, more painful news came from the area yesterday. Yesterday, we expressed our condolences for our six martyrs here. As far as I know, we have three casualties today. Again, I ask for God's mercy, but I must repeat that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not a place of condolence, but a place of solution. I also urge the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to attempt to take initiative at the point of solving this problem that the government cannot solve, that the branch has reached its peak, that it has turned into a gangrene. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0014par0095	Thank you. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0015par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we've been saying here for days that the war concept that the AKP government has set out in the field has reached the extent of violence for a long time. Crimes against humanity continue to be exhibited in front of history in the basements of atrocities in Cizre. In Cizre Sur neighborhood, as we stated yesterday at the General Assembly, we have stated here that 20 bodies and 25 wounded were trapped inside a building and that those wounded who reached us were wanted to be transferred to the hospital. As a matter of fact, the wounded in the local area had already submitted their demands to the authorities. But unfortunately, as of this hour, there has been no positive developments in this matter that we have expressed since yesterday, and the attacks on this violent building continue with heavy weapons. So those who were injured and who were supposed to send an ambulance to the building to transport the bodies, unfortunately, have sent operational units there, causing the death of two more injured people who have been there in 24 hours. At the moment, the latest situation in that building is extremely severe with 22 funerals and 23 wounded waiting to be transported to the hospital. We have continued our hard work, especially today. The Ministry of Interior and the Minister of Interior will be sent to talks with him and ambulances on this matter. Despite his statement, there has still been no concrete development. The families of the people in the building today wanted to walk to the scene, but there was also a brutal attack on the mothers and families of the deceased and the wounded. I'd like to express that we condemn this human shame, this crime against humanity from here. Once upon a time, in the 1990s, such crimes against humanity had been brought into play in that region very recklessly. Today, those who committed those crimes, Turkey, publicly, fell into a position that couldn't defend its own actions. In front of history, in front of mankind today, I'm saying that they're capable of taking power and finding the freedom to commit this crime in their own hands, and they're bound to answer for it. I would also like to point out that if this unresolved fire continues in one part of the country, unfortunately, it could turn into a fire that we will never have the chance to put out again in all parts of the country. We hope it doesn't come to that. Our effort is to try to carry a drop of water by preventing these massacres, which means pouring gasoline into this fire. I urge the government and the government to give up this wrong attitude as soon as possible. On the other hand, I'd like to share with you and the General Assembly the information of an inhuman photograph from Cizre today. Earlier, a woman's body was murdered in Varto, Ekin Van, and later exposed in the middle of the street, naked. Today in Cizre, the body of a woman who was murdered in the same way was exposed to torture, inhumane, despicable torture, unfortunately, naked again. I'd like to express that we have condemned this vile mindset here who thought that he was torturing the funeral, and that we have cursed this inhuman practice, which was imposed on all women who were murdered in Cizre. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0016par0105	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0017par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, it's an Anatolian epic we've written. Every corner of Asia Minor has been watered by the blood of martyrs, and the sovereignty and sovereignty of our beloved nation, which has nationalized this geography, has always been on this geography. Whoever it was, in Çanakkale, or in Dumlupınar, the Turkish nation, against those who wanted to eliminate our sovereignty, has, of their own free will, driven away these imperialist ideas. So, every day we're here celebrating the day of the liberation of a county, of a province. These are the days when we must take warning. In fact, these are not salvations; we have never been colonized; we are never a nation built in committee rooms or other centers; these are our days of victory, and everyone must learn from it. So today, we're saying that part of our geography is not a country, and in this geography, we're relocating our specific provinces and counties. I think it's important that those who say, "Let's bring this geography to this point should also feel responsible by looking in the mirror. In this regard, I celebrate the glory days of Erzincan and Kahramanmarash. My dear brother, who has just spoken, has revealed the will and reason of our beloved nation, our ancient nation, and I want to express that we have joined from the heart. We have martyr news here every day. I mean, we really can't take it anymore. Sadly, I'd like to express my great regret that he's come to a point where he'll be taken for granted and ordinary. We have three martyrs again, and I ask God's mercy for our martyrs. Our beloved nation is well aware of the violence of the PKK. We know how he killed the children in the arson, how he used to massacre the deserts in the east and the southeast, how he wanted to re-crush the scenarios that we re-creating 100 years ago, in the form of drug trafficking and imperialists' toys, but this ancient nation has always corrupted the east, the west, the south, these projects, and the traps, and that's what we're going to do after that. In this regard, our resolve to fight the tyranny of this brutal PKK terror organization, especially against our citizens in the region, will continue, and it must be an example to all, that the mighty Turkish nation has always crowned its struggle with victory, and will then crown it with this victory. In that sense, the terrorist organization is the enemy of our nation and humanity, never, never having political legitimacy, the fight against terrorism must continue. As my dear brother, who has just been promised the salvation of Erzincan, has shown history, and we are ready to repeat it against those who have not learned a lesson from this date, as I say, not to fall into the trap of imperialism that wants to put the new Sevrs against the Turkish nation, the state of the Republic of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0018par0119	Thank you, too. Mr. Cakir...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0019par0122	Mr. President, thank you. Our country has been fighting terrorism for a long time. A war strategy or a concept of war is never in question, as written in some places or said by others. Everyone who does average reading knows the definition of war, its content, who it is, how it's done. In that sense, it's not a war, it's a legitimate struggle against terrorism. This struggle, of course, will continue until terror is over. In this context, we have three martyrs today. As it is said, of course, this isn't a place of condolence, but we will remember our martyrs in order not to be drawn to them, of course. We ask for the mercy of both Afyonkarahisar Dinar, and of three of our martyrs, both of Adana Karaisan and of Kırıkkale Bahşlı. I'm sorry for the loss of their families and our nation. Dear President, the esteemed lawmakers were attacked last night by four people with masks on their faces by the media group buildings of New Dawn and New Akit newspapers. Fortunately, there's no loss of life, no financial damage. I strongly condemn the attacks on both newspapers, and offer my condolences to the newspaper managers and their employees. Finally, a year ago, we had a daughter named Özgecan Aslan, a college student who was brutally murdered on February 11, 2015 in Mersin Tarsus. On the 1st anniversary of his death, his grave was commemorated at his head today. Again, I offer my condolences to their parents, and I pray that the new Uzgecans do not die. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0020par0127	Thank you. As the Court, we pray for God's mercy to our martyrs. In the same way, we tell our daughter to be blessed by God. We repeat our condolences to your relatives. Again, we welcome the people of Erzincan, the people of Kahramanmarash, who celebrate his salvation in this melanchage. I also celebrate this day of my hometown of Tripoli Mazka, which will celebrate the weekend of the invasion of the enemy. I salute the people of Tripoli and Mazka with love. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis under Article 100 of the Constitution, and I will have it read and submitted to your knowledge. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly About Minister of National Education Nabi Avcı, Düzce Chief Public Prosecutor's Office dated 21/1/2016 and B. M. In accordance with Article 100 of the Constitution's investigation, 2015/7980 and its supplements have been referred to our presidency to be carried out according to the Constitution's 100th article. As it is known, under Article 100 of the Constitution, the opening of a parliamentary investigation can be demanded by the proposal of at least 1-tenth of the number of members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly (55 members). Without such a motion, it is not possible for the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly to conduct a resuming procedure on the parliamentary investigation and additional articles, but the documents have been opened to MPs' examinations and commendations. It is presented to the knowledge of the High Council. It has been presented to your knowledge. As the main commission of Ankara MP Tekin Bingley, the Constitutional Commission and the Tali commission has been relocated to the Foreign Commission (2/538). It's for your information. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm having them read separately. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As it is known, 238 hectares of forest in the Pina Peninsula, located in the Gulf of Gülluk, Mugla Province, have been burned to ash seven years ago, and the area of the rare Aleppo pines in the world has been affected widely. However, hotel construction has been launched and ongoing in the region, which has been designated by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, which is located within the borders of Milas' Oaklik neighbourhood. The 169th article of the Constitution included detailed regulations on the protection and development of forests, with the importance of the country. The third joke of the same substance states that no activity or action can be allowed to harm the forests. The establishment of this tourism facility is in violation of Article 169 of the Constitution. Article 17 of Forest Law 6831 states that all structures and facilities to be seized by the burning of state forests will be seized by forest management, and that the same law, according to Article 93, will be punished for actions contrary to Article 17 of the forest law. We would like to announce the opening of Parliamental research under Article 104 and 105 of the Articles 104 and 105 of the TBM Subcommittee and Article 98 of the Constitution (the Constitution) in order to establish the implementation of the project and to determine how the building arrangements and permits for the construction of a hotel in a area under the quality of the forest are required. [[Mughle]] [[Tekirdağ]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Gamze Akkuş Isgez [[İstanbul]] [[Zonguldak]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Ali Haydar Hakver [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] [[Janitor]] [[Ankara]] [[Paddles]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Slap]] 21) Zulfikar Inönu Division [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] 24) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] "People are writing on Twitter, they're putting up a burning area photo and there'll be a hotel," Professor Veysel Eroglu, Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, said at a meeting in İzmir on 2/8/2013. There's no such thing. There's a generalization. If there's a list, somewhere, show me, and I'll get it back myself. It's impossible to give up the burning area for any other purpose. Burning areas can never be given away, they must be planted directly within a year. Article 169 of the Constitution has a very explicit mandate. This is very important to us. It's impossible to build a hotel, it's surrounded, it's detected, and we're reforestationing within a year. We're not giving it to you for any other reason." That's what he said. However, the fire in Milas district of Mugla also started construction of the second hotel with a capacity of 1,000 beds in Pigeony Cove, where 238 hectares of forest area were incinerated seven years ago. It is planned to be completed in 2017, about 50 metres from the sea. The forest area, designated by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, located within Milas's Oaktown, was assigned to three different companies in 2006 as 85, 80 and 95 acres, and was known to have a major fire at three separate locations. The 238 hectares of forest, including protected Aleppo pines, were burned to the ground, where the forest was deliberately burned to build a tourist facility after the fire, and Forest and Water Affairs Minister Veysel Eroglu, who conducted inspections in the area, reported that these places were deliberately burned to media and broadcast organs. In light of all these developments, the fires in the region, the authorities' statements about the fire, and then the building of the hotel that has risen, have caused doubts and concerns in their minds. In light of these developments, the forest regime, which is our country's lungs, faces a serious danger and must be investigated immediately. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On November 28th, Diyarbakır Bar President Tahir Elçi was shot in the back of the neck during a press statement in Diyarbakır, where he was targeted for his remarks on a television programme, detained, released under curfew and received death threats for days. What happened before and after the murder of the Tahir Elçi, and what happened in society, the expectations of infinitive and justice, reveal how essential the demand for the immediate enlightenment of the incident is. In order to uncover the facts behind the murder, we will drink and offer with respect to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 98th, 104th and 105 of the Constitution, under Article 104. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Ali Haydar Hakver [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] [[Janitor]] [[Ankara]] 16) Gamze Akkuş Isgez [[İstanbul]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Slap]] [[İzmir]] 20) Zülfikar Inönu Division [[Adana]] [[Zonguldak]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Amasya]] [[Antalya]] 25) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] Diyarbakır Bar President Mr. Tahir Elçi was killed on 28 November 2015 during an attack on the press statement carried out in response to the shooting of historic Four-legged Minare. It is the basis of the attack on Mr. Ebassador that he was involved in on a TV show, where he was detained, sued for days and received death threats. Although he himself has announced that he has received death threats in his statement during this period, it is significant that he has not been "protected" against threats. The Ambassador explained that minutes before his death, they did not want conflict in the region, they insisted on solutions and peace demands. Mr. Ambassador is an important figure known in Turkey and international platforms, known for his active legal and human rights struggle against human rights violations in the region, particularly the unsolved murders committed in the 1990s. The fact that the Ambassador, known for his anti-war, pro-peace attitude, was made a target on the front page for days because of his words was a harbinger of such an attack. Therefore, it is unlikely that the attack on November 28th would not be foreseen by law enforcement and intelligence units. In front of the cameras, it raises claims and doubts that the murder of one of Turkey's largest barmen, the president of the Diyarbakır Bar is planned. He also needs to explain why an action will take place at around 10:30 p.m. in the area where the statement will be made and why the intelligence information that the activists will arrive in a commercial taxi -- that this information is correct, is understood from the incident of the martyrdom of two police officers standing on the main street -- was allowed to explain in this area. It also raises deep suspicion to the public that police officers at the scene need to conduct a crime scene investigation and collect evidence immediately, while these procedures are not being carried out. In the course of a murder investigation, the criminal situation must not be overlooked. The crime scene must be investigated and investigated. The D.A.'s office went to the crime scene four or five hours later and came back without an investigation. No investigation of the crime scene and no gathering of evidence will leave the incident as an unsolved murder. The murder of Tahir Elçi must be subject to a thorough investigation. To investigate this murder, it is necessary to investigate the process leading to the death of the Ambassador, and to investigate it by establishing a parliamentary research commission for the discovery of those responsible. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since March 2011, which began in North Africa as Arab Spring, the number of Syrian refugees migrated to Turkey was 2 million because of policies followed by the AKP's power. In order to assess the impact of the number of refugees reaching serious figures on Turkey's sociological, social and economic structure and its consequences with a scientific understanding, we provide the need for parliamentary research under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution. [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Ali Haydar Hakver [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] [[Janitor]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Ankara]] 13) Gamze Akkuş Isgez [[İstanbul]] [[Paddles]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Slap]] 19) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 21) Zulfikar Inönu Division [[Adana]] [[Zonguldak]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] 25) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's foreign policy of the Republic of Turkey, which was shaped in terms of his understanding of peace, has changed significantly with the AKP's power by the time of the 2000s. For the past thirteen years, Turkey has changed its policies regarding the Middle East in its ring of fire and has attempted to take an active role in geography. At this point, however, Turkey's southern borders have become a region under the control of terrorist groups, where no state has authority. The developments in the Iraqi and Syrian context have caused different problems beyond Turkey's border security problem. In the past days, it has shown that the wrongs followed in foreign policy clearly affect our inner peace, social structure, economic balances. Turkey is the head of almost the most war immigrants in the world. The number of refugees from Syria to Turkey has reached 2 million, according to the latest figures, due to riots and conflicts that began in Syria since March 2011. According to data released by Amnesty International at the beginning of 2015, 220 000 refugees sheltered in Turkey remain in camps built, while others live in various cities of Turkey, especially Istanbul. The majority of Syrian refugees who fled the war to Turkey are also fighting for their lives in our country. As this painful table waits for urgent solutions, new problems arise in Turkey's social and economic life. Many national media reports have reported that many Syrian immigrants who try to survive outside the camps are known to be working as a cheap labor force, and their wages in working life have also been reduced to minimum wage, which should be the basic wage. The minimum wage is to be employed for $400 or $500 to the Syrian workers working off the books. Finally, national media reports show Syrian immigrants as one of the main reasons why rent prices have increased 100 per cent in Istanbul's neighborhoods - Bağlers, Güngören Esens, Hunters, Esenyurt. A large part of Syrian immigrants in Turkey are apparently not coming back even when the war in their country is over. In the short, medium, and long term, it is inevitable that this will cause problems in many different areas of social, economic, political, security and other areas. I would like to ask that parliamentary research be opened to investigate the problems Turkey faces in the short, middle and long term because of Syrian immigrants and to develop solution proposals. It's been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take their place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet at its 11/2/2016 meeting on Thursday (now), I respectfully submit that the following proposal of our group should be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. On December 22, 2015, it was proposed that six Syrian nationals who had been treated in various hospitals, given by Şanlıurfa MP Osman Baydemir and his friends (345 rows), be read in the same joint session Thursday (11/2/2016) in connection with the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Turkey, and to be submitted to the Turkish Parliament's proposal for research to the Grand National Assembly in order to investigate the terrorist activity in Syria. In favour of the group proposal of Peoples' Democratic Party, Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul will speak as the first speaker. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0021par0359	Mr. President, I salute you all, the esteemed MPs and the esteemed labourers of the General Assembly. Mr. President, first I'd like to make a brief reminder that, you know, on July 25, 2015, six Syrian citizens in Ankara for treatment were taken into custody. He was questioned by Ankara Anti-Terror Bureau Directorate on 26 July 2015 and was released by the republic's prosecutor's office after which they were sent. The information that six Syrian citizens were handed over to the Al-Qaeda, an extension of Al-Qaeda (Al-Qaeda) on the Cilvebü Border Gate, with an immoral procedure has been publicised. This information has also been accepted by the verbal meeting of our esteemed member of the group, the Undersecretary of the Interior. Dear friends, these six Syrian citizens, who have the knowledge of foreign introductions given by the AFAD with official permission to enter Turkey, have been treated, but have remained in Ankara to continue their treatments in Ankara. But these six people were handed over to an enemy organization that they were injured in fighting against, against the law, against international law, against our internal law. When we look at the additional protocols of the European Convention on Human Rights, our internal law, the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, it is clear that if there is a danger of death, torture, inhumane treatment, they will not be extradited there. Again, Article 33 of the 1951 United Nations Geneva Convention also states that the race of refugees or asylum seekers should not be sent to countries where life and freedom should be threatened because of their religious, citizenship, social and political thoughts. So in fact, according to our internal law and international law, Turkey has clearly committed a war crime, sending these people to their deaths. Unfortunately, the government and authorities have handed over the eye directly to the terrorist organization, Ahrar-ush Damascus, where there is a possibility that these people will be deported from the gates of Turkey, Ceylanpınar, Suruç and Suruç, and we have no idea what their fate is now. Dear friends, the Republic of Turkey has had all kinds of dirty relations with ISIS using the Antalya-Kilis borderline, and every day ISIS gangs can enter Turkey and deliver themselves to the enemy at work when they are blowing themselves up in Ankara, Suruçta, İstanbul Sultanahmette, Diyarbakır (Amed) Square, Diyarbakır (Amed). Again, every day, dear friends, ISIS gangs use the border to build a pile in Antwerp. There were 120 tons of ammonium nitrate fertilizer found in Antwerp. In Antwerp, they set up these DAIH gangs, slave markets, the precious friends, the slave markets that marketed the oppressed women and their children. And every day these DAİH gangs are sent to use this border line, where ambulances are sent, where gangs are being moved to Antwerp, where they're being treated and sent to fight again when they're cured. Again, we know that in the AFAD camps, the APAH gangs organized and fought back into Syria. The evidence of this has been released over and over again. Again, while Tel Abyad was being liberated, some other substances, such as electricity, medicines, and food, which had been seized in Tel Abyad, had been reflected in the public, the press. Dear friends, I'd like to tell you through an example of how easy Turkish soldier, ISIS, has made his work on the border. Three terrorists from Sudan are coming in, the gang is approaching the soldier waiting for the border, and he says he wants to join the ISIS gang. So the psychology of the Sudanese coming -- actually, it's the perception of the whole world, but I want to tell you. I'm going to go to ISIS to fight the Turkish soldier. They see ISIS and Turkey in cooperation enough to say, "I'm going to fight the war." This is the oil trade and, again, the trucks that were sent there, etcetera, the weapon that was made, all kinds of help is public knowledge. Dear friends, those who have given such support to ISIS, especially the ones who drive ambulances across border lines every day to cure DAİŞ gangs in Antwerp, unfortunately, we've been trying to express here for days, they insist on not taking the people who remain in basements in Cizre and leaving them to die in groups, slaughtering those people by bombing them. We have received news today that crimes against humanity are being committed again, dear friends. Women's funerals are exposed naked. It happened before in Varto, and now, it happened again in Cizre. It is that he cannot even tolerate the funeral of the Kurd. Unfortunately, this hostile attitude towards Kurds has turned our country into a bloodbath. Every day, the government operates a policy of persecution against Kurds, and the death of Kurds is not enough, women, children are not enough, they are also being tortured. The Kurdish people are being disciplined by funerals. This is a crime of humanity. Seriously, don't you ever blush when you're doing this? You'll send an ambulance to the E.R., you'll take it from there, you'll treat it in your own hospitals, but you'll send your own citizen to his death! Is that acceptable, my dear friends? In such a case, while we are still forcing the HDP Group to live together, while continuing our efforts to create conditions of co-existence, the government and state's hostile and hostile attitude continues to lead our country into greater fires, greater disasters that we can't get out of tomorrow. The government must give up this hostile attitude immediately. The Kurds have never had any hostility against the state of the Republic of Turkey. The Kurds did not wrong any community they lived with, nor did they want freedom for themselves alone, and they wanted it for the people they lived with. Now, if you can still torture Kurd's funeral while you're at it, if you can still destroy Kurd's family, women, and elders, this will really set this country on fire tomorrow, and we need to stop this fire, and we need to put it out soon. Everyone must carry a drop of water there as much as they can, but the government's attitude, unfortunately, is to pour gasoline into the fire, causing this fire to grow and move to Middle Eastern geography and to the west of Turkey. That, my dear friends, is the hostile attitude of six individuals. You take these people in the form of crimes of men, and deliver them to Ahrar-ush Damascus, who fought with the band of the DAISTs. So, what's the point? Do you have anything to explain this, any words? Well, if you're going to return it, why don't you return it? Why don't you direct them from the cylve-eye... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Handing them over to their wounded enemy while fighting against them? That's not an acceptable attitude.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0022par0375	Congressman, I don't know if I should congratulate you on your success in saying what isn't so right over and over again. How do you sequence what's not right over and over again?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0023par0376	Don't say anything, please!
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0021par0377	You have to give up that attitude first. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0023par0380	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. Peoples' Democratic Party will speak against the group's proposal as the first speaker, Mr Mehmet Erdogan. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0024par0383	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the nationalist Action Party group against the HDP group's proposal. I hereby salute your high council. Now, I'd like to begin by asking the Lord God for mercy of the martyrs we've been tired of following in the last few days. In recent days, Mr. President and AKP have ignored thousands of years of Turkish state tradition, savings, experience, world balances, leaving the Republic of Turkey facing a great uncertainty both in domestic policy and foreign policy. When we look at what has happened in our country and our region and the explanations of power in these last days, we worry about where our country is really being led. See, Turkey insists on the recent YPG pollen between Turkey and the United States... that we, as the Nationalist Movement Party, have said this before everyone else, that terrorism is terror everywhere, for us, the PKK is no different than the PYD, and the other terrorist organizations. However, without paying attention to these warnings, the government, unfortunately, gave the NYD a lot of support on October 29, 2014 as the co-chair of the Great Middle East Project: unfortunately, on October 29, 2014, it allowed it to pass through Turkey into Kobani, and then hosted its representatives as if it were the head of state in Ankara. While this was happening, you ignored our warnings as the National Movement Party. Of course, you see what's right now; it's a YPG terrorist organization. You say, "Describe your attitude to the United States about their relationship with it." Twice, the United States has established its stance against your statements against the Turkish state's statements. The YPG is not a terrorist organization for me. Now it's your turn. We look forward to what the United States will do to the attitude of the ruling YPG.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0025par0387	We called out, "O America, what shall we do?"
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0024par0388	There's nothing wrong with calling me, Mr. President. When you call, "O America!," your voice must be heard, and America must withdraw its support for the YPG. So, in time, we are the Co-Chair of the Great Middle East Project. Those who can't see today are wrong for what they did yesterday, and they're not the only ones hanging from their necks. Today's danger is not only happening to AKP (AKP); it is happening to the Turkish state, it is happening to the Turkish nation. In that sense, everyone needs to come to their senses. Gene, since the AKP came to power, it has made an extraordinary effort to separate the Turkish nation. But there is one thing the AKP has overlooked: Turkey is not a state founded by the gathering of tribes. The Turkish nation has a Turkish state that covers everyone on this land, and in this Turkish state -- according to our Constitution -- everyone is in its place. It's impossible for anyone to get anywhere by segregating, but the AKP has been constantly trying to divide our nation with ethnic lines. Gene, at the ceremony of drawing lots to mark the appointment of 30,000 teachers, Mr. President had an explanation that would have other meanings for the fight against terrorism today, as if some part of Turkey's territory had been occupied by others, as if we were saving them. This needs to be quickly corrected by the President. At this point today, this situation in our region and inside, which is meant to be reduced into Turkey, must be quickly controlled. Now, Prime Minister Davutoglu said that the Syrian border has never been closed and that there is no further question of reopening it. Look, Syrian policy... today, when we pay attention to the dissolution in Syria, what happened in Syria, we see that the Bayır Bucak Turkmen are facing the greatest suffering again. Today, against the Bayır Bucak Turks in Syria, the Assad forces, behind Russia's support, are attacking YPG on the one hand, ISIS on the other, the Bayır Bucak Turks are moaning, but the government is avoiding it with weak explanations. The wrongs that have been done there have to be stopped quickly. Gene, in connection with the terrorist incidents in Turkey, the action plan the Prime Minister announced last Friday in Mardin is, indeed, crucial to the release of AKP (AKP)'s stance towards PKK (PKK). When we pay attention to these statements, we now see the PKK being invited back to the table in Ankara. What is it? Sir, the powers obtained by the Metropolitan Law in the municipalities have been abused, new regulations will be made, and the resources and powers of local governments will be increased. That's when we said all this as the National Movement Party when the Metropolitan Act came out. Of course, a number of powers can be transferred to the country, some resources can be transferred to the country, but every power handed over in a unitary state must be used by the incumbent, that's one. Second, you need to establish a system that will monitor whether or not those who exercise the authority that you hand over are using it correctly. However, the amendments to the law on local administrations during the AKP period increased the powers of local administrations, but were also left unattended, the control mechanism was eliminated. Mr. Bkent Arinc also said that, and here are some of the municipalities from AKP. If you could control it, some things couldn't be done today. Finally, I'd like to put an end to what Mr. Davutoglu said at the group meeting on Tuesday regarding the 10-point action plan in Mardin which he clearly invited Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) to join: In Mardin, Davutoğlu openly invited the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) to the table. The souls of our martyrs are in torment. Our national and unitary state, our sense of unity and brotherhood, is lynched. The AKP has never learned from anything. Betrayal has gone all the way down to the cells of this political concept. The AKP has brought a cease-fire offer to the PKK, implying that the tender is ready to sign. The Mondros, the Sevr people, the rootless who long for manda and protection have seized the AKP and taken Davutoglu as their guardian. Mr. Davutoglu, I want you to know that this country is Turkish country. The Republic of Turkey founded the Republic of Turkey after many misfortunes, many catastrophes, the Turkish nation. Kutlu is a Turkish commander of Alparslan, and his soldiers are Turkish. They've Turkished these lands with their lives. In this holy land, not the children of Mesopotamia, but the children of the Turks, all equal, respected, honorable, and indistinguishable. This holy land has been entrusted to us not with the balance and composition of peoples, ethnic tribes, masses, tribes, but with the thousand-year struggle of the Turkish nation. Blessed is he who says, "I am Turkish."
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0026par0399	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0027par0400	We're not all Turks. Not everyone in Turkey is Turkish.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0024par0401	If you have anything to say, say it here, there's no need to pick on me.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0026par0402	Mr. Erdogan, please... In favour of the group proposal of Peoples' Democratic Party, the last speaker is Mehmet Gökdağ, Gaziantep MP. Here you are, Mr. Gökdağ.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0028par0406	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding HDP's group proposal. I hereby salute the General Assembly. By the way, in the last few days, I ask God's mercy for the martyrs that we are really tired of hearing. The MPs, according to the proposal, were detained from the guesthouse of 6 Syrian nationals who had been treated in various hospitals in Turkey on 25 July 2015, and released after their statements by Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office on the grounds that there were no criminal elements, but after that, they were handed over to the El Nusra organization operating in Syria. This process is to be revealed with all its dimensions and to open a parliamentary investigation into the outcome of these wounded individuals. Dear lawmakers, we too wish to expose such incidents in our country, which is a state of law, so that no incident stays in the dark, and the question marks in their heads will be removed. In this case, lawmakers, the AKP's wrong foreign policy has basically made our country the center of unresolved hardship, suffering. We got into a fight with all our neighbors, no friends left. Most importantly, there is no state left on our border with Syria, where we have the longest border. Right now, we're neighbors with organizations on the Syrian border where we have the longest border. The foreign policy followed by the AKP has brought us to this point. Part of our Syrian border is a PYD judge, part ISIS judge, part El Nusra judge, and part of our border is turned into a kevgire, and so is it. We have often said: "This policy leads us to the swamp of the Middle East, don't do it, turn around." But the AKP sense, which co-chairs the Great Middle East Project, rejected all our warnings, threw our suggestions behind the ear. Dear MPs, look, I, as a member of the Gaziantep MP, have submitted a question to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on July 8, 2015, before the Suruç massacre has occurred. With this motion, I wanted to draw attention to the danger of ISIS. I submitted this motion on an incident in Gaziantep. What had happened? On June 30, 2015, in the district of Karkamiş, where Syria is bordering with Syria, the 3 Tunisians want to cross over to Syria, which states that they are Sudanese nationals, and they want to fight the ISIS ranks there. What are the authorities doing? They won't allow it, and they're sending these 3 Tunisians back into the country. So we asked these questions, and we said, "Did he share any information or intelligence about security forces for these 3 Sudanese who came to the Karkamis Border Gate and disappeared? Why were these 3 Sudanese allowed to leave, and why were they not taken into custody? Isn't there a security weakness here? Don't you see that these people are a danger to society? Should they not be taken into custody and deported? We have noted the danger of ISIS, such as our questions; it has not been heard. If this question had been taken into consideration, Suruç, Ankara, Sultanahmet massacres might not have happened, it would not have happened, but it was ignored. After the Suruç massacre, we did a study as a Republican People's Party delegation in Adıyaman. We've drawn up a report in this study, and we've submitted this report to public opinion. In this report, we found that activities related to ISIS were made very clear, very comfortable in the Adıyaman we went to. Our research there showed that ISIS was organized within local dynamics in Adıyaman, that some places in the city were operating as a contact point of ISIS, and in our report, we made it clear in our ISIS report, the name of the perpetrator of the massacre in Ankara. It was not considered, it was ignored, and we saw that there is support there -- in the least -- through neglect, and there is leniency in the activities of ISIS. Dear friends, at the moment we're here today, let's come to the issue of PYD, which has become a problem between the United States and the government. Dear friends, on October 29, 2014, who was the government, who was the Prime Minister, who was the authorities who had led the Iraqi Kurdish forces from Habur to Syria to help the PYD? How sincere do your objections seem today? Who hosted, who hosted, and how many times did Salih Müslim. How serious are your objections today? None taken. Do you have the right to do this to our country? No. Because of the wrong foreign policy you've followed, Gaziantep, whose deputy I am, has become the center of terrorist organizations, facing great challenges. In Gaziantep, and Gaziantep, its arsenal and its woes, the public is anxious, wondering when these problems will be resolved, how they will be resolved, when they will have peace. Our neighboring province is the Church. They're out of the woods, folks. There are more Syrian immigrants in the church than there are in the population. Economic life in the church, social life in the Church, political life in the Church are confused, people are nervous. What's he nervous about? Bombs fall on the church, our citizens and citizens lose their lives because of the bombs that fell on the church. There are no measures, no serious investigations, and the point today is that because of AKP policy, our country and our city, our neighbouring city, our border cities are in great trouble. Face it, guys, you didn't run this country. The point where you take the country is clear, in the square, there's really no need to argue so much. You took it from zero terrors and today you turned the country into a bloodbath. You cannot rule this country, accept it. Let us rule our country, our region, peace, brotherhood, peace, and love, by the principle of the Republican People's Party. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0029par0420	Thank you. Public Democratic Party will speak against the group's proposal as the final speaker, Bartın MP Yilmaz Tunç. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0030par0424	Mr. President, I've been promised against the HDP group proposal. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. I think it's helpful to make statements about some of the sentences of our MPs who spoke before me before I went to the HDP group proposal. Now, a sentence has been used: the anti-Kurdish attitude, the policy of persecution against Kurds. We rephrase this: The PKK is a terrorist organization that runs a policy on Kurdish persecution. (AS/TK) Turkish Republic of Turkey's fight against PKK terrorist organization is at stake. The entire Turkish nation knows this, and so do our Kurdish-rooted citizens living in the Southeast District, and the whole world has accepted the PKK as a terrorist organization, and this struggle will continue until there are no more terrorists in the mountains and cities, and no one will be able to deter the government of the Republic of Turkey from this determination. Here, the terrorist organisation PKK is not an organization that advocates the rights of our Kurdish citizens; on the contrary, it is uncomfortable with the AK PARTİ (AK PARTİ), which has solved their human rights problems over the past thirteen years; the PKK is troubled by the government of the EC PARTİ, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, Ahmet Davutoglu and the members of the AK PARTI who have invested in the region over the past thirteen years, made airports, rebuilt its hospitals, rebuilt it.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0031par0427	The woman who exposed her body naked...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0030par0428	As regards our Kurdish citizens, the EC PARTI has always been the target and is the target because it eliminates criticism that rejection and assimilation policies do not benefit from the most basic human rights. The PKK terrorist organisation has been troubled by the peace of its people in the region, has been disturbed by the process of resolution; since 2002, since the AK PARTY came to power, its steps to democratisation have been very uncomfortable with investments in the region. When we first came to power, the PKK was disturbed by the implementation of the AK PARTI (AK PARTI) which has been under way for many years; you can defend it in the main language. The AK PARTI government, Turkey's Grand National Assembly, has been disturbed by the implementation of its extraordinary state. He's in prison with his child in the native language...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0032par0429	You've become uninhabitable from extraordinary circumstances!
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0030par0430	I'm telling the PKK, what's happening to you? The PKK must be disturbed.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0032par0431	You've become uninhabitable from extraordinary circumstances!
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0030par0432	Why is there a HDP... why do you feel uncomfortable?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0033par0433	Address the General Assembly, Mr. Bronze, please.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0030par0434	You couldn't propaganda in the native language, you couldn't speak your own language in the region...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0034par0435	Now you're killing, what's the difference?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0030par0436	When you spoke, you'd be investigated immediately. It is the AK PARTI government that opens the way for propaganda in the main language. His parents could not speak his own language in prison; the AK PARTI is the government that opened the way. The terrorist organization, the PKK, has always been troubled and still exists. The PKK's terrorist organization has always been troubled and disturbed by the opening of private teaching institutions in the main language, the opening of TRT Kurdî (TRT Shesh) and the 24-hour broadcast of TRT Shesh. Again, one of those big investments in the southeast, maybe one of the big hospitals, the airport in Sustane, we remember in that region, in winter, how our pregnant women were asked to be delivered to city centers, hospitals, health centers, but now the palette ambulances, helicopters are at the service of our citizens in that area. Of all these services, the PKK terrorist organization is disturbed, disturbed. A 10-point action plan was announced at a meeting held last week in Mardin. This action plan is an action plan that deals with the fight against terrorism, the social, cultural dimensions of the fight against terrorism. Again, the PKK terrorist organisation is uncomfortable with this action plan. In short, this organisation, the bloody organization, is always disturbed by Turkey's resurrection, the presence of our Kurdish citizens, and Turkey's democratisation. Let him be disturbed, we will continue to fight the PKK, and we will continue to address the human rights problems of our people in the region, and we will continue to shower the region with investments and provide for them. Look, where are our citizens running from, where are they going? The PKK is not running south, abroad, running away from the terror organization's tyranny. It is not going to Kobani. Where's he going? He's coming to Ankara, he's coming to Istanbul, he's in the Republic of Turkey, he's running from that persecution to his own country again. Here, valued lawmakers, you must not make statements from here that will benefit the PKK's terrorist organization, where you must not distort the facts. It's been talked about for days, it's been called ambulances, about ambulances, our Minister of Health, Mr. Dr. Mehmet Müezzinoglu has made statements over and over again, despite these statements, you've continued the same black propaganda. Ambulances are waiting 200 meters away, and it's possible that the wounded could be transported to the ambulances, but they're not. This propaganda has always been done, and it's still being done. Well, the ambulances are here, ready, waiting for days, 200 meters from where they were mentioned, but unfortunately, they kept a black propaganda on the agenda. So the ambulances waited for days for those alleged wounded to be taken into the ambulances. Here are the ambulances, they've waited, but unfortunately, they've always done that propaganda. Now, as for the group proposal, there's still a claim in the HDP Group proposal. The claim is: 6 Syrian citizens who have been treated in various hospitals in Turkey on July 25, 2015 are detained in the headquarters of ÜNİM-SEN. After the prosecution has investigated, they are released on the grounds that there is no criminal element, and after they have been released, they are handed over to Al Nusra terrorist organization from the relevant departments of the Ministry of Interior. It's a bet. In connection with this claim, of course, the necessary forensic investigations, administrative investigations have been launched. There is also a request from HDP MP Mr. Baydemir. The Ministry of Interior inspectors are also being appointed to investigate whether this claim is true or not. Furthermore, the republic's prosecutor's office continues to investigate whether such a claim is true or not. We need to wait until these investigations, these investigations, the forensics and administrative investigations are finished right now. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let me say that no one believes your propaganda, nor does the world believe you, trying to make the state of the Republic of Turkey look like it's connected to terrorism, terrorist organizations, DAİSIL, Al Nusra, Al Qaeda, and Al-Qaeda. On September 30, 2013, the Turkish Republic's Council of Ministers ruled that not only did it include these organisations on the list of terrorist organisations, but it was not only a decision published in the Official Gazette, it also played an active role in the fight against DİHŞ-like terrorist organisations. In this sense, more than 2,500 people have been arrested and over a thousand others have been arrested on suspicion of prosecution. Both the legal struggle continues and Turkey has been active in terms of helping coalition forces. In this sense, Turkey is the country that opened the Incirlik Air Base to coalition forces. It is of no use for anyone to pretend that Turkey is connected to the DİH terrorist organization and is connected to Al Qaeda-related organisations. There are international documents about this, and there are European Union norms. Here are the documents that Turkey has no contact with in that sense. With these feelings and thoughts, since the investigation into the subject of the HDP group's proposal, the group's proposal is ongoing, I say I do not agree with the agenda, with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0035par0444	Thank you. People's Democratic Party...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0036par0446	Mr. President, during his orator talk, he stated that we were here to distort the facts, especially with the information we had made regarding the situation in Cizre, which we had previously made regarding the ambulances. If you'll excuse me, I'll take my word for bullying.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0035par0447	So I can only give it to you for that reason because he has just submitted his criticism of the PKK, and I don't think there's a request for this issue. For that reason, I'll give you two minutes...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0036par0448	I guess I can't explain it, or you're having trouble understanding it.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0035par0449	I get it. It's about motive, it's just about...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0036par0450	What we said about ambulances...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0035par0451	I'm just saying, about that reason...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0036par0452	Then you're using that sentence on purpose.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0035par0453	...I give you my word. Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0036par0454	PKK doesn't need our defense...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0035par0455	Let me finish my sentence, then decide, please.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0036par0456	...you of all people should know that.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0035par0457	Let me finish my sentence. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0036par0461	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We've expressed this whole ambulance thing from here over and over again. From January 23rd to January 30th, no ambulance from the Ministry of Health went within a mile of the scene. In communication with the crisis table established only on January 30th, we said that on January 30th, they moved to a place 150 to 200 metres away from the scene, where they were waiting with the city ambulance. The situation that you've been talking about in all these three weeks has been valid for one day, and unfortunately those ambulances had to come back at the end of the day with the conflict that was created that day. Other than that, the fact that the ambulances traveled within 500 feet of the building before the conflict was created is absolutely a lie. A few days later, along with the press, the ambulances go a ten-minute drive to those televisions with the cameras, and then back to the Four Road position, one and a half kilometers away. After all, I mean, you don't have to believe what we're saying. But there is a fact that unfortunately, a mass murder was committed within the knowledge of the AKP government. We can't give clear numbers at the moment, but we have information that nearly 100 people were killed there, which is a very grave fact that in three weeks' time, all of Turkey's public opinion has carried out a massacre in a way that the world's public will see. The truth will come out in the coming days, and you will be ashamed of what you say here. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0037par0466	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I will submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0036par0471	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit01spe0037par0472	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial. There's a disagreement between the clerks, I'll vote with the electronics; I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. Please don't leave the General Assembly, friends with compasses. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0037par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly. The vote of the People's Democratic Party Group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor of the proposal... Those who don't agree... The proposal is not accepted, the decision has enough numbers. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Thursday (now) 11/02/2016, I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The meeting of the General Assembly on Thursday (February 11, 2016) until the meeting of Law Bill 97 in the Union of Today (February 11, 2016) was completed, until the meeting of Law Bill 97 was completed on Thursday (February 11, 2016), and until the meeting of Law Bill 97 was completed on Thursday (February 11, 2016); the completion of the programme on Friday (February 12, 2016) was proposed until Friday (February 2, 2016) to continue its daily work until Friday (February 12th). In favor of the Justice and Development Party's group proposal, the first speaker is İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kabbat.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0038par0016	Mr. President, dear friends, I have made a promise to express my views in favor of the group proposal. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Dear friends, our group proposal is to propose a change in the Parliament's schedule for today and tomorrow. You know, we started the debate yesterday on the bill known as RD Bill 97 rows. This law is a very important law. The Tenth Development Plan and the 64th Government Programme, a law that is expected by the part of which the law is currently involved, is expected to take effect as soon as possible. In this law, it supports the work of our country to become a center of attraction in science and technology, especially in our universities, and again, all of our businesses, particularly small and medium-sized businesses, have tax incentives for R&D and design activities, and dozens of similar facilitating, encouraging provisions. So, this law -- God willing -- is already a bill supported by a large majority of our opposition. However, yesterday, unfortunately, when negotiations failed to continue due to roll call, the law was at risk of completion during the prescribed time.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0039par0018	Where were your friends, Mr. Doğan?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0038par0019	Therefore, at the point of immediate implementation of this bill, we expect the contribution of our worthy opposition.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0039par0020	We'll make a contribution so the guys can get here first, General Board.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0038par0021	Until today's work is completed, it is recommended that our Parliament continue its work until the end of the law, and if it cannot be completed today, the General Assembly will begin where it left off tomorrow and work until the end of the law. I await your support for our proposal, and salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0040par0024	Thank you, Mr. Kubat. The Justice and Development Party will be the first to speak against the group's proposal, replacing Mr. Engin Altay, İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0041par0028	Dear President, I have made a pledge on the Justice and Development Party's proposal for the Parliament's working order. The speaker, sir, said last night there was no roll call because the parliament had been asked to make a call. He said, "It's a flaw." In fact, what was necessary was to ask for a roll call, to oversee the House is the responsibility of all political parties here, all lawmakers. In fact, we need to look for faults and faults in our fellow lawmakers who have not been in Parliament and have not been in attendance. In this respect, your honor's criticism is not true. Yes, we don't even want this Parliament to work three days a week, but we want the laws that people really want out of Parliament, the laws that they miss, but as far as we can see, unfortunately, three days a week and the MPs don't realize that we're not putting everyone in the same pot -- they're raising fingers and dropping fingers, and that's what's causing Parliament to lose face. In this respect, it's not the right thing to do with the law-making technique, dear friends. Now, Mr. Yilmaz Bey, who was just quoted, said: "Sir, we have brought TRT Shesh. We have brought defense in the native language." Why is that a lie? There is no law between the two lips of TRT Shesh, dear friends. At one time, they called it TRT 6. They made TRT Shesh; and now they have made TRT Kurddi out of TRT Shesh. There's no law to it. Here, bring it to Parliament... why don't you take out the law? Between the lips we brought freedom, we brought democracy. The law of lie, take it out, and I'll believe you. Two: In the same way, you went to the rear of the European Convention on Human Rights with the main language defense. How did you get to the back? What is available before the change, is that since the investigation of our Criminal Court Act, if our citizen can't express himself in official language, if he can't express himself, whatever language he knows from the first stage he meets the police; Kurdish, English, English, German, French, French, French, while you were able to defend him, you made the law that you had brought along with the HDP. What do you mean, after the prosecution? I mean, you can't defend the police in the main language, you can't do it in the D.A.'s office, you can do it after the prosecution. During that period, the Justice and Development Party and HDP deceived and deceived the people of the region. As a matter of fact, that was the essence of it, and that law is now in effect, dear friends. In this respect, what brings the Justice and Development Party to the southeast? He brought three k's. What's 3K? He brought fear, brought chaos, and brought blood. That's the truth. Three K's, chaos, fear, and blood are now in the southeast. When the law is suspended, without basic rights and freedoms, when it suits you, when it comes to dealing with terrorist organizations, when it doesn't work for you, sir, I'm fighting terrorism. I'm talking to 80 million people. What are they saying? Sir, america, are you a friend of ours or a friend of the PYD? It's a PYD terrorist organization. I'm calling out, there are lawyers among us, what do you need to declare a terrorist organization? We need a decision from the Council of Ministers. What's the rest of it? The official newspaper needs an ad. Dear Professor Dr. Burhan Lamb Hodja is here, our constitutional law teacher, so ask your teacher for a consult. He wasn't my teacher at the time either, but I mean, he was in class at the time, and I was standing next to our teacher, but if you don't know, learn from the person who knows.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0042par0033	Ask him about the MIT trucks. He knows about trucks.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0043par0034	So is my teacher.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0041par0035	The person who knows will tell you that the decision of the Council of Ministers will be made in order for an organization to be considered a terrorist organization in a country and will be declared in the Official Gazette. O two-faced political power, before you do so, you call it a terrorist organization. Why are you giving lies to the public? You're running a pretty good public perception of things that don't match the facts, that don't meet the law, that don't match the law. You're talking to America, sir, you're saying things, you're saying things. Well, we went to Malatya Orbukik, and we told them not to set up the American base here. Why did you set it up? Isn't it the Justice and Development Party that founded the American base on the Globe, Malatya? The fig base wasn't active, and as the Justice and Development Party, you were the one who put it under the command of the United States and activated it? Dear friends, isn't it the Justice and Development Party who put a sack over our soldiers in Iraq and remained silent in front of him? More than that, Mr. Doğan, we're lawyers. What are we talking about? Sir, when the members of the terrorist organization arrived in the southeast at night when the strange citizen gave a loaf of bread the next morning either the police or the gendarmes were coming: you gave bread to the terrorist organization coming in. We have thousands of citizens who have been sued for aiding and abetting the terrorist organization. So, what did the political power do? Did Oslo go and see him? Did he tell you to ignore him? The Prime Minister himself confessed that during the course of the solution, they made the cities a pile. It is a confession. If this isn't aiding and abetting terrorist organizations, then what is it?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0044par0039	Decide, are you opposed or not?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0045par0040	And you're the man who performs under the Apo posters! You're the guy who walks under the Apo poster!
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0046par0041	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0047par0042	My dear brothers, it's the political power that falls in love with terrorist organizations who are here arm in hand with terrorist organizations.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0045par0043	You're the one walking under the Apo poster!
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0047par0044	Look, when you come to politics about Syria, you say that you...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0045par0045	Answer me, Mr. Tanal! Aren't you the one that's walking under the Apo poster? Answer me!
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0048par0046	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0047par0047	You have brought refugees of Syria, refugees of Syria. Look, the bomber in Sultanahmet, didn't he turn out to be the one you called an asylum seeker, the one you registered with? He didn't come out? So you called it a refugee, and you gave them all wings and arms, very comfortable.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0045par0048	Mr. Tanal, did you walk under the poster of Apo or not, brother? Tell me!
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0047par0049	Dear friends, you call the PYD organization a terrorist organization. But didn't you meet the leader of the PYD in Ankara, in Istanbul? Didn't you guys have meetings with these guys? What are you talking about? We're curious.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0045par0051	Did you walk under the apo poster or not? Tell me, Mr. Mahmut Tanal!
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0049par0052	According to the changing conjunctive, the Republic of Turkey is protected.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0047par0053	When you look at these, dear friends, here you are, walking arm in arm, in law, in morality, in prudence, in faith, together. Dear lawmakers, don't sell your country for positions, for positions to be elected again. Take care of your country. Don't cooperate with terrorist organizations, don't cooperate. But, unfortunately, this political power did this. Your report card is really, really weak. In fact, if you're looking for a traitor to the country, if you're betraying the country... Dear friends, terrorist organizations in the country were zero when you arrived in 2002, they didn't have terrorist organizations like this. And it was the political power that made them grow in this country, grow, come down from the mountain to the city. Only the lawmakers confuse this: those who sit in line with power are different people. Those in power need to be there, they need to talk. These words are addressed by the Council of Ministers. You should also say that at your own individual meetings in the Council of Ministers. You guys can't give me a bonus by giving me a piece of your business.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0050par0058	We don't have that problem. We're putting the truth out there.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0047par0059	So you keep saying: "We came by choice. " The people don't vote for you. The people are voting for Recep Tayyip Erdogan. [AK PARTY]
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0051par0060	Well done, well done!
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0047par0061	Don't talk to me like that. Look, do you know why this is happening? The people don't vote for you. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE] Why? You're nothing. He won't vote for you because you're not worth it. [AK PARTY]
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0052par0062	Congressman, I can't hear the speaker.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0047par0063	So you should know that. They'll vote for you if it's worth it.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0053par0065	Bye-bye!
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0047par0066	He doesn't vote for you because you're not worth it. You should be ashamed of them. You should be sorry.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0054par0068	Mr. Tanal, thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0047par0069	That's why you're clapping. I mean, really, that's about it. I thank you all. I offer my respect and respect. [Cheers and applause from the ranks of the AK PARTY!]
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0055par0071	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0056par0072	Mr. Baluken, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0055par0073	During his speech, Mr. Tanal stated that the HDP had deceived the people along with the AKP. He made a direct pass at our group.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0056par0074	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0057par0075	Mr. Tanal, purple is also a color.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0056par0076	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0058par0079	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. The HDP has never deceived the public. During the solution process, he also stood behind all of his work and publicly declared all of his work with ten articles in the Dolmabahçe agreement.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0059par0082	Did the guns come from the sky?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0058par0083	If there's going to be a mention of deception from somewhere, it's time for the CHP to take another look at who's been deceiving the people about the palace coup after the June 7th elections. After June 7th, the people's will was lost, the election results were ignored, the parliament's door was locked, and for thirty-seven days, you watched the coup under the name of the Statistical Talks. At the end of the 37th day, your president came out and said nothing about the coalition. Even though you had the authority to open the General Assembly and run Parliament every day for 37 days with the number of MPs you had, you didn't bother to put 110 signatures together and run Parliament. Well, all of this, you know, opened the way for that coup process. He caused the coup to continue the war process in exactly the same way. You'll have to question all of this. Even to form a Suruç commission -- left, socialist, revolutionary, Alevi, conscientious paralegal friends -- I'm not saying anything, they have very valuable efforts, and I don't want to destroy them, but you've resisted institutionally. After the pressure of your MPs, you put together 110 signatures and then opened them to the House. With all due respect, if there's a palace coup today... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...if today's AKP has an effort to establish an authoritarian regime, you have contributed the most. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0060par0089	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0061par0090	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0062par0091	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0060par0092	Mr. Turan, please. He got up before, wanted a word. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0062par0094	Mr. Group Vice President gave false information in his speech about who's fooling the public, one. Second, he disrespected the will of the nation using the statement of the coup d'état. That's what I want to talk to you about.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0060par0096	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0062par0098	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. We've just seen our friend, the main opposition party representative, with an example. The solution process was a prayer of this nation; it began with good intentions, it took risks, but where it came from, it was sabotaged by some so-called civilian structures, particularly the terrorist organization, who could not distance themselves from the terrorist organization. We've paid a great price for this country not to bleed. But the example is that it is an exemplary matter by our side that people who oppose the solution on that day, who insult us every day, today say, "Why has the solution ended?" I wish they'd cried out from the top curtain that day about the solution, about the other issues, and taken care of it. As for the matter expressed by another group of our vice presidents. The coup d'état after June 7th was not reflected by the will of the nation. Dear friends, the more the will of the nation on June 7th, the more it is the will of the nation on November 1st. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) On that day, the negotiations were held, the results were inconclusive, and I'm glad it was November 1st. The government's in charge, instead of a government that wastes time with these polemics, and doing business with all this fuss, and all that talk, and all that talk, and all that talk, and all that talk. If you have a problem with the war on terror... it's just beginning, I'll tell you that, too, we're just getting started. We'll stick together as long as we can until this nation's national union is united.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0063par0103	Go to the front, my dear, and don't send the children of Asia Minor.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0062par0104	It's not about June 7th, it's about people who think they can make room for themselves in Syria. If it wasn't for Syria, you wouldn't have bothered about June 7th, but when the Syrian situation became like this, with global forces in it, would we be able to get space there? The reflections of the organization, the organization that you love so much, brought this here. It's not about June 7th, it's about November 1st that this nation clearly takes over the matter, and it's about 97 percent of the national will. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0064par0107	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0065par0108	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0066par0109	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0064par0110	I'll make a promise to Mr. Tanal. Then I'll listen to you, Mr. Baluken. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0066par0112	Mr. President, when our group vice president friend just made a promise...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0064par0113	You mean Mr. Bauken?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0066par0114	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0064par0115	Yeah...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0066par0116	I'd like to say something about this unfair taunt because it means something I didn't say, and it's taunting our party.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0064par0117	Now, if you claim to have said the sentence you didn't say, I can promise you a moment of your time.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0066par0118	It was like this, Mr. President, look, what I said was...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0064par0119	If the group's in charge of taunting you on behalf of the group, let's know if you're in charge.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0067par0120	That's different, no.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0068par0121	He's the president of his own group, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0069par0122	I was bullied as Mahmoud Tanal.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0070par0123	You go ahead, put it on the record, say what you're saying.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0069par0124	He said, Mr. President, that if you...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0070par0125	I'll turn on the microphone and you can talk more freely. Just a minute, please.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0069par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. When Mr. Yılmaz Bey, who was a member of the Justice and Development Party here, said: "We have brought freedoms to the country, we have brought defence in the native language." I said: "This is a lie, this is an unrealistic statement for what?" If you remember, in the Penal Code, you're a good lawyer, too.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0070par0131	I heard, yeah.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0069par0132	...from the pre-2012 investigation phase, the right to defend is free, but the new regulation will be provided with the fee, provided by the defendant; not in the investigation phase, but only after the prosecution. However, the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0070par0133	You've repeated your thoughts, it's all on the record. I've listened to you, you've said it all, you're repeating it now. It's already on the record, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0069par0134	It's not over.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0070par0135	I've listened to you, but you're repeating the same thing.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0069par0136	But, Mr. President, I want you to promise to express it.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0070par0137	You've made your statement, Mr. Tanal, you've already said the same thing, you've repeated it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0069par0139	Mr. President, look, this is a violation of the law of equality between lawmakers. I mean, look...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0071par0140	Mr. Tanal has filed a report.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0070par0141	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0069par0142	Mr. President, I need you to...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0070par0143	I'll explain. You said, I turned on your microphone, you repeated the same thing.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0069par0144	I didn't say "explain," I said "promise" because of sarcasm.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0070par0145	Everything you've said -- I've listened to you very well on the stand -- is already in the police report.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0069par0146	Mr. President, since you haven't acted equally in the law among the MPs, I'd like to make a promise to the speakers just now from the stand to tell me...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0070par0147	But I'll explain. You said. Look, I asked you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0069par0148	I want promises from teasing. You're taking the bullying to the explanation.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0070par0149	I promised you your place to explain.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0069par0150	I'm opening up the procedure debate under Article 63 of the Civil Code, since you don't treat every member of parliament equally.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0070par0151	I treat all MPs equally. I just want you to know that if you want a word from me about bullying, I'll give it to you on the stand in two minutes, but if you want an explanation, I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0069par0152	It's not an explanation, Mr. President, it's a taunt.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0070par0153	And when you started talking, I said, "If you're going to explain," you started talking, I turned on the microphone. Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Please...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0072par0156	Mr. President, please, because of the bullying, I'd like to open the discussion of procedure according to Article 63.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0070par0157	On what grounds do you open it?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0072par0158	The reason is, when you allow other MPs to speak from the stand, you tell me to explain.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0070par0159	Mr. Tanal, look, I repeat.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0072par0160	Because of your different attitude and behavior among the MPs.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0070par0161	Mr. Tanal, I know what I'm doing. You were here last semester. In general, we give a minute to MPs who want to make a statement -- that's the rule.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0072par0162	Mr. President, I didn't ask for an explanation, but I'm telling you, you're...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0070par0163	Excuse me, I'm talking now. If you'd like to make a promise about the bullying, of course, we'll give you two minutes off the stand. I promised you, from your place, you started talking, you started explaining, and you repeated what you said on the stand.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0072par0165	My dear President...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0070par0166	I'll explain it to you. I promised you a minute at your place. Please explain to me where the bullying is, and I'll take it under consideration.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0072par0167	I'll explain.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0073par0168	Mr. President, let's move on to the next agenda.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0072par0169	Dear President, as acting Speaker of the House...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0074par0170	Explain to me where the teasing is.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0072par0171	That's what I'm going to tell you. I'll explain if you let me.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0074par0172	Come on, I'll let you. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0072par0174	My dear President, as Deputy Speaker of Parliament, as you stand on the stand -- as the original courts of law, as the fundamental trade courts are tied to the plaintiff's or the defendant's request, if the law will apply to you -- even though I have not asked you to explain it, you do not promise me because of the taunting, but because I have asked you to. That can't happen, Mr. President. I mean, please...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0074par0175	Look, I repeat, Mr. Tanal, you made a promise...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0075par0176	Don't, Mr. President, let's move on to the next agenda.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0074par0177	Let's get this straight, guys. Easy, easy.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0076par0178	He doesn't know what he's talking about, Mr. President! What band are you seeing for?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0074par0179	You made a promise...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0077par0180	Look at this...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0074par0181	Mr. Tanal, I've listened to you, so you listen to me, okay?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0077par0182	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0074par0183	You wanted to say, you said, "He said something I didn't say, deputy leader of the group." I asked you, "Are you going to explain or do you want to talk about bullying?" I asked you, and you started explaining. So I turned on your microphone to fit your attitude, and you made your statement. Time's up. So I didn't make up that one minute and two minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0077par0184	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0074par0185	I did that. Now, I'm asking you to tell me what you've been bullied about, and why.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0077par0186	Mr. President, Mr. President, because of the bullying according to 69, when we want to speak, you rightly say: "Friend, tell me your troubles, tell me your troubles." Why should I promise you?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0078par0187	Mr. Mahmut, did you or did you not want to discuss the procedure?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0077par0188	And so, as a result, I said here:
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0079par0189	I'm asking you for a reason.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0077par0190	For that reason, I'm your...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0079par0191	What's your reason without teasing?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0080par0192	What did he say? What did he say? Are you beautiful? She said to you!
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0077par0193	Would you excuse me?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0079par0194	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0077par0195	The legislator who's taking the stand, don't take the challenge.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0081par0196	Did he just call you beautiful?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0077par0197	Don't make a scene! If there is, you'll come up with something.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0082par0198	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0081par0199	You're the fucking challenger!
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0077par0200	Mr. President, then shut him up. If you won't shut him up, I mean...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0081par0201	Did he just call you beautiful?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0083par0202	I said, Mr. Lawmakers, I don't have a ruler. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0084par0204	So shut him up.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0083par0205	I don't have a ruler. Please... I'm listening, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0084par0207	Cetvel... then I'll tell you... the 161st article of the Civil Code is a ruler, very comfortable...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0083par0208	Mr. Tanal, what is your request?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0084par0209	...I'm going to...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0083par0210	What's your request?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0085par0211	Mr. President, please get Tanal out of this situation, he's in trouble!
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0084par0212	Look, Mr. President, just because my voice isn't coming to you, I felt like explaining it to you so you could hear me through the microphone.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0083par0213	No, I-I mean, clearly, I turned on the microphone while I was holding you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0084par0214	Yeah, I mean, you opened up to me because I couldn't hear you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0083par0215	No, I didn't do that. I thought you were going to explain...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0084par0216	You didn't open it for me to explain.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0083par0217	What is your request, Mr. Tanal?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0084par0218	My request, Mr. Group Vice President, was to pick on me.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0083par0219	What did he say? Give me a reason.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0084par0220	The reason is that you're the one who's working with the AKP, cooperating with the people. He said to me, "You're the one who's fooling the people." This is a taunt according to Article 69 of the Civil Code. That's why I want the word.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0083par0221	Come on, two minutes. Okay, that's how you explain it, I'm a victim.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0084par0223	You won't let me explain, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0083par0224	But you're explaining it differently, Mr. Tanal. I will explain. You say, "You have spoken of the Law of Punishment."
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0084par0225	That was an explanation.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0083par0226	Now you're saying something else. Make it clear, let's decide.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0084par0229	Mr. President, in 2012, when it was remembered, the political power that walked arm in arm with terrorist organizations at that time, the political power that met in Habur, the political power that met in Oslo, sir, in order to deceive the people of the region, said: "Look, I, look, I bring the defence of the native language."
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0086par0230	We got it.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0087par0231	Do you know what the CHP said then, Mr. Tanal?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0084par0232	The native language was called after the prosecution and was paid by the state.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0087par0233	Do you know what Dilek Akagün Yilmaz said?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0084par0234	Dear lawmakers, a man who goes to law school, his name, his title, a lawyer, will speak to me. They won't put you through criminal law if you go through with it again. You know why? Because he says after the firing phase, he doesn't say after the investigation.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0087par0235	Tell me what CHP said to that law, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0084par0236	There are two stages of criminal reasoning. What's before the prosecution?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0087par0237	What did CHP say to that law?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0088par0238	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0084par0239	We call the prosecutor's and police phase the investigation phase, and the stage after the indictment was accepted is the process of firing. In fact, there's a report on the list of smart guys. This is a way back. He said. Right now, there are some of the smart guys in your group who are the MPs. The European Convention on Human Rights states: "If a person cannot express himself in official language, the price of the interpreter can only be paid by the state, and it can only be arranged so that he can express himself at every stage. " If we want to dominate fair judgment, freedoms, people who don't speak official language at every stage of the trial can express themselves by being paid by the interpreter by the government.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0089par0241	Mr. Tanal, what did CHP say to that law, what did CHP say?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0084par0242	Other than that, I, of course, would like to tell Mr. President... Indeed, indeed, I know you from the past... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I know you from a lawyer's life, but how can you stand these people?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0090par0246	These people are the MPs you call them.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0091par0247	We put up with you...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0084par0248	I mean, I don't understand how you've been with the same group since three semesters.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0090par0249	Mr. Tanal, these are the people you call the MP, please. Thank you, please.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0084par0251	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0090par0252	You've already said what you said in your place once more, Mr. Tanal, please. Let us obey the Civil Charter. You say, "Please obey the Civil Charter."
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0092par0253	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0093par0254	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0090par0255	Mr. Bakuken, it's time. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0094par0257	Mr. President, speaking on behalf of the AKP, the group's deputy has charged us with empty words, sayers, and co-operation with foreign forces, so if you'll excuse me, I'll respond to bullying.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0090par0258	Here you go. Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0094par0261	Thank you. Dear friends, if a choice was made in a country and the people's will which emerged in that election was not accepted, if a new process was imposed on the entire community despite the will of the people, its name is clearly a coup, a coup to the will of the people. The coups don't necessarily have to be military coups; there are bureaucratic coups, there are coups done by the judiciary, which, after June 7th, there are blows like the palace coups that carry out the process we're talking about. Why do we call it a coup? We've said this many times, after the election, for the first time in the history of the Republic, this Parliament went back to the election without forming a single commission. Is that a thing? Not one commission, not one commission meeting. The General Assembly didn't work two days in a row, the General Assembly worked only a few hours with a total of four agendas. Those agendas were a parliamentary election; two were the election of a member of the RTÜK; three were a declaration of war; four were talks for the Suruç commission, which was collected with the signatures of the CHP. If right after an election you have disabled the Assembly, if you have not created the commissions, if you have not run the General Assembly, if you have started a war process and then went to the elections, it is called a coup, a coup. That's why we criticize CHP. This coup would not have been such a nuisance today if they had not lingered with future talks during the coup process, but had taken an attitude to run parliament and run parliament every day. I don't have time for PYD. Don't say such big things. Believe me, you'll soon be in a state of coercion, and then you'll be embarrassed here. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0095par0266	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0096par0267	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0097par0268	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0095par0269	First Mr. Turan, then you. Mr. Turan, what is your request?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0098par0271	In his speech, Mr. Speaker has just given very false information about the law that came here last semester as our motion, and he has claimed that the money of the interpreters was not met by the government. It's wrong, I want to fix it.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0095par0272	What speaker? Mr. Tanal?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0098par0273	Tanal.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0095par0274	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0099par0276	Mr. President, the correction was coming from the floor.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0095par0277	He said, "Don't mess with me."
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0099par0278	He said, "Don't fix it." Shall we make a bet?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0095par0279	I took it as teasing. Two minutes, I promise, I promise, I won't give it to you, so let's meet at some point. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0100par0282	Mr. President, dear friends, in fact as political culture, I don't think it's right to make political moral polemics, to take the stand again, to waste time on Congress. We want to do business, we want to discuss the law, but our people are watching us. It's obvious how inappropriate this conversation was, how unnecessary it was. We have to respond to these polemics. I wish there was a sense of opposition that made us more qualified to do the work, that made us tired, that brought the law here, that we could work harder. We've been doing business for ten or three years, and they're talking. We're not saying it for nothing.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0101par0283	It's obvious what you do.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0100par0284	Last semester, he said, with the proposal of the EC PARTY government, the law that came here with its bill was given the right to defend in the native language, while the money for the interpreter was paid to the person. Yilmaz also criticised our Bronze MP. Friends, Mr. Yilmaz is a quality lawyer no one can argue with. You'll have to watch your language first. You can't argue with his degree, that's his lawyership, that's one. Second: The state will pay for it if it is submitted to the list of interpreters in that law. You know that, you should know that. But, of course, if he chooses, he'll pay for it himself. Other than that, he was an expert on the outside of the penal code, and he'll pay for it himself, of course. But what I'm saying is, if there's anything wrong with us, which there isn't. What was your group doing back then when we were trying to make things right? Did he say yes to this law? In the mother tongue, we said it was as good as mother's white milk. What did you say?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0102par0287	We said yes. We said yes.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0103par0288	We said yes. We said yes.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0100par0289	What did you say? No, no, no. You said no, no.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0102par0290	You're not telling the truth on the stand.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0100par0291	So you're going to say no to this law, you're going to create a technical argument here, and I say no. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0104par0294	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0105par0295	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0104par0296	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0106par0297	Yeah, that's enough! Is this a Tanal party?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0104par0298	Dear Love Look... Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0107par0300	I'll get Tanal out of the field.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0104par0301	Mr. Altay, talk to me, I promised you, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0107par0302	Mr. Baluken and Mr. Turan have been very insulting, especially Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0104par0303	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0107par0304	I have to answer them separately.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0108par0305	I never insulted you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0104par0306	Now, look, I can't give you four minutes, Mr. Altay. Mr. Altay, I'll give you two minutes, and you'll answer both sides in two minutes with your great ordnance, and I believe that. Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0107par0308	It's only natural that Cumhuriyet People's Party's practices disturb the ruling party, and we understand that it disturbs HDP. We, the Republican People's Party, the parliamentary democratic system...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0109par0309	It bothers you, too, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0107par0310	You're the only one I can't understand, only you in this Parliament.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0109par0311	I think it bothers you, too.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0107par0312	Yours isn't teasing, it's a ritual of bullying, and yours is being harassed.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0110par0313	Mr. Altay, you talk to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0107par0314	Yours is being harassed.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0110par0315	Mr. Sergeant, would you please... Go ahead.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0107par0317	The Republican People's Party, a party that believes in democracy, is also a party on which the 7 June election results and the 1 November election results are disqualified to respect them. Of course, if other political parties could read the results of the June 7th election as well as the Republican People's Party, they might not really need November 1st elections. But, of course, there is one other thing, Mr. President, that led to a major extortion. Using a mandate that had not been granted to him in the Constitution, the Constitution, and the state as if it were his father's farm -- there is no mistake -- has led to the process of a civil coup, as he said in Turkey. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We think it's right to participate in future talks, and today we'd do the same. We thought of nothing but the future of this nation, of this country, of this people, of this state. At the time, we said: "The results of June 7 in Turkey are this: the voters want a large-sized, compromised large coalition." Turkey needs a broad-based, high-profile government, that's the message of the voters. The voter said: "The AKP has abused our authority alone, we're taking away this license from him." So we kept the settlement door open. Politics is open-door business. And we're gonna keep doing that. Mr. Turan spoke of a qualified opposition. You're the last man to say that. When I say last man, I say last man because we're friends. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I don't know about the qualitative opposition, but...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0111par0324	You didn't see any qualitative opposition.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0107par0325	...what Turkey needs urgently is a qualified power.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0112par0326	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0107par0327	Shame on you, shame on Turkey!
tbmm-2016-02-11sit02spe0112par0329	Mr. Altay, thank you. I'm gonna take a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit03spe0112par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume our talks on the Justice and Development Party group proposal. In favour of the proposal, the second speaker is Mr. Gökcen Özdoğan Enç. Here you go, Mr. Enç.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit03spe0113par0009	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're re-organizing our working hours with today's group proposal. We're planning to legalise the law we're discussing today, which is called the AR-GE Law. 24. We recommend that the General Assembly continue its work... until the end of the talks with Bill 97. If the law fails, it's Friday, February 12th. We plan to have the General Assembly working until after the opening of the General Assembly and the end of the law talks. On this occasion, the group requests support for our proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit03spe0112par0011	Thank you. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0112par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume our talks on the Justice and Development Party group proposal. The second speaker against the proposal is Mr. Kadir Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. Lightning, since I didn't just see you in the hall, I had to take a five-minute break. I'll let you know that.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0114par0007	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0112par0008	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0114par0009	Mr. President, all my friends in the House, I salute you all. Of course, it's important that the House be closed or open to the solution of problems. We've lost dozens of people in the conflict again, unfortunately, in the last week, when the House was closed, and in the weeks before it was open. I wish them all God's mercy here. Therefore, the House must carry out its task of solutions here. However, I think everyone believes that our House must find an urgent solution to the survival of these people. As our nation's representatives, we shouldn't waste our time following some of the adjectives used here by the preachers for these people and sticking to these adjectives. For example, when a HDP deputy friend uses the words "gerilla" or "warfare," he no longer listens to what he says after that, no matter how important it is, and is met with reaction. The motions in which these words are included are sufficient to be rejected because of these words. However, if you look at the dictionary published by the Turkish Language Foundation, you will see that the war was used as a means of conflict, struggle and violence, and the gang was used as a means, and you will see that. So if you want to be satisfied when you're called the gang, you'll react when you're told the word "gerilla" -- in fact, it means that you don't express these two synonymous words together. Whether it's a war, or a fight, call it a terrorist, or a war, where our people have lost their lives. As long as this conflict continues, human and Islamic rules are underfoot, none of which are worth anything. Funerals are tortured, civilians slaughtered, even injured. No matter who does it, it's against both human and Islamic principles. In Chinar, civilians lost their lives and apologized in an action caused by the PKK (PKK). There's no natural right to expect the same apology from the government that kills civilians, and the public expects it.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0115par0013	Tell him to apologize for the cops and the soldiers.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0114par0014	Ebubekir, who inherited the Prophet's rule of war, says: (...) In his original expression: (...) So don't kill the wounded. (...) Because part of him is no longer part of him. I mean, he's lost his fighting ability. Therefore, it is against Islamic and human principles to kill anyone who has been injured. And it says again, "Ebubekir" (...) so don't take their heads off. I'm not going to name them here, but I've seen the heads of the people who were killed in a province be cut off from their bodies. Whoever does it, whoever does it, has to stand up to it. Then this House must do something urgent to ensure peace.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0116par0015	Stop, then, in front of the PKK. Why don't you stop?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0114par0016	Because it is said in the verse: "If two parties of the believers fight, let a third party find peace between them, and make peace between them. These groups, regardless of who they are, are called believers, and whoever is now a country of Islam, they are both believers. Therefore, it is the duty of the High Council to fulfill its original function. And so, whether it's the HDP or the AK PARTY or our CHP brothers, they need to pour water into this fire. I especially address my brothers and sisters from MHP. Delete the false image of you in the region and step in for peace. Look, we're afraid to give each other the greeting of God, and we're afraid that it must be repaired, that it must be normalized, that our brothers and sisters of the MHP should take initiative. We believe that killing is not the end of soldiers and police, nor the end of those who fight them, and...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0117par0020	Tell that to the PKK.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0114par0021	We also believe that there are dozens of people who will replace them when one of them dies, as do dozens of soldiers and soldiers left behind. Therefore, this needs to be taken, and the prescriptions need to be provided. When a policeman and his soldiers are martyred, their family and loved ones don't die. They throw out their motto. They say their loved ones don't die when they're killed. They say their family and loved ones don't die.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0118par0024	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0114par0025	What kind of system is this, and what kind of procedure is this that both sides say that martyrs don't die? So I'm thinking, instead of talking to each other, instead of not listening to each other, we should offer a prescription for this pressing problem. It's not over with killing; it's not over for thirty or forty years; it's not over with for thirty or forty thousand years. And I say to my brothers and sisters of the AK PARTY: "Save yourselves from the psychology of guilt. " Partly the CHP, part the MPHP, is pecking at you today because of the peace process you started, and you're bowing your head. In my opinion, you've started a process you should be proud of, and in my opinion, those who started it with you have done something to be proud of. If there is an error in the vehicle, if there is a error in the methods used, the location or solution is not to avoid discussing this problem, but to negotiate these wrong methods and vehicles, replacing the right methods and tools with the right way to end this brother's quarrel again. Otherwise, it's really worrying to see your state of mind as if you've been in a psychological handicap. Again, this process has stopped brother blood, and you need to stand behind it until the end. If there's anything wrong with the method and the vehicle, come on, let's make it up to the four parties together, and we'll stop this brother fight together. Other than that, we have no choice. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0119par0030	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Cakir...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0120par0032	Mr. President, in his speech, he accused the AK PARTI of being in guilt. I want words according to 69.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0119par0033	Here you go. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0120par0038	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Kadiri, as I said before, is a teacher who understands the sentence very well. As he presented himself to the court, he spoke of merchopti circusatin. He said, "It's old." That's exactly what the teacher said. What do you mean, being in guilt? If he's saying something like that about us, let me make a little joke, it's like his opinion of the one across from the stuffed blind. Because he thinks someone else eats the stuffing because he eats it. Dear friends, of course there's no need to say it, but we're not in the mood for guilt. On the other hand, Mr. Kadir has been using a language here since long ago. The language he uses is the language of religion. The language of religion, essentially, is a language that needs to be used very delicately, is a sadra healing language; it is a fuser, a unifying language. However, if you do not use this language carefully enough, if you do not pay attention, you will be opening extremely dangerous channels. For example, it's the sentence that Mr. Cadri gave me. While the Holy Ebubekir, the Prophet and other followers -- within the nails -- describe the treatment that must or must be done against the people in the war -- he knows very well that it is a treatment against the pagans. Now, he has spontaneously declared here as a pagan to pursue PKK members. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) So I'm just saying, when you use this language, you need to be sensitive and take care of it. Dear Hodja, whether it's a verse or an event or a summary, let's take care of it. And this language that we're using right now, it's not contributing to combining, combining. I'd expect it from the teacher what to do to end this problem. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0121par0044	Thank you, Mr. Cakir.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0122par0045	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0121par0046	You want to speak for the group?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0122par0047	There's bullying in our group.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0121par0048	On behalf of the group, you have the authority.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0123par0049	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0121par0050	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0123par0051	There's a taunt in the MHP by pecking from one side of the solution process.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0121par0052	So, in fact, the speaker made a suggestion that the MHP should pour water into the fire.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0123par0053	That's what you might have understood, Mr. President. We call it teasing. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0121par0054	He said he had to cover the wrong impression, but if you perceive it as teasing, then you're welcome, Mr. Aydın. Two minutes...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0123par0057	Mr. President, dear congressman friends, this has been an interesting defense mechanism for several days. Similar statements were used yesterday. I mean, the only rules we're gonna be committed to here are the Constitution and the Civil Code. We made our oath according to the principles we received from the Constitution and swore before the great Turkish nation that we would really stick to it. Now, from time to time, when these statements are used against the Constitution and the Civil Code are being used as defence mechanisms from 1150, from Sultan Senser, sir, from Ottoman, sir, here, from before the republic, here, Kurdistan, from time to time, giving references to Lazistan, really, a number of defence mechanisms are being developed that are contrary to intelligence, logic, knowledge. And here, look, the nationalist movement party is in position. More or less, we've always said the right, we'll continue to defend the right, under the roof of this great House. We never said the solution process was a right process. We said it was a process of dissolution. And we said, "O government, do not fall into a trap, nor enter into a bag with a serpent." There is no solution with Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). No terrorist organization ignores the cause of existence, destroys it. It's a time-consuming, it's a palliative solution, sir, it's a vaccine, it's a life-water demand, it's a life watering. But, unfortunately, you started this process and, in your own words, they gained time, sir, they acquired some regional powers, they mined our laws and districts, they mined our streets, they armed our streets. And then it turned into blood, as we put it. So yesterday, we didn't call it solution. We called it solution, betrayal. We call it that today. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0124par0061	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0125par0062	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0126par0063	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0124par0064	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0126par0065	Even if we don't call our AK PARTY orator friend, our group vice president, a taunt...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0127par0066	Don't be coy.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0126par0067	There's a situation that requires an answer.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0128par0068	Hodja, don't be silly. Say it.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0126par0069	It's kind of a tease.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0129par0070	You want to make a statement?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0128par0071	Don't be shy, don't be coy.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0126par0072	I, in particular, have to answer for that terminology I'm using.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0129par0073	If you want to make a statement, I'll give you my word on your position.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0126par0074	I'll explain.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0130par0075	There's bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0129par0076	Don't make fun of me.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0126par0077	Because of the bullying...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0131par0078	He said it wasn't the right language.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0132par0079	There's bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0131par0080	Don't be coy...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0133par0081	There's a lot of obvious teasing.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0134par0082	On the stand for bullying, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0135par0083	Okay, here you go. Two minutes... It's very popular to talk on this bench.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0136par0086	Teacher, I enjoy listening to you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0137par0087	Thank you, thank you. Yes, I salute you all again. For one thing, I've never used anything that would lead to misunderstandings, such as "mumin" on the other side or "mumin" on the other side. I said two faithful sides, if you'll notice. For the soldiers and the police, I also said that they were meant for those who clashed with them, and I said in the verse they were meant for them. As for those who are slain, and the angels, and those who are at variance with them, they perform the prayer.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0138par0092	It's not moving.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0137par0093	On top of the police and soldiers who were killed, the Qurans on their bodies, the Yasinites, the pilgrims, are being downloaded, read, and over them, the same practice is being done on their bodies, and on their graves.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0138par0094	The PKK flag is hanging.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0137par0095	So I did not enter into any form of terminology, as did the polytheists or the believers. I've spent years in this business, and I know how to use terminology, and I understand verses and events. I studied seven years in Kurdistan madrases, studied theology, did master's and Ph.D. in theology. I think this terminology would be much more useful if you paid attention to it and did what you had to do.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0139par0097	Hajji, who are you dealing with?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0137par0098	There's never a category like that. Oh, if you're going to say in terms of example, the practices of the Prophet and his successors are always an example to us, but from Emevis, we don't accept a social justice-free, thralling, courting mentality. This is not in harmony with Islam; it is also against Islam. But the practices of the Holy Prophet -- the military -- and the four caliphs -- have human universal values for us. We don't always see anything wrong with saying it, and we won't get tired of it, and I'm going to keep talking to you here until we figure out a solution to this problem.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0140par0100	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0137par0101	Whether or not you tease us, we'll continue to say it in a real way.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0140par0102	Mr. Lightning, thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0137par0103	I also stand by what I say about our friends and brothers. I certainly believe that they should be involved in this process in a positive way.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0140par0104	Mr. Lightning, thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0137par0105	Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0141par0107	Just tell me who was responsible for the parable of the prophet and Abu Bekir.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0140par0108	Mr. Cakir...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0137par0109	Okay.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0140par0110	Please take your seat.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0142par0111	Who's in charge?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0140par0112	Mr. Cakir, if you have any requests, do this to me, not to the person, please.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0142par0113	No, sir.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0140par0117	I will now submit to your votes the motion of the Justice and Development Party Group under Article 19 of the Civil Code: those who accept it... those who do not accept it... are accepted. Members of the MPs, Mr. Selin Sayek Böke, MP of İzmir, has reached our presidency on 11/2/2016 concerning his resignation from the Plan and Budget Commission. For your information. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Eskişehir MP Utku Çakırözer has been nominated for 1 membership in the Republican People's Party Group, which is vacant in the Plan and Budget Commission. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume our talks with the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions in the 1st ranked 1st place, where we will continue our talks with the Constitutional Bill and Industry, Trade, Energy, Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report. Commission? Here. Government? Here. According to Article 91, yesterday's merger, Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul and his friends voted on Article 2 of the first article of the bill, which was considered the main law under Article 91. To remind you of the motion, I'll have it reread and vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the Law Bill 97 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken (Diyarbakir) and his friends I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0143par0142	Mayor, why... isn't there a speaker or something?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0140par0143	He spoke yesterday, we stayed at the vote yesterday.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0143par0144	Okay.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0140par0145	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Article 2 of the Law shall be changed into Article 2 of the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, which is currently held. Mevlüt Karakaya (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Adana MP Mevlüt Karakaya will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0144par0156	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 2 of the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, and on amendments to Article 2 of the Constitutional Law. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the 2nd article of the bill we have is recommended to edit the first joke (j) on Article 2 of Article 2 of the 278 of TÜBITAK Law (TİBITAK Law). With this change, you know, the Law, which was issued in 2004, was given the authority to grant scholarships to students who received higher education from all public institutions and private institutions to the Association of Higher Education Loans and Homes. As a result of this practice, which was implemented by the AKP in 2004, our students were prevented from receiving help and support from two separate institutions, and our students who received an achievement scholarship from TÜBITAK were automatically cut off from YURKUR. For 12 years, AKP governments have punished students who received a scholarship to success. This wrong policy has prevented our high-school students from building and developing projects. In addition to being encouraged, research development has become an area for our students to avoid. Twelve years late, though, we find that giving up this wrong practice to be positive. We support the provision of the bill to support our needy students, to also reward our highly successful students. But the point is that aid and support given by both YURTKUR and TÜBITAK must be distributed in accordance with the principles of justice and justice. Test scandals during the past Justice and Development Party administrations have created the perception of the order of frauds, frauds, lawless peoples, not to be successful and honest with our young people in the first place. And the worst part about that was that our young people's confidence in the government, in politics, was that it was gone. The aid must be given to students who really need it, and the awards to those who deserve it, and the pursuit must be done with absolute certainty. Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, investments in science, IT, technology, RD have been relatively low in developing countries in our country for 14 years. Therefore, new Turkish brands are not created, and our current brands are not recognised in global markets. We, the National Movement Party, support investments in science, technology. In addition, we have repeatedly said that supply policies of all public institutions, especially for the defence industry, must be based on the AR-GE, so I would like to rephrase that we find the bill positive but inadequate. The development of our country, the laws made for its well-being, the strategies created, the plans prepared for action are not on paper, and they are to be implemented immediately, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0145par0161	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 3: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the term "three years" in Article 3 of Law Bill 97 shall be changed to "four years." İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "in the seven years" in Article 3 of Law Bill 1/540 shall be changed to "in five years." Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan Celal Adan Mustafa Mit Ruhi Ersoy Nuri Okutan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and Industrial Engineering, Industrial Engineering, Industrial Engineering, Architecture, Architecture, Psychology, and Proposals for Admission of the First Amendment (y) to Article 3 (i.e. Kazim lion Tahsin Tarhan Didem Engin İrfan Bakr Akif Ekici Tur Star Planter Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Manisa MP Tur Star Biçer will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Biceter.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0146par0192	Mr. President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my remarks, I'd like to share with you a visual on hepatitis C.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0147par0195	Mr. President, is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0148par0196	Mr. Bicer, I gave you my word that you can express what's said there, it's not understood at all.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0149par0197	We don't understand anything, Congressman.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0150par0198	We don't understand.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0148par0199	So I won't be able to process it.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0151par0200	That's not the way it is, Mayor, and we don't understand.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0152par0201	If you could raise the volume, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0148par0202	It's loud enough as it is. It's much better if you tell him, I promised you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0153par0203	Let's hear it for you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0154par0204	We want to listen, we don't understand.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0153par0205	We'd like to hear from you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0155par0206	I'll tell you, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0156par0207	Mr. Biçer, please...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0157par0208	There's no such procedure.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0155par0209	I'd love it if you could listen.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0158par0210	We want to listen to you, we don't understand him.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0159par0211	We want to hear from you, we want to hear from you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0160par0212	I don't understand what you're doing, and I don't know if it's necessary to process it.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0161par0213	Look, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0160par0214	You can say it, there's no need to play it, I gave you my word.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0161par0215	I'm talking in the video. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0162par0217	We'd like to hear from you, as speakers.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0163par0218	There is no such procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0164par0219	You could have spoken verbally here, or you could have given it to me in writing, Mr. Bicer.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0162par0221	We'd rather listen to the preacher than the machine.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0164par0222	Mr. Biçer, please...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0165par0223	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0162par0224	Mr. President, we don't want to hear the machine. We want to hear the preacher.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0165par0225	It's... it's ending.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0166par0226	Mr. President, there is no such procedure in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0167par0227	Mr. Bicer, if you'd be so kind as to express yourself verbally, I have given you my word. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0168par0229	Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, health policy in our country is moving rapidly towards a point that destroys individuals, then family, and then every part of society financially and spiritually. Among those I count is a serious number of hepatitis C patients and people around them. The new generation of antiviral drugs used in treatment Hepatitis C was licensed by the Ministry of Health in 2015, but is still not listed as payment for Social Security. There are 35,000 registered hepatitis C patients in our country who have been ignored and are growing in numbers every day. This number may seem too small for you, but the pain is too big to explain in numbers. There are around 500,000 hepatitis C patients living in our country without knowing what's wrong with them. That means that 500 thousand people with hepatitis C can develop liver cirrhosis and liver cancer. There's another dramatic aspect of hepatitis C's disease that is completely isolated by society after the discovery of the disease. The situation that has become a social problem has had a negative effect on many families and divorces arise. Hepatitis C patients can't move freely in their homes, in their workplaces, in school, in the street. They're fighting a battle against friends, spouses, children, and other individuals in the life of the day. That's why they don't realize they're at risk of infecting too many people. That's what's causing the disease to spread in our country and the problem to grow. It's called a new generation of antivirals. It's a box of 40 grand. You have to use 3 cans of medicine for a full collection of drugs, totaling the cost of the treatment is $120,000. Social Security doesn't pay for these drugs, but it pays for treatment when the disease comes to a liver transplant or a stage of liver cancer. What's tragic is that the Social Security Foundation pays $110,000 in liver transplants, plus $20,000 per year per patient, and $150,000 in liver cancer total. The Ministry of Health and Social Security is looking at our citizen's right to health with a complete savings scale. I'm here to address our Minister of Health, Mr. Muezzinoglu, and those who run the government's health policy. Without further delays and additional regulatory barriers, 500,000 hepatitis, including the sophosbuvir... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...has to act urgently to ensure that he gets access to the other new drugs.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0167par0232	Thank you, Mr. Biceter.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0168par0233	Instead of boring bureaucratic board meetings, which have kept thousands of patients waiting for months and years, these vital drugs should be paid by the government.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0167par0234	Mr. Biçer, thank you, your time is up.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0168par0235	My regards to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0169par0237	Mr. Orator, why don't you tell us all about it until you play us some instruments?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0168par0238	If you'd been kind enough to listen, the video was my voice, and the visuals were more dramatic. Thank you so much for listening.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0170par0240	Thank you, Mr. Biceter. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "in the seven years" in Article 3 of the main Law Bill (1/540) is changed to "in five years." Spiritual Ersoy (Osmania) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Ruhi Ersoy will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0171par0253	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we find this debate on RD to be a good work first. While we have a positive view of this, we will have some advice, which, by our side, is importantly requested by our group. In particular, our Minister of Science, Industry and Technology, our head of TÜBITAK, are here, and the science policy in Turkey is equal to positive science and technology. Science is also social science. With the mind of the 19th century of positivism, positive science is highly developed, but social science has failed to develop its own style because it imitates positive science methodologically. In Turkey, Turkish universities today have some very memorable, beautiful chapters, but we can't get healthy answers when we study statistics on what problem did Turkey solve its thesis, academic studies, and outputs? Science becomes wisdom and remains limited on shelves, giving titles to academic and scientific workers, but serving and returning to action is a major problem. So, as of today, we propose to our Minister of Science and Technology and our head of TÜBITAK that, simultaneously with positive science, social sciences can be able to create solutions to social problems and demands within the science programme. If you look at the work that developed countries do -- we have social scientists who work there on various occasions -- see how they use anthropology, folklore, Turkology, and what kind of culture program they do with it to determine world politics, imperial policies. Another thing is that we have a problem with profiles of people who are generally dedicated in society to reveal the ground, the environment, and the scientist profile for science. Yesterday, Mr. President recommends that friends who go on duty to have dedicated human stories remain in the region, but the policy of the political programme and the government is bringing with it an environment in which even those who work academically are encouraged to turn corners and be contractors and struggle to become rich. So it's not enough for you to take the children of people who have produced value into your political lists and move them to Parliament, but to bring their scientific work, their art and philosophy into a program that can transform their debates into political language. Yes, we saw the opening of social science schools, the establishment of a social science-based university as good business, including naming them. But, what happened? There was a social science university in this country. What happened to social science high schools? All of this country's smart, hard-working, graded children were at a point where they could choose science high school. Now, we also think that in this Parliamentary graph and Turkish politics, in the state's mind, the way intelligent children approach issues with interdisciplinary approaches in social science will do much better at the point of solving our country's problems, and especially in this law, we consider the withdrawal from seven years to three years as a good study for young scientists. But we need to express to students of 50/d who take initiative from university administrations and do academic studies by not leaving the continuation of efforts to improve the 50/d problem that exists at universities to be provided for themselves. And let's not be shy, it's not me, let's not make the distinction, let's invite people who have a scientific buildup, especially a social scientific build-up, who produce values -- not from you, but from their opinions -- to take advantage of them. It reminds of the existence of very valuable nationalist intellectuals who do aesthetics and fine work in this sense of Turkish-Islam civilization, that there is no other Turkey, but the National Movement Party is always ready to serve the nation without a taassup, but thinks it's far beyond the scope of political abuse, he says.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0172par0259	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the three-year term of the Law Bill 97, which is included in Article III, shall be changed into four years. Behcet Yıldırım (Adıyaman) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Adıyaman MP Behçet Yıldırım will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0173par0272	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Mayor, in the meantime, I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0172par0274	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0173par0275	You're very lucky because you've had a good treatment, and a few years from now, you won't be able to get this beautiful treatment.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0172par0276	It's beautiful...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0173par0277	You can't get treatment, you can't get this good treatment because the quality in medicine is getting lower.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0172par0278	No one gets sick, no one gets in trouble.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0173par0279	Inshallah, inshallah. Yeah, well, at this rate, I'm afraid it's going to be hard to raise good doctors, especially in universities, research hospitals, public hospitals, where quality is getting lower and lower. The third article I have been promised is: "After Doctoral Research: the study of doctorates, dentistry, medicine, and veterinary expertise in medicine and art is a three-year-period study at a higher education institution over the course of seven years. Now, the essence of this is based on the NGO, my friends. Each section has a dam in the shape of a patch that we are constantly critical of. Let me start by saying this last sentence: Let us lift up the Constitution of September 12th, the Supreme Election Board, instead of a free, modern, human rights constitution. I say we open the way for both the SEC and our universities, our scientists, our university employees, students, and science, to expand their horizons. I'm saying everyone should be free to do their science, do their research, defend their opinions. The universities, previously semi-independent, are now run by one hand. Presidential elections are being held; regardless of merit, regardless of the vote he received, those who are close to power are appointed as chancellors. For example, a real scientist who received the most votes in the two years of the presidential election at İstanbul University has not been appointed, although he received the most votes twice, and others have been appointed in his place. It's just an example. The candidates for the presidency are pursuing torpedoes to gain favor with the court and the power, and when elected, they become subjects of power and court to strengthen their position. Last month, more than 100 students at Malatya Inönu University were suspended from school by the arbitrary application of the Rectorship of Peace, Brotherhood, Freedom, and walking in the name of the press. Again, these monarchs appointed by the court make positive distinctions with those who are close to their own mentality, so many professors who are unable to agree with their rectors are tired of various pressures, leaving their jobs, and our precious scientists are forced to go to a university either in the private sector or to ask for it. A scientist is the mirror of society. Not only should he be content with his own major, but he should be reactive to social events. With the consciousness of being an enlightened human being, he must act in the name of the people, in the name of the community, to shed light on the public. I say that both power and society should take advantage of these ideas, of these science nests. But, what do we do, or rather, what does power do? In order to get out of this chaotic environment in our country right now, he puts our academics, who are calling for unity, unity, brotherhood, peace, the end of the conflicting environment, face-to-face with a lynch campaign, threaten, insult, even put an end to their business. In the 21st century, we face a political will that ignores scientists, that I know everything, that I decide. With that understanding, how do we make a modern, free, new constitution? Whatever the palace says. I'm not sure how we're going to make a pluralistic constitution with a ruling that doesn't question, doesn't criticize the majority of Congress, and I hope I'm wrong. Yesterday, we were going to remove these articles of law, but our fellow lawmakers who are here to say yes or no are called to the General Kurula SMS. I think there's been a mistake with these SMS last night, they couldn't come here themselves, we're discussing the laws that should have been discussed yesterday. Here's to the distortion of my profession: we're looking at medical schools, basic sciences are down, there's not enough grown-ups, there's not enough staff; there's no cadavers, there's no models, there's training, medical schools like mushrooms. In Adıyaman, for example, there is no infrastructure, there is no doctor, there is not a lecturer, there is no doctor in the basic sciences we call a preclinic; instead it is maintained by veterinarians and biologists. In the children's hospital where I've worked for 17 years, 1 professor, 3 side branch experts and 3-4 assistants are being tried to manage it. I'm running out of time, so I'm gonna have to move on. The Health Department budget was discussed yesterday. If we can't send ambulances to dozens of injured civilians in the basement of a building in Cizre, what should I do with this budget if we can't open a corridor for volunteers? I pay my respects to everyone.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0174par0291	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0175par0293	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0174par0294	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial. Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 4 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "first three" in Article 4 of Law Bill 1/540 shall be changed to "first five." Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan Zühal Topcu Celal Adan Ruhi Ersoy Mustafa Mit Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "first to enter the first three" in Article 4 of the Common Law Bill 97 shall be changed to "first to it." İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Hüda Kaya Behçet Yıldırım Erdal Atash Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to add and propose that the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, rank 97, shall be added after "the first third of the First Amendment" in Article 4 of the Law Charter, under which there will be amendments to certain Laws and Laws. Kazim lion Tahsin Tarhan Didem Engin Does the Commission agree with the reading motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Isparta MP İrfan Bakr will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Copper.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0176par0329	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before we begin with my words, we've all experienced the sadness, the pain of giving nine martyrs in the last two days. Not only do fire fall on the main pits, but in our hearts. To our soldiers, police and officers who were killed in Şırnak, Cizre and Sur, I wish them God's mercy, and my condolences to their grieving families. I have made a pledge on my own behalf regarding Article 4 of the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions 97 and the Amendment to Decisions of Some Laws and Laws. First of all, I want to thank my friends for their efforts to prepare the bill, to work for their country, to work for no other purpose, to take a step further in education, science, and knowledge. There's no envy in any service we've ever had, but we're all working for our country, at least that's what I think. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to point out that we will be in the face of every positive effort for the Republic of Turkey, everything we see negative for our nation. As for the legislation that is about to be passed, first of all, Mr. Minister Fikri Beye must be thanked for his constructive and compromised attitude at the Commission meetings. However, two or three articles of the 33-point bill -- if I remember correctly -- have been adopted in the Commission by unanimous vote, while others have ended up in accordance with the will of the ruling. We'd like to agree on all the articles, settle the deal. I'm sure we'll have much more positive results for our country then. Hopefully, the decisions that will be made for our country from now on will not only be taken into account by power, but by the opposition. Because then, believe me, there will be consequences for the benefit of all our citizens, not of a certain population. Especially in these times when we need unity, unity, that's all that matters. In the development of a country, in the growth of its economy, depending on the growth of its prosperity, in today's conditions, the importance of R&D is inevitable. The reasonable, predictive investments to the AR-GE will surely be greatly rewarded. Both the public's spending time and effort on private sector RD investments, high technology and branding, increasing incentives for these investments will lead to significant steps in our country's employment, production, industrialisation and service sector. We, the Republican People's Party, are aware of the benefits these investments will bring to our country as a result of logical policies, and we are ready to do whatever duty we have to do. In our election declaration, it is an indication of our importance to increase the incentives needed for production, design, and RD. Besides, in all the policies we've developed as the Republican People's Party, we've always taken care of being realistic and predictable. We have made no false promises to our people, no false promises, no promises from reality or reach. We argue that all investments in the field of RD should be permanent and that the benefits of the university-industrial-government co-operation must be implemented in order to be sustainable. Because to produce science and technology, you have to have a well-functioning educational system, and in this system, you have to grow individuals who will produce science. Yes, valuable lawmakers participate as our group in most of the issues in Law Bill 97 that are being discussed, but we can actually see that there is no real, structural reform. As a result, it is unlikely that our country will be able to enter global competition in science and technology in the coming years. Because when we look at the recent past, it's not credible that with this bill, RD spending will be 3% of the national income. In the last year, RD spending has only been 1.02 per cent of its national income. To do so, the goals need to be realistic, accessible, and predictable. It's not just about this bill, it's a goal that has to be made in all matters. I'd like to tell you a statement from the European Union Report of 2015: there are many public support programmes conducted in Turkey by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology and its subsidiaries, KOSGEB and Economics, Development and Finance Ministrys. However, such programmes are not in a comprehensive framework. In order to increase that scope, we must support science, education, energy, industry, trade, trade, farmers, farmers, entrepreneurs, students, we must encourage them. While we're on the subject of encouragement, the fact that our Isparta is in the 2nd area of encouragement leads to the decline of industry, trade, energy and tourism potential and lateness in development. However, the location of the province of Isparta's trade, energy, transport, industry and tourism is good enough. However, lack of adequate incentives has led to a reduction in investments. Every day we lose hope in industry, commerce, tourism. We demand that Isparta be transferred to the 4th or 5th place of encouragement immediately. We also asked about this as a written question motion. But we haven't received a response from the relevant ministry yet. And I want to draw attention to that, and I want you to be more sensitive and equal in that regard. Already, I wish our country and all our citizens the best of the current bill of law, and my respects.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0177par0342	Thank you, Mr. Copper. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and change the declaration of the first entry into the first three of the 97th Article of the Common Law Bill to be replaced as the first one to enter it. İdris Bauken (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. İstanbul MP Erdal Atash will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0178par0355	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as in the entire bill, there is no attempt to basically improve education and research, improve development, solve his problems. And there's only one way of looking at it in terms of improvement and small support. Instead of simply solving existing problems in education, bringing radical solutions to them, at the same time opening the way for this society in research, study and development, there is an understanding of the first two, three people supporting and promoting them. This cannot help to improve society, in research, study and scientific development as well as in education. In the event of continuing this inequality, which is inequal, inequality, in our geography, the people who are conducting scientific work will be blocked, and will have caused these people to leave this country with a significant amount of brain drainage. In the field of education, the benefits or support that will be offered to these three general contestants, in fact in our geography, which has the basis for solving the problems of all students -- all people in the field of education -- are unfortunately not being operated by the authorities in any way, but by students and educators, the inequality is being maintained. The exam system, for example, is an important problem. Instead of developing laws in which all people can study without testing, without money, without education, instead of eliminating them, the political pressure that exists on universities, on research units, is one of the consequences of the Constitution of the 12 September Fascists, which is the institution, the NGO, instead of eradication of 2 or 3 people. It's not just that. The existing laws do not apply in the field of education, with money, with tests, with other obstacles, as well as the existing laws. So there are major injustices in this framework, too. In order to solve three people's problems, to support them, to advance them, in this period of time when they are being told or wanted to be developed, hundreds of thousands of students in Kurdish provinces cannot enter exams, cannot register themselves in higher education, or even if they take these kinds of tests, they are left out of study, out of research. Not only that, let's say these three people were supported, and these people were gone, they became scientists, and there are important problems at this point. The academics either can't speak, or when they bring up the smallest issue against the problems of this country, they face jail, assault, oppression, lynching, blasphemy. In such a reality, there are three people supported, millions of students, thousands of academics left out of the question. Likewise, this overall policy in research and study issues is based on the creation of educated people, which can only solve the needs of a small capital fraction. Almost all of the training field is somehow converted into a Rant area and education is being paid for and people are being exploited by people's money in Turkey and their right to education is being declared. We can settle this by bringing up the issue of free, scientific, native language education. In this country, with just a fraction of the income invested in the military, universities will be developed, and all the research institutes in this country will be able to benefit from education as well as free education in equal frames, and in the development of geography and humanity in the world, in scientific developments, in studies, in which people will be more active. As long as this is not done, these arrangements will not go beyond a distraction that this Assembly has made only on the basis of avoidance. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0179par0363	Thank you, Mr. Paperman.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0180par0364	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0179par0365	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first three of the first five be changed to the first five, in Article 4 of the original Law Bill (1/540). Zuhal Topcu (Ankara) and his friends Does the Commission agree with the reading motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu will talk on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0181par0378	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the investment in human beings needs to be accepted as the most important investment. Maybe we accept it in languages, but there's not a lot of indications that we're going to accept it in mind and action. We want to talk about it right now. Because it's an investment in the person who determines a country's future and makes it sustainable, but when we look at 14 years of power, we can see that the student's name is no longer there, that it's not pronounced; we can see that the teacher's name is not there, that the education system can't be mentioned. Where do we see this? Now, every day, we come up with these results from both the training and the performance and the rhetoric about education, because the results of the education are no longer possible to compensate in other areas. Because you're looking, we can see that in violence, in social violence, in violence in education, in violence against women, really statistical numbers are increasing significantly. We're all witnesses to how people were destroyed in drug use, how those kids were destroyed. If people were really invested, if education was human-oriented, the situation would be much different, and it's an investment in the person who can improve a country and continue to develop it, but in the education system, we're all witnesses to how students are being destroyed. We'd like to give you an example of your college exams. In 2010, the average Turkish average was 21.5, and in 2015, this was reduced to 15.5, so they did 15 questions correctly. Mathematical average 11, 2010, 5.2. If you look at the average social sciences, in 2010, 12, 2015, 10 averages. Now, then we ask: What human-oriented education are you talking about? So what teacher-oriented education are you talking about, and what future are you talking about? Right now, especially when we look at the current state of those TEOG exams, where students are forced to enter, where parents are miserable. In a system where questions are stolen, questions are wrongly prepared, you can talk about what talented students, what added value production. Classes are now empty in the 11th grade, or, I don't know, state-of-the-art, state-of-the-art, state-of-the-art, state-of-the-art, state-of-the-art, state-of-the-art, state-of-the-art, state-of-the-art, state-of-the-art, state-of-the-art. Now that education is over, students have moved to basic high schools, go to open schools. So what quality are you talking about, what value are you talking about? East Anatolia is currently out of education. In our time, we kept shouting from these platforms, and we said, "East is going to Asia Minor." Terrorists are sabotaging it specifically. You can't read the Istiklal March in schools. Especially terrorists who go to schools and promote terrorism. The training is over. The so-called Kurdish schools have been opened. When we said, "We have no news here, Mr. Minister of National Education." How do you explain the current situation? There's gotta be somebody responsible for all this. He's got to answer for it. We get up in the morning and we change it, we're doing security policies now, we're fighting terrorism, we're going to do it until it's over. There's no point in saying that anymore. You had to do it on time, and if you didn't, you have to answer. Almost 3-4 martyrs come every day. A son doesn't grow up easy. So, please, please, from now on, we won't be able to tolerate a single martyr. Alas, the boys are leaving. The measures must be taken at once. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0182par0383	Thank you, Mr. Topcu. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 5 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to change the term "approvement" in Article 5/540 of the Law on Supporting Investigative Research and Development Actions, which is currently being discussed in Article 5/540. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Muharrem Varlı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Mehmet Erdoğan Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, which are currently listed in the following way, to the amendment of Article 5/5/4 of the Law Bill and Article 58/47 of Law No. 97. "k) As part of university industry co-operation, the revenues obtained through research and development, design and innovation projects and activities are collected in a separate account of the return capital business. No cuts will be made from these revenues, including cuts, according to the joke "b." In this case, 85 per cent of the income paid to the professor in office is paid to the lecturer, regardless of any tax cuts. The amount of income to be paid will be decided by regulations between the professor and those involved in the project or the people involved in the operation. The remaining amount is used for the work mentioned in the (b) joke. In accordance with the application of the professor, the project and activities that will be considered within this scope are decided by permission of the university board." Kazim Arslan Tahsin Tarhan İrfan Bakır Orhan Sarıbal Zeynel Emre Akif Ekici The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Baluken Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Mahmut Toğrul Hüda Kaya Kadri Yıldırım Does the Commission participate in the same motions? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. The first speaker on the proposals is Bitlis MP Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0183par0415	Mr. President, on behalf of my party and my group, I have taken a pledge on the 5th Amendment to the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, and on the Amendment to Decisions of Some Law and Law. Dear lawmakers will meet in a separate account of the return capital business, which has been achieved due to research development, design and innovation projects and university industrial co-operation activities. No cuts will be made from these revenues. 85 per cent of the income paid to the faculty in this area will be paid to the lecturer, without any tax cuts. The remaining amount will be used for the work specified in the law. In accordance with the application of the professors, there is a declaration from the university board of directors that will be evaluated in this scope. Here, we support breakthroughs in university and industrial cooperation, and we find it important and necessary for those who have also graduated from universities to integrate into business and life and to solve the long-term unemployment problem. But we are also opposed to the turning of universities into trading houses and the metamorphisation of educational areas with the aims of commercializing information. The metamorphosis of education services generally leads to the transformation of the content of education; the complete destruction of scientific freedom, institutional autonomy and democratic functioning. Unfortunately, we have the misfortune of being a country that is not allowed to live by autonomous research institutions. Universitys are areas of free thinking and where innovative ideas need to be formed as part of research and development. The universities, which operate as part of the state and its institutions, are in many areas, rather than in practice, where only theoretical information is alive, and in practice, completely lacking. First, the application areas must be opened in the size of the university and its original development. Today, in particular, the AKP government has extended private capital from the day it came to power to all areas of society, supporting, protecting, and expanding private capital. Government understanding and private sectors, which care more about business than production, rather than public, have created a country where economic fluctuations in the global dimension can be felt too much. In particular, there are all kinds of labour exploitations with neoliberal policies, while at the same time making every effort and effort due to the development of the world markets. In view of the conceptual attributes of research and development, the most essential qualities for research are to provide a free, autonomous and critical environment; development is the result after the allocation of this system. In particular, government and officials prevent all original and critical ideas from being born at universities and universities, starting with upper secondary schools. In today's Turkey, any idea is perceived as separatism. We've seen it clearly in the academic example. Another issue should be the spread of the efficient and visual-based system to begin with in primary school for this development. In particular, however, in the cities under lawless curfews, practice education is seen not even given. Does the government support science, intelligence and its own development by pulling teachers out of the area? Will economic and technological advances be created at a global level by cutting off even the right to education among the most basic rights? Or will people trapped in a basement of violence be allowed to trade information by abandoning them to their own destinies? My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0184par0424	Thank you, Mr. Bagpipe. Mr. Orhan Sarıbal will now speak on the other motion of the same nature. Here you go, Saribal.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0185par0428	Mr. President, I bow to the memory of my friends who were first murdered in front of Gar. On October 10, 2015. Yesterday was their fourth month, but no study has been done, no legal attempt has been made. Again, of course, our poor children continue to die in the dirty war, while civilians are unfortunately victims. I'd like to share with you once again that in order for this dirty war to end, we must raise our voices in favor of more peace, and that the responsibility is in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Of course, the Justice and Development Party, as in every field, has chosen a way to manage the situation with a pool that will be obtained with such a private sector or with different studies, instead of giving professors an honorable, human-like salary. Of course, the professors should be paid more; of course, let them live better. But I would like to share with you the outcome of your 13 years of support for research and development. Yeah, it's been on the agenda for a few days, and our people can't eat red meat. The minister has made a statement. For thirteen years, you've built the agricultural sector, the farmer, the peasant, a means of the free market, you've made trade, but when you can't solve the problem of red meat, where is the free market? He made a statement, saying: "Thirty-two liras each, 34 liras per bird. If the carkas cut at 23.3 lira... You know what that means? This is the part called karkas after an animal was slaughtered. Take a good look at this: there's bone in it, there's nerve in it, there's vein in it, so there's products that shouldn't be put down. When you remove the loss of bone, vein, nerve, and heat from evaporation, there's a little bit of meat for a human, healthy food. You have to add 30 percent to get this meat out of that 23.3 lira. Do you know what that means? That's $31.1. So, to give us healthy meat, the butcher has to sell this meat for 31.1 lira. And if you want a bird's nest, it's gonna cost you $35. So, since the Minister is not of agricultural origin, he probably doesn't know what carcasis meat is, since his upper management probably doesn't have a knowledge of agriculture. Karkas fires 20 percent when you remove the bone from the flesh; when you remove the heat loss, it fires 2 percent; when you remove the vein, the nerve, etc., it fires 1 percent. Come on, you want to take down that 8 percent of the VAT you don't download, you add up to 31 percent of the extra cost to the town. So you don't get to pay $32 for the meat, $34 for the meat. But you can give it to me somewhere, which you've been privatizing for decades, and that's when you can give it to Angus meat or imported meat that you've brought from the outside. Other than that, you don't have a chance to sell this meat in a normal butcher's shop because you're the ones who created the problem, and you don't have a chance to solve the problem. Let us share with you what you've done in the last ten years: you've brought 300,000 tons of meat, 300,000 tons of meat, kakas. You've brought 4 million living animals, 2,2 million small ones, 1 million 800,000 cattle, and you've paid 4 billion dollars for it. Here's your RD, here's your budget, here's your university, here's your development! Yeah, the people who created the problem can't solve the problem. Dear Minister, I warn you from here, instead of privatizing mercurities, he can improve animalism by providing brute bait. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0186par0437	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0187par0439	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit04spe0186par0440	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0186par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision to vote for the two proposals of the same nature on Article 5 of Law Bill 97. Now, I'm going to put the same motions back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. We'll resume the talks of Bill 97. The commission is here. The government is here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to change the term "approvement" in Article 5/540 of the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, which is currently in session. Mevlüt Karakaya (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0188par0014	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0186par0015	Adana MP Mevlüt Karakaya will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Congressmans, please remain silent.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0189par0019	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a promise on the 5th article of the proposed bill. In this article, a bench is added to Article 2547 of Law 58, and it is attempted to increase university-industrial cooperation, and it is intended to provide tax exemptions to professors for their fees -- research development projects, design and innovation projects -- for this purpose. So the goal here is to export information produced in universities through target rotating capitals, but you have to ask the question: where is the production, where is it, is there anyone left to produce it in Turkey? These days, we all follow the subject of meat, meat production, and meat market prices. In other areas, there's no production left in other sectors because there really is a perky economy. No one is unfortunately involved in a study that will increase production or further increase production by making RD, because when we look at 14 years of economic policies that have been implemented when we can get rich from the development runt, we see that there are capital transfers, and when we look at the results of these, producing for the production of parts, making RDs is really a wasteful effort. First of all, we need to fix this runt economy, the perk economy, somehow. Dear MPs, see, in 2002, when we looked at the distribution of wealth in Turkey, the 1% had 38 per cent of the wealth -- 99 per cent of which had 62 per cent -- rose from 38 per cent to 54 per cent in 2014. There is a serious development in the distribution of wealth against the community, a worsening of a more accurate term. And when we put that aside, look, when we look at the bill that was put in front of us -- I read the committee reports, I looked at Mr. Secretary's statements there -- we can't see the statements that the government is planning to do, we can't see what they're aiming at. Mr. Secretary, the lawmakers are saying that the cuts in the clause (b) joke will be removed, and 85% of the income paid to the professors involved in this scope will be paid to the professor without any tax cuts. It's all badly written, I'm afraid. I don't know how it's been written, whether or not it's been taken from universities, but in the course of the government's study of these legislative activities, unfortunately, I don't think I should touch what they've made a characteristic of. I also think it's time to put an end to practice. So is the commission work, so is the General Assembly. The expression here is, in fact, a statement that can be fulfilled, a statement that can achieve its purpose, its purpose, and its goal. It's not written right, it's wrong. I've had a couple of spinners read it today, and they all say it doesn't meet the purpose, or even means different. For him, here, there must be a payable statement. Otherwise, 85 per cent of the total income will not be paid to the faculty, or the different rates will be determined by universities, and 85 per cent of the amount that will be paid to the professor will go to a tax-free application. When there's a chance to get in the way of this, at least it's... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...there is no need to have the word "payment" in the same sentence, the two "students" in the same sentence, on the one hand or on the other hand, to have the expression "responsible." I thank you all very much, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0190par0030	Thank you, too. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 6 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the Law on Supporting the main research and development activities (1/540) in the "and speciality technology development areas" referred to in Article 6 of the Law Act on Changes in Some Laws and Laws. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Seaman Hatay...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0191par0038	We're withdrawing the motion.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0190par0039	The motion has been drawn. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, rank 97, and the introduction of the declaration of the Law shall be added before the declaration in Article 6 of the Law Charter 6 and in the area of special technology development." Kazim lion Tahsin Tarhan Didem Engin İrfan Bakır Akif Ekici Ali Özcan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 6 of Law Bill 97, which is currently being discussed in the following way. MADDE 6-25/10/1984, and Article 20 of Article 3065 of Add Value Tax Act 3065 (1) are "except for the value of delivery and service in the technology development area under the Law for Technology Development and in the area for special technology development, in which entrepreneurs are operating except for income or institutional tax in these areas." has been changed in the form. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mehmet Emin Adıyaman will speak on the motion, İğdır MP. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0192par0061	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, of course, RD studies are basically the most important stage of innovation. Thus, the production process of goods or products and the market, the most important, or even the starting point of the market, no doubt, needs to be created by the collection of information, which is the primary stage of goods or products or that methane. Of course, the areas where knowledge is concentrated and formed are undoubtedly the universities. So, in general, as all orators say, the education levels of universities in Turkey are clear. But I would especially like to point out that the conditions that Iğdır University is currently under are not at an educational level in accordance with the purpose of the law brought to peace under these RD studies. Dear friends, the University of Iğdır is a college founded in 2008. As of its geographical position, Iran, Azerbaijan and Armenia are a rare province with three countries next door. The university established in our province still hasn't dealt with infrastructure problems, physical problems such as buildings, since 2008. More importantly, this university does not have enough qualified faculty and is subject to a different practice with similar universities established in the same years. So, as of Iğdır University, it's a university, but in fact, it doesn't even have a level of education at a private college level in western cities such as Istanbul, Ankara. The concept of university creation is not necessarily in line with the concept of universitywork, the concept of university development, such as producing universities in every province to make political graduates just apoliticize under the name "university" and lose a process of four or five years. As of 2006, the Ottoman University of Osmaniye, for example, has a budget of 26 trillion 600 thousand in the same year, 26 trillion 800 thousand at Ardahan University, and 31 trillion at Bayburt University; the budget of the University of Iğdır is 17 trillion at the same time. So compared to the equivalent universities, these universities have a budget of half as much as their budget, and the budget is limited to staff expenses. Again, a more important issue: the rights to freedom are not returned to Iğdır University after the process, which is paid by Iğdır University, professorship and assistant professorship, who does doctoral thesis, but whose rights are all covered by Iğdır University, but who prepare their doctorates and professorship thesis in the West. Again, although Iğdır University has provided professors and professors for cheaper costs than teachers in Turkey from neighbouring countries such as Iran and Azerbaijan as its geographical position, unfortunately the Higher Education Board does not allow any majors in these matters. So unless we develop the infrastructure that will allow science to develop in universities, the development of science, and the development of those universities, which are the basis for the development of knowledge and innovation, such legislation will only benefit teachers who teach at several universities and the capital classes in the West, otherwise it will not allow us to achieve the desired outcome across the country. I thank you, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0193par0071	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0194par0072	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0193par0073	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, ranking 97, and Proposal on the Addition and Proposal on the Article 6 of the Law Charter of Some Laws and Laws (also referred to in Article 6) and before the declaration of special technology development in the area of advanced technology development. Ali Özcan (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? - We don't agree, Mr. President. İstanbul MP Ali Özcan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0195par0086	Mr. President, we're here today to discuss the relevant articles regarding the RD. Of course, in developed countries and developing countries, RD is a very important thing. But in this conflict in eastern and southeast Turkey today, and in this situation between the state and the Special Ops and the PKK, I'm speaking to you as the Republican People's Party MP: let's do the research and development of this issue. Let's stick together on this. Let's solve the problems of our people in the east and southeast, with dialogue in the House and each other's thoughts. There's a conflict going on over there. With no curfew for this long, even during coup and martial law, our people can't get out of their home for more than 70 days, they're being displaced from their homes, and this conflict environment is destroying our -- here, in Surahda -- historical artifacts, cultural assets. Of course we have martyrs there, of course our soldiers are dying, of course the police are dying, but in this conflict, our civilian people are dying; children are dying, mothers are dying, our women are dying. Their deaths mean the government's failure. In order to create this atmosphere of non-combativity at once, we need to be in dialogue in the House, we need to work together, and we need to continue to follow the solution to these problems together, and we need to insist together. We need to act together to dominate peace and law. Yes, we went to East and Southeast Anatolia, where we saw the tradesman crying blood, our people crying blood. All the historical, cultural artifacts in Tyre have been destroyed and destroyed by a tank with a cannon. And the view we see there, my friends, is that if we try to revive it, we need at least five years, six years, maybe ten years. Do we have the right? In the '90s, we evacuated from villages, evacuated our people, now from the counties, destroying our counties. Do we have the right, dear friends? Our people there want something, they say: I want to be an equal citizen of basic rights and freedoms. Whatever there is in the West, whatever values the West has, including intellectual values, I want to live with you. Is that what our people want, friends in the east and southeastern? He wants the right to live, the basic right to live. I don't want to die. He says, "I don't want my children to die tomorrow, mothers to die, and I want to live in the east and the west as brothers as I wish... Dear friends, we don't trust each other when we're here in Congress. If our friends here are saying something, if our friends here are against it, if our friends here find that our friends here are wrong, how many times have we given them a motion to investigate, we don't need to have a motion to investigate, let's set up a commission, and let's present the East and Southeastern report that all parties are acting together and evaluated here in Congress.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0196par0090	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0195par0091	Of course, we're saying that the trenches should be shut down, and of course, we're saying that the guns should be shut down, but we want the operations to stop. Despite everything that's happened, the public doesn't want to face each other.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0196par0092	Mr. Ozcan, thank you...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0195par0093	The people want to live as brothers, and the people say that we have no alternative but to law, that we need the law. In the 1990s, I said that. He wants peace and stability. RD is a matter of capital and when you say capital, the capital doesn't go there without a peace of mind, so that the capital can get there as soon as possible.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0196par0094	Mr. Özcan, would you please clean up?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0195par0095	Mr. Minister left, and Mardin said, "If there's no peace, if there's no peace, if you can't create that environment of trust, what if you give him money with zero credit?" He can't do anything about it. The source of distress is not economic, but political. For him, this matter must be resolved in this House.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0196par0096	Mr. Ozcan, thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0195par0097	You solve it, we solve it, you solve it. We're all brothers. This country needs us. This Parliament has the power to do that.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0196par0099	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0195par0100	We should never, never tie things to a presidential process here. I'm speaking to the President here: let him go to Ecuador, let him go to Peru, but let him come to the end, and sing the songs of peace together in the east and southeast.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0197par0102	Tell HDP there!
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0196par0103	Mr. Özcan, thank you; I'll vote on the motion, please...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0195par0104	Thank you all. I'd have your patience, I'd have missed my time, but I'm so full right now, we're gonna talk a lot more.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0196par0105	In the next motion, please, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0195par0106	Let's set up a commission together, let's go to East Anatolia, let's examine it in its place; are you in it, come in.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0196par0108	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 7 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the newness of the Law Bill 97, which is in Article 7 of the Charter, shall be changed in the form of,innovation. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Huda Kaya Kadir Yıldırım Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/540) We propose and propose the amendment of the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, which is the main one that is available in Article 7/540, to the amendment of the Law and Law Act. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Muharrem Varlı Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Yusuf Halaçoğlu Zuhal Topcu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendments to the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, in the following way of the 7th Amendment of the Law bill. Kazim lion Tahsin Tarhan Didem Engin İrfan Bakır Akif Ekici Erkan Aydın "The following article has been added to the Law on the establishment of the Office of Development and Support of Small and Medium Enterprises, dated 7-12/4/1990 and 3624. "EK MADDE 1 - expenditures for research and development, design and innovation activities conducted by the presidency are made from the presidential budget, as well as for academics assigned under Article 38 of Higher Education Law 2547 and to be concerned with public officials and their expertise. Every year, a direct payment is paid to the person who will be appointed directly through the amount set by other laws, without subject to regulations or restrictions, as long as it does not exceed the amount specified by Article 38 of Law 2547 to be included in the expense of people who are experts in the field of public service and in Article 38. According to Law 2547, other financial and social rights are still being paid with monthly, wages, allowances, raises and compensations for the original duties of those assigned to you. Payments to academics assigned under this clause will not be affected by the return of capital." Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Erkan Aydın will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Congressmans, if I could have a word of silence, please.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0198par0141	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 7 of the Law Bill 97. The 7th article is one of the most explicit, vague expressions of abuse in the articles of this law. Therefore, our group has put opposition to this clause. The small and medium-sized development and support administration's presidency is in danger of causing corruption in the expenditures for research, development and innovation activities, for individuals or for service purchases. In addition, the declaration of the bill to provide funds for professors and public officials may lead to employment and use of resources that are not qualified for others who will benefit from service. In addition, another gap to remove the project from its purpose must be removed from this law in any way. These two issues have been very difficult for this substance to be open to abuse. The issue is sensitive because support for the SME has carried corruption allegations with it for years. The ruling party sees the support given to the SMEs as a party benefit and distributes it from the government's pouch. An entrepreneur must obtain a concession from the AKP district centre or district presidents to obtain a grant or loan from KOSGEB. Despite repeated allegations of corruption about COSGEB, no investigation has been launched, I'm afraid. This insensitivity of the ruling party has encouraged some environments, and now a lot of grifters have emerged from COSGEB. Frauds who identify themselves as a consulting company are both stealing his idea and his project, promising a guarantee of support for entrepreneurs seeking to benefit from the grants of KOSGEB. Frauds are said to be assisting in project work for KOSGEB's $50,000 grant to entrepreneurs. At this stage, entrepreneurs who express their opinion to the consulting company also pay the company $500 for the projecting work. Frauds who identify themselves as an entrepreneur's consulting company manage all these transactions via the Internet and telephone, and in the course of time, supporters who have applied for an initiative are being damaged. That's not what I'm saying, it's from KOSGEB President Recep Bicer. The president says that many websites provide subsidies in the form of subsidies. For this reason, he says, the COSGEB has applied harsh conditions and there is absolutely no credit for the slightest error, which is why he claims counseling is being made. We don't know what kind of surveillance is on these con men. In previous years, the KOSGEB was hit with big scores, but the investigations had not ended. For example, three years ago in Eskişehir, thousands of liras of KOSGEB have been defrauded by making a 2006 survey of Gaziantep, as if it had been conducted in the process of putting together a study published in Eskişehir in 2006. In Gaziantep, KOSGEB provided up to 250,000 liras of project support, 60 per cent of which was a grant for the SME to develop their jobs. More than 2,000 companies have applied in Gaziantep to benefit from the support of KOSGEB (KoSGEB), and the allegations of corruption have also come up. A company I won't name has been seriously damaged from here. As a result of the inspection and investigation conducted in Gaziantep in the same days, the prosecution seized 70 files and found serious irregularities in these files. Now, with so much irregularity being done in the SME supports, the fact that there are vague statements in this article will invite new abuses requires that these two statements be removed from the 7th article, and our Commission has put this clause in harm's way. I pay my respects to all lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0199par0148	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has requested an explanation. Here you go. Mr. President, the matter of the allegations of corruption in the speech of your honor is a matter that requires a very brief explanation. At this point, I would like to express in particular that COSGEB is a very serious institution that supports and supports the SME. It is essential that this institution be run within law and regulations. If any error is made in the application, it is our primary duty to observe the detection of this error first within the COSGEB board, our ministry's inspection board and the legal system. All of the issues presented by the deputy are currently being reviewed within the law. We're doing a close-up of the law. In no way do we tolerate corruption in the institution. And when there's an attempt on corruption or a claim like that, it's followed all the way through the law, and we're followers of it. What you said in Gaziantep was in Denizli, and such claims in one or two of our provinces are currently under the control of the law. Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/540) We propose and propose the amendment of the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, which is the main one that is available in Article 7/540, to the amendment of the Law and Law Act. Zuhal Topcu (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0200par0171	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the most important indicators of developed countries is universities. Of course, when you say universities, it's the human element that keeps the concept of university alive and standing up. Here, especially when we look at it as a locomotive, the services of academics, teachers, teachers are important. When we look at a college setting up, it has to serve really successfully in three dimensions. One of them is that when a university is to be built with its infrastructure, its infrastructure has to serve both students and teachers here. There should be investments where social needs can be met, some technological infrastructure can be offered. Now... [[Noises]] Mr. President, may I have your attention, please?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0201par0175	Congressmans, I ask you to remain silent. The speaker is disturbed, he's right. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0200par0177	After these infrastructure problems have been resolved, one of the other key elements will be the pay-per-view size, which will be provided to the teachers. How much does this pay for this effort? When you accept a lecturer as a human being, as a social entity, your needs must be met. At the moment, the salary a professor at universities receives in exchange for his services is not really enough to satisfy his needs. This is also a family owner, which also has a social life, which -- this professor -- has to conduct his own field work; he has to buy books, he has to attend conventions. For all of this, colleges don't contribute very much, so they have to take it out of their pocket. One of the important problems is that there are environments in which he can feel happy and comfortable, what we call the climate of governance. Now, when we look at universities, the faculty faces the threat of a staff. Friends on the research staff, especially one of the first steps to becoming a professor, are really uneasy. When their doctorate is finished, there is no staff guarantee. After their Ph.D. is finished, they are not available for staff. Instead, because of the development of the biat culture, because of the growth of loyalty rather than virtue, and because of the development of the culture of allies, it really is based on scientific integrity and closeness to power. Now how much scientific work can be done with a structure like this, we leave it to your discretion. When we look at the Global Competitiveness Index of the World Economic Forum, in 2015, Turkey is the average 51st of the 140 countries. Especially in terms of health and elementary education, Turkey is ranked ranked 73, 55, ranking 55, ranking 127, ranking 64, in terms of labour market competency, in terms of technological preparation, and 60, in terms of innovation. Now, from this point of view, a government that boasts about building a university in every city is excluded from its assessment of university quality, its services to teachers and students. It's not enough to fill colleges with students, but these students really need to graduate from here with hardware, and they need to be trained by really well-equipped faculty. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0202par0183	Mr. Topcu, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the newness of the Law Bill 97, which is in Article 7 of the Charter, shall be changed in the form of,innovation. Mahmoud Toğrul (Gaziantep) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Mahmut Toğrul of Gaziantep will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0203par0196	Mr. President, I salute you all, dear MPs and fellow workers of the General Assembly. In fact, before I start my words, I'd like to say that I've just signed off on all the statements that the CHP member -- I think Ali Özcan -- said here. Dear friends, we're talking about RD and design activities. We have institutions that make scientific measurements and evaluations of these RDs and design activities. TUBIAK is at the beginning of this, TUBA is coming. Yesterday I tried to explain what TÜBİTAK was like, and today I'm going to try to tell you about TÜBA, what TİBA had done, what TİBA had become during the AKP period, and I'm going to try to explain what TÜBA had become. Dear lawmakers, scientific boards are the prestigious structures of the countries. They also provide that prestige with their first autonomy, their contribution to progress and correcting wrongs by criticizing the state and government when necessary. The competencies of scientists on these boards are closed to debate if they are correctly identified, and they are made up of academics who contribute to science in their own fields, even if they are from different schools. The TÜBA, of course, is an institution that has been created on the basis of similar ones in the world, but with the change made by the AKP (AKP), TUBA has been transformed into a state office, almost run by appointment, let alone an autonomous structure. Today, 1/3 of the members of the TÜBA are elected by the government, 1/3 by the YÖK and the rest by the original members. In fact, when you consider it in total, it means a backyard of the government. The president is appointed by the Prime Minister, President and Minister of Science, Industry and Technology with a triple decree. In this sense, it is not only a public office, but it is a property of TUBA. Tens, hundreds of academics protesting these appointments, unfortunately had to resign from TÜBA membership. The services of a non-privileged institution for academics will also be subject to questioning due to student support and the structure of the institution. The adoption of a system based on literature, not scientific knowledge, of scientists who have risen with the appointment, will cause them to develop a similar trend in the selection criteria. Dear friends, I'm afraid scientific institutions have been chosen as a whole staffing area during the AKP administration. Another important thing, unfortunately, is that the TUBA was created with a monogamous structure. Among TÜBA's duties, it has been proposed to develop Turkish as a language of science. Our country is a multilingual, multicultural, multi-religious country. So different languages in this geography need to be included in the study area of different cultures. The TÜBA, however, is only interested in developing Turkish and Turkish, so unfortunately, for example, it does not view the development of Kurdish as the language of science, which 30 to 40 percent of our country speaks, wherever you look at it. Now, it's something that, in the academic environment, like, you can't train with Kurdish, you know, from time to time, you know, AKP speakers, we've given you the right to education in the native language. They say he founded private educational institutions, the one who teaches Kurdish. Count one, dear friends. We built private educational institutions despite the structures of the state, we built them ourselves, and the government is doing everything in its power to shut down those institutions right now. Such institutions should have an absolute obligation to put a university in front of Kurdish education. Because our Kurdish citizens also pay taxes and want to receive education in their native language. So this country... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...their institutions should be in the effort to meet that need. I'm stating that a university with a native language education is needed in this country as soon as possible. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0204par0209	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 8 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "anywhere" in the "c" column of the 8th article of the current 97th row bill be removed from the text of matter. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Hüda Kaya Kadri Yıldırım Muslüm Doğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that Article 8 of Article 8 of the Law (O) be changed as follows by the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, which are currently held in the following order. Kazim lion Tahsin Tarhan Didem Engin İrfan Bakr Akif Ekici Turabi Kayan "O) Technician: High-educated in engineering, science and health sciences or graduates of the design, science or health departments of vocational institutes, technical knowledge and experience," Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to ask that the laws and laws shall be changed in the provisions of the Law and Law Act on Supporting Research and Development Actions that have been discussed by Z, aa, bb, CC, be removed from the text of matter under Article 8 of the Bill of Law. Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan Ruhi Ersoy Mustafa Mit Celal Adan Nuri Okutan Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu will talk on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0205par0239	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding Article 8 of the Bill of Law on Supporting Research and Development Act 97. On this occasion, I salute you all. The 8th article aims to include updates of the Ministry's name, modifications and additions to definitions due to support of design activity, addition of the definition of the speciality technology development area to Law 4691, project RD and area definitions. Dear lawmakers, if you look at the arrangement of the bill, the training foot appears to be weak. It is clear that the most important wealth of our young population is not given a good education, that our young ones are anxious to get a job as they graduate from college, that there is no continuity and stability in our education system, starting from the pre-school period, that there is a need to grow creative, questioning, researching, pushing boundaries, that is one of the most important factors in the infrastructure of national science, technology and industrial development. Higher education units in engineering, science, and health care are the main source. Basic sciences at universities in Turkey have been defunctioned since 2007, and their graduates have become preferable -- because the opportunity for employment has been narrowed down -- despite increased student quotas. In terms of the total proportion of students registering for these units, Turkey is ranked second to second in the 37-nation rankings. Another issue at the top of our country's painful realities is Turkey's college graduates are among the lowest five countries in terms of the size of employment rates. Men are ranked 30th, women are ranked 34th, 2nd from the last. In this race, Turkey also needs to increase its efficiency, give industry more importance and concrete support, develop industrial-university and innovation cooperation in the role of the state's quarterback, commercialise scientific ideas, reform the educational system, ensure women's participation in education and working life. Dear MPs, the National Movement Party has to be focused on the development of investigative manpower to achieve these goals, as we have stated in our election statement, to create the environment needed for information economics and innovation. In a very short period of time and year-on-year, the number of full-time researchers per thousand must be increased to 3 per cent and more than 1.01 per cent of R&amp;D spending from an informal domestic product to 1.01 per cent in four years. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, our universities need to be made into information and technology production centers. The universities, especially the PKK and the separatist group, should be eliminated from pro-employee personnel, and non-terrorist administrators who refer to students' rights to education shouldn't be housed in science nests. Last year, at the University of Aegean, we had the unfortunate process of protecting and protecting our Ülkü January President, Fırat Yilmaz Çakıroğlu, who had been killed by the separatist terrorist organization. While our universities are supposed to be places where science, education, education should continue, the attacks of particularly separatist terrorist organizations continue at universities. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I would like to point out from the Supreme Assembly platform that both our universities' administrators and law enforcement officers must be prepared for an effective fight against those who run the terrorist organization and again take measures to ensure that there will be no proceedings leading to the martyrship of Ülkist Fırat Yilmaz Çakıroğlu.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0206par0250	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0205par0251	The universities say that the Turkish nation should have scientific, knowledge centers to shed light on its future, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0206par0253	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that Article 8 of Article 8 of the Law (O) be changed as follows by the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, which are currently held in the following order. "O) Technician: High-educated in engineering, science and health sciences or graduates of the design, science or health departments of vocational institutes, technical knowledge and experience," Turabi Kayan (Cırklareli) and his friends Does the Commission agree with the reading motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. On the motion, Mr. Turabi Kayan of the 40s will speak. Here you go, Mr. Kayan.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0207par0267	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on the 8th Amendment to the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, and on the 8th Article of the Law on the Amendment to Decisions of Some Laws and Laws. It's a step towards the development of our country and its progress in technology. Therefore, we find it true and find it lacking, and we find it inadequate. We find it inadequate because the budget is half of the budgets in the developed countries, or even one third of some countries. In addition, we find that the part that is divided here is not enough for the productive outcome of the time set aside because their work here is far behind even Iran. We find it incomplete because education is missing its foot. It is not possible for an unsanitary work to function in a healthy manner. Today, an understanding that is trying to finish Middle East Technical University in education; today we do not think that a mindset that destroys what we call the Turkish Institute for Scientific and Technical Research will have a healthy result in the work done here. Dear friends, since the day the government arrived, it has been constantly trying to recruit political imams and bring them to the head of institutions. These, at the same time, fill these institutions with people who are like them. Now, I ask you, today, is there any chance that we can compete worldwide with our people, our students, our young people, who don't get a healthy education, a good, qualified fix, and that's how they're trained? There isn't. Today is the time when we need healthy education the most. So we say: "We must first consider education in a healthy way. We brag about opening colleges, but do we think about how many qualified universities we have, how many of the top 500 universities we have in the world? There's one, Middle East Technical University, and we're trying to jam some weed in his bell. Why? Because he doesn't listen to them because he believes in the mind, because he believes in the mind, not the mind, but the mind, so they try to finish him off. Dear friends, raising technical staff, raising engineers, getting a master's degree, getting a Ph.D., that's the kind of work that healthy educational institutions have to handle and raise and bring up in the most healthy way. Now, we're trying to finish our most healthy, most qualified educational institution. After that, we spend money on RD, we spend time on RD, and we think we'll move forward with these. We can't move forward. First we have to create our own philosophy. With a philosophy-fearing understanding, we can't go one step further. We need to produce our own science. We need free, free-willed universities to produce our own science. There's not much that colleges who are slaves to the YOK will do to this RD. So we say, dear friends, this country must move to qualified education. In order to move to qualified education, we need educational institutions, teachers, who are not slaves to anyone. First we fix this, then we get our country to produce technology, produce science, and compete with the world in philosophy. I thank you all, and I wish you to create healthy and happy RD.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0208par0276	Thank you, Mr. Kayan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "anywhere" in the "c" column of the 8th article of the current 97th row bill be removed from the text of matter. Müslüm Doğan (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? - We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Müslüm Doğan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0209par0289	Congressmans, I have made a pledge on Article 8 of the proposed bill. In our world, dominated by capitalist modernity, it is clear how much sustainable economic growth has been innovative and associated with RD. In this technologically produced and associated situation, advanced economies are considered developed countries, and are able to compete in the spirit of capitalism. As it is known, RD is a creative effort based on a systematic basis for increasing scientific and technical knowledge, and it is the task of using that knowledge in new applications. Dear lawmakers, RD studies in modern - day world life have become virtually indispensable to human life. It is also part of the RD target for facilitating social life and improving the quality of life. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the state of the RD studies in our country that are so important, there are numbers I'd like to present to you about Turkey and the world statistics. Of every 10,000 employees, the number of researchers was 11 in Turkey and 94 in the countries of the European Union. Again, the share for GDP in illegal domestic property is 0.67 per cent in Turkey, while the European Union is 1.92. The annual number of scientific publications per million populations is 41 in Turkey and 613 in the European Union. The annual number of patents from the European Patent Office per million populations finds no one in Turkey, while the European Union calls it 135. First, it is evident from the data that we have provided above that our view of the RD should be changed. It is evident that R&D contains three stages of basic research, application research, experimental development, and that is an undisputed fact. As long as we don't develop these triple feet that include all three stages, it can't make scientific, systematic work possible unless we're on the basis -- measurement, monitoring and evaluation -- to achieve that. Therefore, we feel that project-based work should be based on. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as you discuss this bill, you know very well the situation in our country. Blood and tears have walked, and the research proposals that we've put out here... why are there blood flowing, why are there tears, why are the peoples being driven away from each other, and why are we looking for a dirty method, when you're trying to find out who's putting this dirty method, and when you say, "Let's look into it," you vote against it. Look, the esteemed MPs, you know the fundamental elements of this country. I'm sad when I say it here. There's an Anatolian people from different nations, nationalities, different beliefs. A one-type understanding, Turkish-Islam synthesizer, Jön Türkçü, Ithitat Terakkici, the community-sponsored system is now broken. Let's stop implementing this system. May our faiths be free, our peoples live together in peace as brothers. If we don't investigate blood and tears, blood stopping, what are we going to investigate here, lawmakers? Believe me, look, I work in the area. Today is a holy day of Alevi faith and teaching. He fasted, and the Flames and the brotherhood prayed for peace today. The tears that flow in this country, the tears of mothers must stop at once. We all have to work hard here, we all have to put some serious effort into it. If we don't introduce these research proposals and condemn a monotheistic system, the people, the faith, will fall into one another. There's a Syrian sample, there's an Iraqi sample. Why has our thousand-year-old friendship come to this? If we don't investigate this, if we don't reveal it, the gap between beliefs, teachings, nations, nationalities will multiply, and they will become enemies to one another. I say let's look into it, and I'll pay all your respects, folks.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0210par0298	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0211par0300	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit05spe0210par0301	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All in favor... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit06spe0210par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision on Article 8 of the 97 rows of the Law Bill to vote on the proposal of İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. We'll resume the talks of Bill 97. The commission is here. The government is here. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions in Article 9 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to introduce the introduction of the "Economy Ministry" to be added after the notice of the Ministry of Development of the 9th Amendment in Article 9 of the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions under Law and Law. Baki Şekeker Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Celal Adan Mustafa Mit Ruhi Ersoy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the phrase "needful view" taken from the text of the article, which is in the third joke of the 9th Article of the Common Law Bill 97. İdris Bauken Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first joke of Article 9 of "The Evaluation Board's work, the procedure and the fundamentals of the sentence shall be determined and shall be taken out of the joke. Kazim lion Tahsin Tarhan Haydar Akar Ömer Fethi Gürer Erkan Aydın Özkan Yimım Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Haydar Akar will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit06spe0212par0039	Mr. President, we're talking about the valuable lawmakers; we're talking about RD, and we're saying that Turkey has a lot of flaws in RD, but we're still helping to make an effort to make something happen. In fact, when we look at the bill, compared with the countries that actually had major shares in R&D, we find that AKP could only go beyond theory, and we saw it very easily during the 13 years of government before that. Because they had set a target when they started, when they started to rule, they set a 3 percent target, but at the point where we came in, as of the years ago, at 0.85 in 2009, we were only able to get to 1,01. It's clear that we're way behind in the numbers when we compare it to other developed countries. And where do we see this from? When we compare the exports and imports of high-tech products, we see how high imports are, and the exports of high-tech products are reduced from 7 per cent of exports, 7 per cent of exports, from 7 per cent of government of the AKP to 2 per cent of the countries where they came to power, to 3/s, around 3.70. This tells us that after the AKP arrives, we see together that it follows a style of governance that does not produce, develop, or adapt society to consumption, embraces imported goods and communities. We also support these efforts today. What effort? To share some shares with the AR-GE, to add new values. But, again, we see that in the future, the probability that the AR-GE is not concentrated in the particular sector, that it doesn't focus on a sector, that it doesn't focus on high-tech products, that it can be given anything, or that it can be divided into a portion of anything, is also unlikely to rise to the level of 3%. Again, in Article 9 of this article, it talks about technology development areas, and a review board is set up. You're going to build technology development areas in cities like organized industrial areas. You've added all the units to the technology development areas you've built in these cities, but you've forgotten the municipalities that should be in the cities. And I don't understand why you've forgotten, because you've turned organized industrial areas into a republic with a flag, like a Vatican. The municipalities can't control it, they can't get inside it, they can't get involved in the zoning, they can't get involved in the publicisation, you've turned it into a separate republic, you're building a new republic, a state of technology development. Again, you've left out the most dynamic public institution in the region. Now, what I'm trying to say is that these are the population papers that started ten years ago, and at the same time, these newly distributed licenses. These ID cards have two chips on them, both of which have contact and no contact. What's a chip? We're talking chips with information on them. These are not developed in Turkey. According to information from TÜBITAK, they say that they are also working on developing these chips in Turkey, and that they are also developing devices that will read these chips. But when we go from theory to practice, we have to do something. If we've developed an identity card, if we've developed the devices to read them, there are two chips on this identity card, and if one of those two chips has our population information, and the other one has the information that the countries can use to give us visas, there might be driver's license information on these chips. There are many examples in the world, and I'm not going to name them one by one, but they've done it. Since TÜBITAK has succeeded in this work, we've done such a beautiful project, we've been implementing it in Bolu, these identity cards have been distributed for five or six years, but we're standing in a place like we thought, we can't go any further, we can't improve this, we're starting to do other things in other areas, costs are going up, and we're spending time. My advice is that you've given someone five years to change them -- three years to ID cards, five years to driver's licenses -- they can be very easily merged, and a citizen can be prevented from doing two separate jobs. Of course, there's a law to be passed while we're at it. What was it? It's a safety law on personal data. We haven't passed this law yet, but we're starting to hand out chip cards, ID cards, driver's licenses. BlM, SANAYI and TEKNOLOGI FlSlCY IS COMING NEXT WEEK. I know you're coming next week. These need to be synchronized. Which, you know, we're one of the first countries to agree to the Security of Data Act, but we're the last country to bring it to Parliament, and we're too late for that. Time's running out. My advice to you: review it, turn it into a single card. I'm just saying, save people more than one expense, and at least let people benefit from the benefits of technology, and let's keep each other in sync. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit06spe0213par0056	Thank you, Mr. Akar. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement shall be removed from the text of the substance, which is required in the third joke of Article 9 of the Common Law Bill 97. Kadir Yıldırım (Siirt) and his friends Does the Commission agree with the reading motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? - We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Kadir Yıldırım will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit06spe0214par0069	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, my regards to you all again. When we were in college, we had meetings about RD, panels, conferences, three or four articles, principles, that came first. One of them is that it has to stay away from the centrifugal structure, where we want it to be resolved with the administration, which is exactly where we want it to be. One is to be motivated at universities. One was that the doctorate and postmodern doctorate must and must be encouraged, and most importantly, all cultures, all languages in the context of the AR-G have to take their place in these universities, to have a life. Now, of course, we know that when you say different cultures, one of them is Kurdish, Kurdish culture. The great Kurdish Islamic scholar and thinker Ahmed-i Hani, who lived three hundred years ago, demanded that this culture be accepted as an official language by the official authorities of the era three hundred years ago. Look, today, this masterpiece of Mem û Zin, Ahmed-i Hani, was published by the Ministry of Culture. Ahmed-i Hani, three hundred years ago, says, "Well, it's worthless in our language. Don't say that. There's no official stamp of approval for power, management. If an official approval seal had struck this language, such counterfeit money would not have been a fake stamp. So, while the Prime Minister recently explained the master plan in Mardin, one of the articles mentions Ahmed-i Hani's spirit, which is the unifying spirit. I say that our Ministry of Culture, Mem û Zin, has suppressed and read it well. In it, Ahmed-i Hani made it clear that for Kurdish to be used in the main language, the official confirmation seal for Kurdish should be shot. Therefore, I invite you to work with what is inside Mem û Zin, and I ask you to do your duty in order that this seal of formality be put on Hani's tongue. Secondly, there's talk of PhDs in universities under RD. Look, there's a Department of Kurdish Language and Literature at the University of Artuklu, Mardin, where I come from. In other institutes, this Kurdish Language Department was opened. Those departments at other universities were given the right to a doctor's office, even though no staff member was there. But for the Kurdish Language Department at Mardin Artuklu University where I came from, Mr. Erdoğan, who then became Prime Minister, said that what we did there was a revolution and that it would be judged, but nothing was done after that. One of the reasons why it's not done is because I don't accept these orders from some of the associations, foundations and unions who were sent to me on orders and feel close to power when I'm taking a student to this department opened at Mardin Artuklu University. Because I believe that in science, in academy, in universal values, orders are not accepted; scientific ethics, scientific principles apply. Therefore, I would like to suggest that, of course, both the use of Kurdish language in education and the formal recognition of its language, as well as especially the opening of this doctoral program at Mardin Artuklu University. Otherwise, objectiveness, physicality will be discussed, and I will continue to argue. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit06spe0215par0076	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to introduce the introduction of the "Economy Ministry" to be added after the notice of the Ministry of Development of the 9th Amendment in Article 9 of the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions under Law and Law. Baki Simsek (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? - We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Baki Simsek will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit06spe0216par0089	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I have made a commitment to the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions 97, and to the motion on Article 9 of the Perpetual Laws Against Some Laws and Laws. I hereby salute the Holy Turkish nation and the Grand Assembly. A year before my speech began, on February 11th, I curse the villains who kidnapped and raped Özgecan Aslan, who had only been studying at the university, who had killed his arms and legs and then burned his body to death. I say if we forget about Özgecan, we lose our morality, our conscience, our humanity. We will not forget, neither will we forget, nor will we forget. My condolences to the family of Özgecan Aslan. Of course, I've been keeping a close eye on the talks on RD. I also believe that serious research development activities in Turkey are not possible with 1% budgets. I also don't think there is a serious institution for research and development in Turkey except ASELSAN. I wish from here today, a government that has ruled Turkey for 14 years had revealed concrete things about research and development. Today, 550 MPs don't have one domestic and national cell phone in their pocket. I'm afraid there aren't one local and one national car with 550 MPs on board. For 14 years, we would have expected that a government running the country would have done it, but we will still do it. It is called, we will see. It is said that we will fly the first native and national aircraft in the years to come. I'm calling from here to Mr. Ministera and the AKP MPs: your responsibility is great. Unfortunately, there have been terrors in Turkey for thirty years, and you've been in it for 14 years. The AKP is in 14 years of 30 years of terror. In 2005, Mr. Prime Minister at the time went to Diyarbakır and had a Kurdish problem, and we're going to solve it. He started saying "Barzani" and "Sivan Perver" and "X" on one side of Turkey. The terrorists were then greeted with drums and zurna in Habur. Terrorists were sent by judges, prosecutors. Judges, prosecutors asked the terrorists: "Are you sorry?" The terrorists said, "We live in a cave, but we don't regret it, we fight our cause." Unfortunately, the judges of the state said, "No, you regret it, we're letting you go." Later, these talks continued in Oslo, in Imralı, in Dolmabahçe. Today, Mr. President says: "I don't know about Dolmabahça talks."
tbmm-2016-02-11sit06spe0217par0095	I do.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit06spe0218par0096	Yeah, he knows all about it.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit06spe0216par0097	If he didn't know about the Dolmabahçe talks, who did Yalçin Akdoğan negotiate for terrorists at Dolmabahçe Palace? I offer it to the High Council's discretion. The state of the Republic of Turkey will live as long as the world exists. The Turkish state and the Turkish nation will exist, and no power will stand in its way. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit06spe0219par0101	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a break from the merger until 8:45 p.m.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0220par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 97. Commission? Here. Government? Here. There's a motion on Article 10 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the Council of Ministers be removed from the text of matter, in the first joke of Article 10 of the Common Law Bill 97. İdris Baluken Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Erol Dora Müslüm Doğan Mahmut Toğrul Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? - We don't agree, Mr. President. Mardin MP Erol Dora has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dora. You've been on for five minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0221par0019	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on Article 10 of the Bill of Law on Supporting Research and Development Act 97. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the most important requirement for competing internationally in the age of today's knowledge is to invest in information. One of the first concepts that comes to mind when it's called investment in information is RD. The prosperity of a society and the growth of its level depend on the country's potential for development, its ability to use and spread information. However, when we look at the state of universities in Turkey's RD studies, the inadequacy in scientific activities continues to increase the level of problems that could be listed in the form of increasing academic injustices as a result of the more alienated by the system's competitiveness. Dear lawmakers, the sudden and rapid changes observed in the higher education system have been carried out with an understanding that the scientific activity and quality goals expected from the university have been pushed back into the background without meeting the teaching and infrastructure requirements of universities. In 2002, the total number of universities was 76, while today there are 175 universities, 104 states, 71 foundation universities. However, it is an important contradiction that the quality of universities constantly declines in the face of increasing quantity. Dear lawmakers, the control mechanism at universities is an important problem. The SEC, YDK, SEC, and the rectors have become a sort of preventive control mechanism. The way of quality education, critical thinking and creative research is not through standardisation and external control, but through democratic participation and public supervision. In this context, universities should have autonomous structures. Academic autonomy is the possibility that the university can be different from the others in accordance with its strategic plans. Thus, the democratic method is that the university determines education programmes, research and study policies with its own democratic boards and components. Dear lawmakers, researchers are often subject to forced labour due to uncertainty in their job descriptions. Besides, academic advancements have turned into a status quo hierarchical order. The most obvious example of this is the process of receiving the title of professorship. The Interuniversity Board's professorship application and jury creation system does not function well. The assistant professor, professor and professors have individual applications and injustices are increasing. In addition, the AKP government's deployment of police at the university is an application that threatens the most fundamental rights and freedoms from university components, freedom of expression, academic and scientific freedoms, right to organisation, to the right to live. Precious lawmakers, neoliberal economic policies, as in many countries, have taken universities into the influence of the free market in Turkey and locked them to the goal of producing information and elements that need the university, the market and global capital. A university with its ears closed to social problems, and a scientist's typology is unacceptable. Universitys and scientists have an important role in implementing universal knowledge in the context of social benefits. However, universities and scientists in Turkey are unable to play the role. The antiquated lynching campaigns that we've been living in the past few weeks have been the closest example in the form of intimidation, detention, investigations, termination of the peace sensitivity of academics. Dear lawmakers should move beyond the collegiate-industrial co-operation of universities with social issues, and by means of local administrations, labour unions and NGOs, they should also qualify for other layers of society. In Turkey, universities, people, society and nature should be redesigned, transformed into autonomous structures, becoming a respected member of the world's scientific family. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0222par0028	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 11 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "or design put in Article 11 of the Common Law Bill 97 shall be changed to" and designed. " İdris Baluken Mahmut Toğrul Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Müslüm Doğan Mahmoud Celadet Güdalı Meral Danış Beştaş Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/540) We propose and propose that Article 11 of the Law shall be changed in the following way, with the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, which is currently in session. "The first joke of Article 7 of Law 11-491 was added "or design" to come after the declaration "the least university graduate" and "AR-Ge" after the declaration." Aruz Erdem Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Mit Emin Haluk Ayhan Ruhi Ersoy Celal Adan Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Erdem. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, your five minutes are up.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0223par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I pray every day that we don't have martyrs, but unfortunately, we get burned almost every day. Yesterday and the day before, the fire didn't just fall into the homes of our sons, our police, and our law enforcement forces, and we were burned by the news of our officers' testimony. Two of our officers, three of our soldiers, and three of our police officers were killed the day before yesterday in Uludere. Yesterday, we had another martyr. I wish patience for their grieving families, my condolences to the great Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Action Party Group on Article 11 of the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, and on amendments to Some Legislatures. I salute the General Assembly. "Our leader, Mr. State Gardener, is the solution of dissolution." Didn't he say? My solution is betrayal." Didn't he say? My solution is a disaster." Didn't he say? Today, our young sons, our young policemen, our teachers, our nurses, our teachers, our doctors, and our beloved Turkish nation pay the price for this betrayal. "The National Movement Party will not negotiate with terror. Let's fight terror." he said. Yes, today's leader, Mr. State Gardener, has always proved true. The process of betrayal lowers martyr fire in our home, folding negative effects from economy to tourism. Despite the terrorist incidents between June 7th and November 1st, the ruling party continued its wrong policy, despite the fact that we fell to the ground every day. You know why? There was only one reason: vote anxiety. Although the ruling party saw how much he had done wrong, the saintly Turkish nation offered to put the process of solving our country's deep wounds into the refrigerator instead of saying, "We've finished it that day." On that day, the National Movement Party urged the disaster process, the betrayal process, to end the so-called process of resolution and fight terrorism. Dear MPs, from July 20th to this side we have lost 166 soldiers, 125 police officers, 7 rangers and 2 officers, a total of 300 brothers. Today's losses are the price of intense love and sympathy for PKK until yesterday. The great Turkish nation is paying the high price. In this process called the solution process, terror has descended into cities, street wars have broken out. This process is the result of the promises made in Oslo. This process is the result of dirty negotiations in Imran. This process is the bloody result of the treaty of treason declared in Dolmabahçe Palace by the AKP and a certain meeting. This process has been paid back to the Turkish nation with coffins wrapped in the flag of our young saplings. As you can tell from here, it's our beloved nation that's paying the price for what's been done. Dear lawmakers, a few of the ruling party officials involved in the so-called solution process are still among us. Do they remember what you said? I don't need to name names, of course the sayer knows what he's talking about. ▪ The victim has the ability to read and experience events. It has been said by ruling party officials, in our memory. The climbs to the mountain became more qualified than before. It was said that the ruling party officials again, in our memories. The eulogies of the baby killer Ocalan have been set up. Isn't that the period when the terrorist organisation PKK was armed in cities, the neighborhood, street organization and the ruling party that tolerated them? Didn't the ruling party see that their writings were removed from the mountains? Hasn't he seen the Turkish signs on the official apartments removed and replaced with other signs? We saw it as the National Movement Party, and we warned it, but the Prime Minister of the period, Mr. Davutoglu, also saw it. He even thanked me when I ran into different signs at the Diyarbakır rally. Of course, Mr. President, one of the chief architects of the betrayal process, has a rather large plague on today's table. On June 2, 2011, he said he had a Kurdish problem. Praise be to God, he understood the truth and said there was no Kurdish problem on April 28, 2015. On August 23, 2010, he was the bastard who met with the PKK. Everyone should know that. He said that. On September 19, 2011, the government met with the PKK, not us. He'll see you. He said he'll see you. On September 27, 2012, I personally instructed him to meet with the PKK. He said, "It is impossible to understand the disaster our country is being dragged into and continue the process of solution on July 28, 2015." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to say my last words in exchange for a word I don't want to repeat, pronounced under the roof of the High Assembly. You don't do politics through ethnic identity. No one can break our thousand-year brotherhood. This is Turkey. Our language is Turkish. Our flag is a white moon star flag, and everyone who lives on this land is a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. Blessed is he who says he is Turkish! Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0224par0066	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "or design put in Article 11 of the Common Law Bill 97 shall be changed to" and designed. " İdris Bauken (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Adana MP Meral Danış Beştaş is demanding a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0225par0078	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today is the 1st anniversary of Özgecan's death, his slaughter, his brutal slaughter. We really think it's very important for those who murdered him to receive the punishment they deserve in the face of justice, and we want to say that these decisions must be carried out against all women's violence and massacres. And in the person of Ozgecan, we want to honor all the women who have ever been abused, raped and abused, and paid the price for their lives, both in and within the family and in the public area. Of course, violence against women is not limited to the case of Özgecan. We need to think about it, discuss it, and remember it. In Turkey, in a social sense, the secondary class approach to women, the segregation, unfortunately, has come to a stage that is almost boastful and proud of, starting from family to all parts of society. For us, a woman is a person, a subject, half of a people. He represents a species that has as much rights and freedom as men and should be equal in all decision-making mechanisms of society. Turkey is the only country in the world condemned for violence against women for the first time in the European Court of Human Rights. Opuz's decision -- I know very well as that application's applicant's lawyer -- is that there is discrimination against women in Turkey -- has taken place in the history of law as a decision by the European Court of Human Rights. Of course, it's not something to brag about. Our goal is to eliminate discrimination, violence, abuse and abuse against women in Turkey. Because -- in this society -- we want to say once again that women are not free, that women are not equal, that women are not equal, that as individuals, that the whole society can never be free and talk about equality. On behalf of Özgecan, I would like to share with you today that a naked woman's body has been served on social media as of last night.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0226par0085	The governor's office denied him.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0225par0086	A naked female body, known in the press as, known as,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.., was served in public again. Today in Cizre, we see these disgusting, horrible photographs being served in such a terrible way. It can't be human, it can't be human, it can't be human. Taking pictures of a woman naked and serving her body is not human. But unfortunately, Şırnak Governorate has said that instead of investigating those who did this in his statement, we launched an investigation -- just like Mush Governorate -- to those who had taken it and served it -- that today, according to the written statement that it had just fallen, the successful operations in Cizre were wanted to be marred. Indeed, this explanation brings shame and shame once again. It doesn't matter where he is, it's important to know who did it and to answer for it in front of the judge. In Turkey, 2016, it is explained that women's bodies were exposed after they were killed, and there is no acceptable, non-disputable side. Şırnak Governorate also speaks of a victory as if it were invading another country. There, the wounded are slaughtered, the wounded burned to death. We haven't heard from the people we're counting their names on, the civilians, and we haven't been able to answer any of those questions. On this occasion, I bow before the memory of the naked female body of the social media today, Özgecan, Ekin Van, and many other women, many women who have lost their lives, and I really want to remind you once again of our responsibility. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0227par0091	I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0228par0092	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0227par0093	Anyway, you can do the other one, so I voted. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on the 12th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the decimal be replaced as the semi-comma, after the tax on the 12th amendment of the Law Bill 97, which is currently in session. İdris Baluken Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Mahmut Toğrul Müslüm Doğan Mehmet Emin Adıyaman I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/540) We propose and propose that the application be added after the 12th Article of the Law shall be passed with the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Muharrem Varlı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Mehmet Erdoğan Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree? - We don't agree, Mr. President. No one wants a word on the motion. This arrangement also stipulates that any services necessary for the region should be exempted from the stamp tax from valuable paper in order to reduce the financial burdens on it. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the decimal be replaced as the semi-comma, after the tax on the 12th amendment of the Law Bill 97, which is currently in session. İdris Bauken (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree? - We don't agree, Mr. President. Iğdır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman demanding a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0229par0129	Why don't you tell us why you're going to do a semicolon?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0230par0130	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, in this bill of law, of course, the goal is to increase the competitiveness of production, goods and products, as a fundamentally capitalist understanding of the research and innovation process, but also in the market and market sector, but to increase the profit of the producer of goods and services, the producer of meta. Now, of course, capital and meta-producing capitalist systems or capitalists, but it also needs to find a buyer in the market. So the product produced as a result of the accumulation of information with the AR-GE will have to have a buyer in the market, so the consumer has to have a buyer. Now, we make this law in terms of better quality production of goods and services. However, it is important to see whether the consumer class, the working masses, or workers, is able to market this technology product or any product that exists on the market in a more high quality way. Now, most of our society is consumer. So if consumers do not have the ability to buy -- that is, workers can only maintain living standards with their income, if the village can only sustain their life, then the impact of this research, this knowledge buildup, will not have much meaning in the product. In the 13-year period of AKP power, peasantism was consumed, so the resources of the income produced by the villager in the agricultural sector were exhausted. Today, Turkey is a self-contained country in the production of sugar beets, while sugar factories in almost many provinces of Turkey have been working years ago, and now in Turkey, sugar beets have become almost unproductive, and we are now importing sugar. In a country where animalism is so intense that the peasant is largely providing his livelihood with livestock, it's now reduced to an almost animal-free level, and we're now importing meat from abroad. Of course, there's a logic to that. So we know that the current free market economy and the capitalist system will actually sustain this process. What's the matter? Taking the peasant out of his village, as a cheap labor force, that's exactly what the law wants to serve, the capitalists, the investor class, is to create a cheap labor force. Thus, in essence or parallel to the law discussed here, the work of the consumer class and the life standards of the village also needed to bring the activities or legal regulations of the income level to the agenda of this House. But the power seems to be ignoring the interests of working classes, peasantry, labor, and civil servants who make a large majority of society, and instead of using science in the general interest of the public, we consider it an activity aimed at increasing capital capital capital by a few times, perhaps at a small amount, to produce more goods, to add profit to its profits. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0231par0136	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Now, I submit to your votes, Article 1 of the 13th Amendment: those who accept... those who refuse... supplement 1 has been accepted. There are three motions on Article 2 of Article 13: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the decimal be replaced as" comma " and" comma" after the statement "after the "phone" in Article 2 of Article 13 of Law Bill 97, which is currently in session. İdris Baluken Mahmut Toğrul Filis Kerestecioğlu Mahmoud Celadet Güslüm Doğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and remove the declaration of "investigation" in Article 2 of Article 13 of the Law Charter 13 of the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, which are currently held in the ranks 97. Kazim lion Tahsin Tarhan Didem Engin İrfan Bakr Akif Ekici Özkan Yimım Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to ask that the amendments to the provisions of the Law and the Law shall be made to support the ongoing Research and Development Actions shall be reorganised in the following manner, under Article 13 of the Law bill. EK MADDE 2 - The software conducted under this law, R&Ge, is exempt from paper and processing tax and mortar, which are imported for research on innovation projects, which are not available in Turkey, from investment goods and/or searching products, customs tax and all kinds of funds. " Arzu Erdem Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Mustafa Mit Emin Haluk Ayhan Celal Adan Ruhi Ersoy Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree? - We don't agree, Mr. President. İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0232par0169	Thank you again, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, at the end of my speech, I'd like to re-pronounce what I wanted to discuss here on the stand. I'd like to say my final words in exchange for a word pronounced under the roof of the High Assembly that I don't want to repeat: no politics through ethnic identity. No one can break our thousand-year brotherhood. This is Turkey, our language is Turkish, our flag is a white moon star flag, and everyone who lives on this land is a citizen of the Republic of Turkey and is Turkish. Happy Turk! Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 13 of the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, and on the Amendment to Some Legislatures. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, we generally welcome the bill on supporting the RD activities we're discussing. But in some ways, we disagree. The National Movement Party has supported and will continue to give support to any subject that concerns the interests of our beloved nation. He has also demonstrated his support and effort in this bill. And I want to point out that the hard worker wants results. The way Turkey can compete with developed countries and become an economically independent national state is through research, development. In order to be a productive society, economic policies based on R&D should be implemented. Dear lawmakers, the word RD is often used recently in our country, but it is interpreted differently. Some say RD is to produce a new product, others say it's to do scientific studies. The concept of RD is a concept that needs to be adopted at the state level, and to be in the future, we need to give the importance to the individual as a state and as an institution. We have to remember that countries that can't develop their technology themselves can't be national. This bill, which you call the RD reform package, does not actually contain reform because, as I mentioned before, the credibility of these goals is a question of debate. We've all been through a process where you can't even get close to the goals you've set in your power. To increase the motivation of our children, we say, "Keep your goals high." We say, "Let your dreams be great." But the state can't be ruled by dreams. Realistic, accessible, not misleading Turkish people should be set up, and to achieve those goals, realistic work must be done again. As the National Movement Party, we always say that our main duty is to raise the welfare of our country, our nation, even more than duty. But when we look at the bill, the bill is not enough to compete with developed countries because the ruling party is avoiding the goals it has not achieved so far and cannot plan a structural reform to achieve the goals it envisions. Dear lawmakers, on the one hand, a power that strives to grow to developed countries with respect to RD is the drama of a young man who burns himself out of unemployment. As with many things, problems are like mountains, solutions are always imaginary. There is hope and promise, and the despair of those who are being played with their hopes as a result of their promises is as clear as day. The most striking example of unsatisfactory words is that another minister's promise to be knocked down by the other minister. It's in the memory of all of us and of our beloved nation at first, of course. Don't say things you don't believe in, don't do things you can't do, don't promise anyone what you can't do, just promise what you can do. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0233par0183	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, which are currently in session, provides and proposes the removal of the declaration in Article 2 of Article 13 of the Law Charter. Özkan Yımım (Ağük) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Uğuriye MP Özkan Yımım asking for a word on the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Yum.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0234par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, and the great Council, my dear friends, I have taken a pledge on Bill 97 and Article 13. I see that the support needed to develop the technology that will be encouraged and supported for RD is very well done and wanted to be done. However, before that, our citizens have very serious problems. As of the end of 2015, I'd like to tell you the troubles of our country's farmer. Look, at the end of 2015, a farmer paid $120 a year for his tractor as a traffic insurance policy, which, as you can see in 2016, he's paying $250, which is twice as much. So, what happened to inflation in Turkey? 8.8% in 2015 season. So, what's going on at 8%? The farmer's labor machine, the tractor, doubled, so the traffic insurance he only paid for increased twice as much. It uses the most expensive in Europe. Besides, what happened to the SEC he paid, the BUG-KUR? The monthly salary of the $430 paid BUG-KUR, the SEC, unfortunately, increased to 570 TL in 2016, 35 per cent, 36 per cent. I mean, what does that mean? You, our esteemed Minister and our executives, gave our farmer a spoon and took it back with a ladle. Besides, let's come to our normal citizen. Yes, what does a small vehicle, a family of citizens of the Republic of Turkey, pay for -- if not today's small vehicles? In 2015, 250 TL traffic insurance was paid, while in 2016 it was $750. So three times the total, 300 percent up, I repeat, 300 percent. But what was inflation? I'll say it again, 8.8. Now, about the cars our little shopkeeper drives, the kind of truck that drives. In 2015, the traffic insurance he paid to his truck in order to bring the goods to his shop in order to carry out his own business reached 800 euros when it was worth 376 euros. So that's about three times as much as 300 percent. I repeat, inflation at 8.8%. Here's to our commercial taxi, which we use today to get rid of traffic problems, the commercial taxis that we use in İzmir, İstanbul, Ankara, all the provinces, our workers, the ones that get us where we want to go, the commercial taxis that we use. In 2015, a commercial taxi paid 800 TL traffic policy a year, which is now $1,844 in 2016. That's about three times as many. I repeat, inflation is 8.8%. As for public transportation, the precious MPs, the buses. In 2015, when a bus paid 1,500 TL traffic policy -- it seems that the big employers were slightly protected -- their policy only increased 80 percent, 90 percent; they had protection, but they also increased by 8.8%, while their traffic policy increased by about 90 percent. Yes, and what our senior captains, who carry the needs of the world and Turkey in order to sustain human life, are responsible for transport, and what our shipping companies pay. The traffic policy paid by a truck, a regular truck, in 2015, was $1,750, so that's 3,000 dollars today, so that's twice as much. Here's to our biggest mover. Look, if you don't mind, the price of a tow truck is here, the biggest number, so to stop the trucker, you're doing everything you can to stop the mover. In 2015, a truck's traffic policy of a tow truck, worth $2,500, unfortunately reached 6.370 TL. In Europe, Bulgaria, Belgium, the Netherlands, this tow truck's traffic policy is only 650 euros, but Turkey is 1,900 euros.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0235par0206	They're bandits, bandits! It's not the government, it's Crazy Dumrul, Crazy Dumrul!
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0234par0207	Minister, how do you explain this? I'm really curious as a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. It's really sad.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0236par0209	Thank you, Mr. Yim.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0234par0210	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0236par0211	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the decimal be replaced as" comma " and" comma" after the statement "after the "phone" in Article 2 of Article 13 of Law Bill 97, which is currently in session. Mahmoud Toğrul (Gaziantep) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree? - We don't agree, Mr. President. Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul is demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0237par0222	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, of course colleges are where RD activities actually happen. Now, with a survey, I'd like to give you a little attention to the problems at the universities. Dear friends, the problem with a survey study is that there are a lot of problems, but I'd like to focus on a few. First, the appointment of deans or university principals at universities should be made comfortable without university opinions or merits taken into consideration. Dear friends, being dean or principal of a university has been left entirely between the pastor's two lips and can become a fundamental scientist, a dean of science, or a principal of the university. Another important problem, dear friends, is that staff ads are delivered to an address at universities. There are ads for all of you officers. I'd like him to go to the net and see a few of the ads. There's a description of an ad that, if you write the name of the person, maybe there are a few people in Turkey who have the same name, but it's such an ad that no one else has a chance to apply except that person. Directly, for example, puts the title on the doctor. He puts an ad in the doc's title, says: "To have a Ph.D. on this subject. " Precious friends are made a doctorate on one subject, and if the other one is done, it's done to refute it, but when ours are putting up an ad, they go on the way to hiring by putting on a PhD title or a master's thesis title. Dear friends, again, the chair of the main science department is never elected, but it is also based on closeness to the chancellor. Again, another item, investigative staff. Dear friends, there's a person who's not considered before the need is being discussed where the task force will be opened. I'm a one-on-one professor, dear friends. Again, I'd like to talk about another item. There is a basic requirement for those who have finished their Ph.D. to be close to the chancellor in order to advance to post-doctoral staff. If you're not close to the chancellor, you'll wait. In fact, it's on all the staff. For example, the person who is speaking now has been a professor in this country for ten years, not only is he not close to the chancellor, but he is dear friends. I was a professor who had been held up for five years as a professor because we criticized the chancellor. Fortunately, when the congregation fought, the AKP, the congregation fell into one another, we got out of the way. Again, another substance, dear friends, a mobbing for targeted people. Right now, the main problem with colleges is mobbing, dear friends. You're so upset about a person who doesn't act the way you want to, who doesn't stay close to you like you want to... it's a mobbing rag. And if that professor holds a bird with his mouth, he can't get support from a fund, he can't do a study, he can't do a raise, he can't do anything. Dear friends, one of the most important problems in universities is the request for staff against the wishes of the department. For example, the science faculty where I'm in the chemistry department -- which is illegal -- is the head of the department, but because it's close to the administration, it's not opposed, so the head of the department's adverts without his permission, and the target is selected for the cast. Of course, it's very possible to raise these problems, especially the problems of academics, but the problems of technical staff, administrative staff and students are probably in all of your knowledge. In the case of the dorms, the investigations against students have been raised by the knee. Only 97 students have been suspended from Malatya Inönu University recently, dear friends. This is a tribute to you, suspending 97 students.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0238par0230	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0237par0231	I want a sufficient number of decisions, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0238par0232	After we've processed...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0237par0233	Mr. President, look, about your attitude...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0238par0234	Now, wait a minute, wait a minute. I'll vote on the item. But, once we're processed...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0237par0235	I haven't sat down yet, but I haven't, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0238par0236	You can't sit down, so I'm sorry if I'm not going to do the procedure because you're always up.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0237par0237	President, you've started to traditionalize this attitude.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0238par0238	I submit to your votes the Article 2 of Article 13: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Now, there are two motions on article 14: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "a year and a half for those who have high licenses" -- two years for those who have high licenses -- and two years for those who have doctored" -- be replaced as "three years for those who do doctor." Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan Celal Adan Ruhi Ersoy Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mustafa Mit Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The fees for over forty-five hours a week and additional working hours cannot benefit from this exception." We offer and propose that the statement be removed from the article text. İdris Baluken Mahmut Toğrul Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Müslüm Doğan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Diyarbakır MP İdris Baluken has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0239par0260	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Sure, there's something important going on. There is talk of a legal arrangement on RD and a legal arrangement on freedoms and levels of development in the academy. In all the views we've expressed here, we've always expressed that this level of growth is directly related to the development of the level of democracy in our country. So if there's no democracy in a country, it's not possible to make progress in that country in the academy, nor do we think it's possible to create any solution with this kind of palliative RD law. Unfortunately, Turkey still has the problem of freedom of thought and expression, Turkey still has the problem of freedom of press, Turkey still has the problem of having a structure related to democratic, scientific, autonomous universities come to life. So it's already unrealistic to expect an improvement, along with a palliative analysis of the A.R.G. from a university, a university that is under guardianship, an academia community. The AKP's government repeatedly shouted that it would lift the guardianship of the universities, promising all people of Turkey in the election squares; that it would change the Constitution of September 12th; that the coup would remove the SEC, which was within the institutions of the constitution, that it would correct the current situation with the National Security Council; however many times it has demonstrated its commitment in its work, it has protected both the constitution of coup and its coup institutions after it has been ruled over the state. So in some ways, the AKP has brought up all the problems we've had, unfortunately, to this day, a continuation of a status quo through its own state-owned understanding. When there was a creep like the SEC in the middle, when he had a sense of custody like the SEC on universities, he didn't get enough of it, and he brought a palace custody over universities, so no academics, no rectors, who contradicted the court today. Now, unfortunately, the AKP created an environment that would be impossible to hold on to in college, let alone do a scientific research, do a study that would contribute to science. So, in the last few weeks, on this council bench, we will not be a party to your war crimes. We have repeatedly expressed here the conclusion faced by academics who say, "We will not be a party to your war crimes." 1,128 academics have been subjected to a full lynching campaign of AKP (AKP) and the palace simply because they are against war, simply because they do not accept crimes against humanity. Many were taken from universities and taken to courtrooms; many were kept in custody for days; many had to leave their jobs. So here we have to evaluate RD over an environment in which many academics are unemployed because of their ideas. Thus, in such an environment, the development of R&D is impossible to achieve freedom in the academy. And, of course, during the AKP period, processes have been carried out, specifically, for all of these scientific boards to be subject to a staffing and to be structured within themselves in line with the Turkish-Islam synthesis. So imagine that TÜBITAK can see himself as he sees the courage to collect 50,000 books in this country and use them to evaluate them through domesticity and nationality. It's impossible to talk about any scientific freedom here, freedom of thought and expression, where there's no freedom of speech, and I'm saying it's not possible to develop any solutions in this way with the palliative RD laws. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0240par0268	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "a year and a half for those who have high licenses" -- two years for those who have high licenses -- and two years for those who have doctored" -- be replaced as "three years for those who do doctor." Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoglu demanding a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0241par0280	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, first of all, I salute you all. Minister, I wish you'd agreed, because, you know, two years of master's and three years of doctor's. I mean, abroad in particular... INTERVIEWING, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOJI You know, when you take out the part about the courses, you know, the whole tax-exempt thing, it's connected to... It's the master's and the doctorate who will do the best research in RD, because they're putting out new things. Thus, in order to achieve a better outcome in this regard, in fact, the acceptance of two and three years, as in the rules, as in grad school and PhD. Dear friends, we call it "AR-Ge" - research development. Now, first of all, it's the engine of a country, research and development, new innovations, and a number of new discoveries that will guide the country are of great importance to the development of the country. For this to happen, the numerator must be increased by 2.01 per cent in China, 2.85 per cent in Germany, 3.47 per cent in Japan, 4.15 per cent in South Korea, while our gross national product is 1 per cent in 2013 according to other World Bank data. Now, first of all, let me make it very clear that in order for a country's democracy to be established, people who know, ignorance, must be eliminated. For that reason, as I have just said, they are intellectuals and researchers who will serve as locomotives. If you give researchers sufficient value, you can place democracy if you give them sufficient attention to merit. You can't go anywhere with an ignorant person, so you can make the law you want, and you'll always be in trouble if there are no serious people in certain places or authorities or a community that suits it. Now, if people with guns don't obey the law and they rebel against the government, then the government has a right to fight them. As a result, what we call the "democracy" is personal, brutal, and the rights and freedoms to be given to the people are actually carried out in this framework. Like I said, merit is extremely important. Even Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror has passed a law on righteousness in the Ottoman Empire. What missions are defined by who will come from what tasks. I mean, if you bring in the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister to wear someone who's never served a state post in college, he'll do some wrong things there because he doesn't know the wheel of the government. But if there are people who know how to do it, then it's easier to do it. I'll give you an example: from 1700 to 1850, central administration, Ottoman State, or the Court of Humanity, in an application period of 1 50 years, the answer is 0.7 days as soon as possible. The longest response period is 13.5 days. On average, the average average of 150 years is 5.3° in central bureaucracy. Now, think about it, a state that runs this kind of red tape even when there's no network. Why? It's because he brought men of merit to their rightful place. So I'd like to say that if we don't support the people who are doing some new research in our country, then we won't be able to put a decent person in place and bring him where he deserves to be. You can't bring in political and ideological people to the head of scientific organizations. So those who have the title of scientists can't be in ideology. They can't be in ideology, and if they are, they make the wrong decisions, they put the laws of the state aside and start looking at things differently. So 1,200 of you doesn't mean anything. So the information that you're putting out here is whether or not you're acting within the rules of the state. If you are a scientist, you will be objective, and you will not be involved in any ideology. I want to say one more thing here. Those with contracts from researchers, which is 50/d, are terminated after finishing their Ph.D. You shouldn't leave it to the president. If there's already a need for a grown man -- which some rectors don't accept for ideological reasons -- it's necessary to remove this 50/d. Otherwise, it can be done: If we do it to developing universities, we can get this doctorate from the staff of developing universities into advanced universities, and then they can come back. This 50/d is in a very painful situation, which needs to be corrected. My respects to all of you. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] We're working on it right now.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0242par0295	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... the 14th article is accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances on the first section are complete. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter includes 15 to 33, including the 15th Articles of the Interim Articles 4 and 5th Articles. The first word for the groups on the second chapter is from Samsun MP Erhan Usta. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Master. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0243par0305	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party for Action on the second part of the R&amp;D Bill we're talking about. I salute you all again. Now, RD is a major issue. So if we go back a little bit, what did Turkey actually do in the last 10 or 15 years or 20 years? He moved a significant portion of the employment from agriculture to the service industry to some industry. By doing so, we actually moved from the low income group to the middle income group. However, the way to move from the middle income group to the higher income group is to produce technology, to commercialize technology, to brand and make revenue. Especially since 2000, I've expressed it from time to time in my previous talks, and Turkey has entered the demographic window of opportunity, so we have one thirty years ahead of us, 15 years past that. I'm afraid there's no way to say 15 years has been very productive. But in the remaining 15 years, if we develop this technology, if we develop our population, if we employ our population in the production of high-profile products, then we'll be able to overcome the middle-income trap. Otherwise, when we can't do it, it'll be inevitable for us to stay as many countries remain in the middle-income trap. Now, Turkey is having a serious growth problem, a problem of not growing up. We've always said that in our previous conversations, it's already known. He's having a problem growing up, and he's actually having an open business problem. Two problems at the same time, both problems actually affect each other. It's a big part of our problem of not growing up, we don't actually have enough savings, we can't invest. Unfortunately, our chances of increasing our savings are limited, so it needs to be increased. So, there's no way we can invest as much as we can afford to invest in similar countries. So we're only investing 20 per cent when there's about 35 per cent of national income invested in precedent countries. What's left? Through employment -- it has its limits -- it remains to grow, but most importantly, to grow through efficiency. So, it's going to overcome Turkey's problems in front of Turkey, and it's going to solve this bottleneck, and it's going to increase the efficiency of the total factor, it's going to increase the efficiency of the total factor. What do we call total factor efficiency? Well, it's really everything but employment and investment. So what we're talking about here today is RD support, innovation, innovation -- whatever you want to call it -- the legal system, the education system, the public administration, the training of manpower, the training of the labor force, it's all really what we call factor efficiency. But in the growth of total factor efficiency, we regret to say that after 2007, we have a very bad performance. The performance was not bad until 2007, but in 2007-2013, total factor efficiency was a negative contribution to growth. I mean, actually, the best way to grow is when this is the area, and this is where the negative contribution comes from. If total factor efficiency had been zero, Turkey would have grown 3.9 during the 2007-2013 period. Unfortunately, 3.4 is growing because there's only half a point missing from here. So we need to increase the contribution of total factor efficiency to growth. As I've just said, the way to do this is to go through the RD issue that we're seeing here today. This has to go further, of course. I'll try to express them in a moment. Now, we're saying we're having a current problem. The other thing, of course, is that an economy that can't produce will have a current problem. It's inevitable for an economy that can't produce, that doesn't save money to have this problem. Now, another event is that, unfortunately, there's a technological decline in our exports or our production -- whatever you buy -- that doesn't change. So you can compare it to the previous 2002. When you look at this comparison, there's a decline in the share of high-tech products. There's an increase in low technology in medium technology, but what's important is that there's a decline in the share of high-tech products. Well, when we look at what's happened in the last few years, I'm more concerned about the 2013-2014 development. Unfortunately, here, friends, the share of high-tech products doesn't change once a year, but we're going from the bottom of the middle to the low-tech, which is very, very significant. From 35.3 to 36.6 is the share of low-tech technology. So when we're trying to increase the share of high-tech, the quality goes even lower. You know what this gives birth to? This once breeds a serious wage competition. So you have to compete over the price. It's basically the problem with raising the minimum wage today. The other thing is, when technology density is low, energy density is high. We're already dependent on outer energy, and our dependency is increasing because low-tech products consume high energy. So that's one of the other factors that's already increasing our external dependence on energy. So we need to increase the level of technology. Now, when we come to the bill that we discussed today, unfortunately -- Mr. Minister of Industry and the President of the Commission may forgive me -- this is a bill designed in Eastern Bloc logic. Why do I say that? Because increasing competitiveness is about creating your own unique technology. Now, there are two phases to this. The first phase is to support the RD, produce RD-based information, and convert it into a prototype. But more importantly, there's a second phase after that. So that the technology that came out of RD was produced to provide more money and prosperity, more money and prosperity. Now, this, this second phase, is completely neglected in this bill. You only support the first one, the RD, but you may not get any results. So it may not be possible to turn this into income or prosperity. Now, in this second phase, how is this going to turn technology into more money and prosperity? The way to do that is to commercialize. Trade programs, unfortunately, very little here. For once, mass production facilities need to be built, investments need to be made. We're going to go back to the same point at the beginning; we need to save money, we need resources to invest. Secondly, the patent, license, accordion, standardization, certification of technology needs to be done. These are in this bill, unfortunately, neglected. At the final stage, it needs to be branded, and it needs to be sold in the best possible way. Now, unfortunately, we never see this second phase in this law. And that's a big flaw, which needs to be fixed as soon as possible. That's why the Eastern Bloc countries went down. So they were strong in phase one, but when you can't do phase two, when you can't commercialize it and turn it into income and prosperity, your work doesn't mean much. Therefore, this deficiency must be repaired at once. Now, of course, in phase one, you spend the real money, it takes a long time, it's long, it's risky, and it's expensive. So you're trying to do something about your worst stages, in the most difficult, difficult phases, but if you ignore the level where you're going to eat it, what you're doing, the risks you're taking, the costs you're doing, the country, the economy, the nation, it's not going to do much good. So the second phase -- there may be no way to add to this bill right now -- has to be put here in particular in terms of commercialization. Now, of course, we need a marketing, marketing innovation, organization innovation, process innovation, to transform this product into more money and prosperity as a continuation of the second phase. So it's not a reform in this sense, unfortunately, it's a sad expression. The reform would be complete, reform would be a combination of these two phases we just talked about. It's not that I don't underestimate the work of RD, but it's not going to do the expected benefit, unfortunately, to be limited to this. If we can't do that, as I said at the beginning of my speech, there will be no way to get Turkey from middle income to higher income. So this bill, essentially, needs to be developed in this framework that we're looking at, needs to be enhanced. If we do this, we'll be doing a great service for Turkey. With wishes and wishes to do so, I salute your grand delegation, thank you all very much.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0244par0326	Thank you, Mr. Master. The second word on behalf of the groups belongs to İstanbul MP Didem Engin, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Engin. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0245par0331	Mr. President, how do international institutions assess Turkey's work towards RD, technology and innovation, compared to the 4th Industrial Revolution of the world, the Internet of objects, the intelligent devices and systems, when they talk about a period when artificial intelligence and intelligent factories are integrated? I'd like to share with you a few objective views and evaluations. In the European Union Progress Report of 2015, Turkey is classified as modestly innovative, with almost all indicators below the EU average. Turkey is either below average or among the last five or six countries in the OECD report on National, Science and Innovation Systems. Among the 140 countries compared with the Global Competition Report of the World Economic Forum, Turkey ranked as the 45th in 2014 and is ranked 51st in 2015. The report assesses competitiveness based on 12 criteria, one of which is innovation. In 2014, Turkey was ranked 56/th in innovation, while 2015, it was ranked 60. Turkey's situation in world rankings on technology, RD, innovation is so bad, it is unfortunate that the government has no realistic and comprehensive approach to long-term goals that go beyond the sound of its rhetoric and daily steps. In 2007, the government's 60th government programme aimed to increase the share of the AKP's national income from R&D to 2 per cent by 2013. In 2013, it was 0.95. In six years alone, the AKP was able to increase its ratio from 0.72 to 0.95, from 2007 to 2013. So not even half of the target was accomplished, but no one came out and said, "We have failed to fulfill our goals." The government tried to shut down this failure without further analysis of why the targets could not be met, and without facing the facts. How? Raise the target. While he had not yet achieved 1 percent, it was intended to be 3% of the national income in 2023. It's a good target, but how? If we look at other countries around the world, Finland spends 3.55 per cent of its illegal domestic product on RD, Sweden 3.41, Japan 3.55. Each of the three countries performs 3 per cent of what we target for 2023 today. In 2020, each three countries aim to increase that rate to 4 percent, so they aim to increase it from around 3.5 to 4 percent. In Turkey, the government aims at 3 per cent when it is below 1 per cent, so Turkey is the largest open country between its current condition and its target. It's not just about setting goals, it's about following a firm, realistic, responsible attitude to achieve them. When we study technologically powerful countries, we see that the most important thing that makes these countries different from any other country is its strong and qualified internal power. Unfortunately, we have one of our weakest areas. With such an important young population, there is no continuity or stability due to the frequent changes in our educational system. The biggest obstacle to RD and innovation is lack of creativity. It's different in our country when we need to be able to grow generations of creative, interrogating, investigating, accepting boundaries, not pushing boundaries, starting with pre-school years. A party that alone has been in power for 14 years has no reason not to fulfill its goals. For these fourteen years, your government has had nothing to do with education, science, technology, to achieve the necessary breakthroughs. For example, I would expect that in a government that alone is in power, two ministries of science and technology, the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, and the Ministry of National Education, to come together and present this RD law to our Parliament. I'd like the Minister of National Education to be here and present decisions that they've made with a more progressive approach than any other country to encourage scientific studies, to develop thought skills in primary and secondary education, to improve co-operation skills, to develop creativity, to develop interrogation. Unfortunately, that was not possible. The RD package we're talking about called for a meeting two days after it came to Parliament. So we only had two days to study the law proposal. In two meetings, seven hours in total, the bill passed through the Commission. We haven't been able to set up a subcommittee or listen to the experts and their associates in the Commission. And now the General Assembly will pass the law in a few hours. Instead of spending months of our country's energy on presidential debates, I'd like to spend months looking at R&D, technology, innovation, initiative, brandization, freedoms, freedom of speech, freedom of press, judicial independence, and the common mind to put our country in a stronger position in global competition. Freedom of thought loses its meaning when there is no freedom of speech, and where there is no freedom of thought, science is impossible to develop. Presenting modern and scientific educational opportunities and establishing a legal system that guarantees freedom of expression is one of the government's top priorities. You know, one of the most important factors to economic development is the growth of efficiency. Efficiency growth can be primarily achieved by technological development. Studies show that investments in technology, RD, innovation also increase efficiency, competitiveness and the growth rate of countries. In Finland, national income for each person reached $24,000 in 2000, reaching $50,000 in 2014, so in 14 years, from 2000 to 2014, it reached a higher level than twice as high. At the same time in South Korea, it jumped from 12,000 dollars in 2000 to $28,000 in 2014. In our country, it has been described as being in the middle income trap of our country, due to the fact that the national income per capita is stuck around 10,000 dollars from 2007 to today. According to the World Bank classification, the share of high-tech products in our country's exports is only 22% in China, 27% in France, 18% in the United States, 18% in Germany and Israel, 27% in Korea. These figures show that our middle-income country also carries the risk of a medium-tech trap. In addition to looking at other countries around the world, it is necessary not to ignore developments in global companies. In 2015, the Volkswagen spent $15.3 billion splitting up 5.7 per cent of its turnover into RD, spending 14.1 billion on 7.2 per cent of Samsung's turnover. Intel invested in $11.5 billion in 2015, splitting 20.6 per cent of its income into RD. Apple, the world's two most innovative companies, spent $6 billion on Google 9.8 billion on RD. In our country, industry, technology and RD are not easy to deal with. In 1999, the industry's share of national income was 30.2 per cent, while today it declined to 24 per cent. Instead of investing in industry in our country, it is preferred to be a contractor. In a country with a shopping centre, housing, residences, construction jobs that are far more profitable, investing in industry and R&D also requires a separate sacrifice. Finally, I would like to point out that there are positive steps in the package that we support, but our country needs revolutionary reforms, from a radical point of view, with a holistic and comprehensive vision, rather than an approach to solving everyday problems. In addition, making only laws does not solve problems, and in practice, it is necessary to create a fair, equitable, honest, objective approach, to promote the liberal view of universities, such as freeing universities, setting principles for public institutions and institutions, and that's the only time we can talk about real reforms. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0246par0347	The third word on behalf of the groups is for the Peoples' Democratic Party Group of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) MP Ahmet Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Initiating ten minutes of your time.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0247par0351	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow members of Congress, yes, there are, without a doubt, very different areas of political intervention in social life. There are many different processes of social life that have been open to political interference throughout the history of the Republic. However, even in the most backward countries, the process of science, research and innovation comes at the beginning of processes that will not, in particular, accept political intervention in the social processes. In this context, especially considering the size of universities, the political process of universities is the same as the history of the republic. We can't just claim that universities became political during AKP rule. The AKP was political during its rule, but before that, universities and research institutions became political. Throughout the history of the Republic, universities have never been free and open to the expression of free thought. In fact, the history of universities is a process where, in a sense, opposition thought, free thought is constantly being interfered with, interacted with, from 1940 to today. In 1948, because of their political thinking, there has always been interference in opposition thinking, social problems, especially solutions, but never, in 2005-2006, especially after the President's change in 2007, with universities being politicized, ideologised and camped in political universities. For example, a year and a half ago, it still hasn't been explained why the CEC President changed in Turkey, where the social structure didn't know, the universities didn't know, the academics didn't know, and we actually intervened. Because when the AKP was formed in 2001, one of the most important issues he wrote to the party's programme and the election declaration as he entered the November 3rd elections was that the 1980 coup and all the structures that were the product of his Constitution would be replaced; one of those structures was the WHO. When the first Minister of National Education Mumcu changed composition in their favor, especially when the university's academic staffing changed, and the rectorship changed after the 2007 presidential amendment, and started building political interventions for universities from their own initiatives, the universities began to become increasingly distant from being a place of science, education and research. On November 6, 2014 -- the anniversary of a fascist coup and the founding anniversary of the DSK, which collapsed on the universities -- for reasons no one has ever known -- was dismissed by the current President of the period, Gökhan Cetinsaya, and was appointed Prime Minister of Prime Minister of State under a decree. While this was especially the case in terms of higher education, there have been serious political interventions to research, RD and innovation institutions, which have been based on the organisation of parallel structures in the past year and two years, as well as on the basis of your ministry as research institutions. Surely it is important to increase funds in research institutions, without a doubt to increase personnel in research and innovation institutions, it is important to increase the physical and technical capacity of research institutions, but there is one thing that is more important than the importance of them, especially the process of controlling the research investments and staff employment here. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, especially at universities, universities, research centers, ÜBITAK (TUBIAK), ÜBA (TİBA) ministries and central budgets may have been increased. But let's not forget that the same projects that our children and our young were rejected without a preliminaries at the TÜBITAK competitions during this period have won the world's first place in international project competitions. Mr. President, this hum is going on and on.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0248par0358	Congressmans, let's not disturb the victim's people, please stop humming. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0247par0360	In particular, we have to say about the interventions in universities, that the university's professorial examinations have been entirely subjective from subjective criteria to subjective juries, or from the first research commission of academics, despite their performances in their linguistic processes, their later academic lives have been entirely dependent on political processes. On this basis, we are now faced with a composition of universities, which are more politically politicised than the conditions before the AKP came to power, especially during the AKP's time, with the promise of the removal of the SEC. I won't go into detail because it's often mentioned, but in the first place, the President made the statement to an academic declaration signed 1,128, and immediately after the President's statement, it's a sobering image of the conditions of universities and research institutions in Turkey, which are being introduced by the General Assembly of the YÖK General Assembly on the same day, and the disciplinary processes in the universities that put the instructions on the matter into effect on this matter immediately. We would basically like to express our concern that a university structure, which has tried to see the pressures that the universities did not see in military times and that the deficit, politicalisation, ideologies, even increased budgetary share, will no longer be closed, will be established in the coming period, in international processes where the university of Turkey, which is already not well-registered, will be evolved right as long as it is not read. Again, we all know that by increasing the number of universities in the country, by opening universities with each of them, or by opening universities or universities in every district, free thinking will not prevail in universities, and scientific studies will not be conducted through objective criteria. The problems of universities are now too deep to be solved by increasing the share of the resources that are being transferred there, by fixing the physical and technical capacity or by increasing the number of employees. On this basis, despite all the pressures and politicalization processes, I salute all of you with respect, once again, with respect, to those who exercise this profession, despite the interference of political power, despite the interference of political power, and by maintaining their conscience without compromise from the universal principles of the academy. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0249par0366	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. The first statement on behalf of the individuals is from İstanbul MP Hasan Sert. There isn't. The second statement is from Istanbul MP Engin Altay.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0250par0370	Mr. President, if you don't mind, I'd like to hand over the floor to our Istanbul MP, Mr. Ali Candy.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0249par0371	Here you go, Mr. Sugar. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes, please.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0251par0374	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our General Assembly. We, the CHP, take a positive view of the overall bill. I have made a promise to explain my views on the bill. Before industrialisation, lawmakers, who had previously expressed their views, talked about high-profit products, the financial value of software companies. The general reason for the bill is the production of high-end products, the commercialisation of information, the concepts such as ▪ Technological companies. The work that will develop modern agricultural production techniques in our country should also be supported by RD. This is the only way we can prevent intense migration into major cities. We don't expect you to support agriculture production when the main goal of your power is to create an unsecured, subcontractorial, cheap labor force in small cities. You're saying that in your 13 years of power, you've given RD support for industrialization. So what you've accomplished, let's just share: You've designed uninhabitable cities that get cancer from concrete density. You've created troubled cities where school, roads, parks are not enough, people are unhappy, everyone is looking for an opportunity to escape. You've designed freaky projects like Canal Istanbul, which scientists oppose. You're implementing environmental enemy projects to create a random transformation because someone ordered you to. You have an RD called a local car. In order to make it cheaper, you even made the local car available to foreigners and abroad. For example, you made endless subways where we saw the example in Goatsure. In Istanbul, you destroyed hundreds of thousands of passengers a day between Sirkeci and the Ring. You punished our people for not voting for you in the area where the line serves. In order to create only one type of person who thinks like you do, you conducted another design study, especially in the media. You punish those who do not think as you do by saying, "You will either be on your side, or you will be eliminated." You threw Can Dündar, Erdem Gül, into the Silivri dungeons because he didn't follow your design. You've made military junta weight the crown, punished scientists. You said social media is harmful. Hey, Facebook! You said, "O Twitter!" You've created EC trolls and AK trolls who don't think or criticize people like you. We've solved the healthcare system. You said. Other than legislature activities, the most we're dealing with is helping people who can't be treated in hospitals to solve their health problems. We had a self-inflicted institution that produced its own vaccine, and we are no longer a country that can produce vaccines, as you have made Turkey an agricultural country that can't produce its own agricultural products and make it dependent on Israel, just as you have made Turkey a country that imports hay and imports meat. In order for RD policies to succeed, we need a very well-functioning educational system. The Republic revolution brought into our lives in the 1935-1940s a system of education that was nowhere in the world in the circumstances of that day. This was the biggest RD activity of the period for Turkey. We all know Saint Sancar. With the Nobel Prize he received, we were proud of him. I succeeded because I was raised by teachers who graduated from village institutes. I owe my success to the good education I received. As a result of your design for confiscation of universities, the medical schools of Istanbul Medical School and other universities who raised it went into debt, thanks to you, and became unable to produce science. I'm afraid you've broken up the science nests. The village institutes were a special training exercise. Teachers were trained not only in one branch, but in any field that would contribute to their environment. At that time, no one was opposed to culture, art, music, poetry, film, and novel. These RD activities need to be redesigned in accordance with today's conditions of the village institutes. We need an educational system that understands new production techniques, which will take these techniques further by using technology. Of course, we don't believe that your power, which has changed five Minister of Education in 13 years, destroyed the entire education system, will succeed. These things don't happen, and if we don't make the agricultural production revolution we need, we can't make industrial development, and we can't raise staffs to produce high-income products. Turkish engineers have already studied the satellite launched by Russians from Kazakhstan Baykonur Space Base, which is made by Japanese Mitsubishi, which we consider distant relatives, so the satellite is all ours. But no one will believe it. I thank you all for listening, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0252par0389	Thank you. Now, there will be a question-answer procedure on the second part for 15 minutes. I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who have entered the system for a minute to ask them a question. We'll use half the time to answer the question, and the rest for the answer. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0253par0392	Minister, first of all, in your election declaration, you made a promise that the minimum wage would be $1,300. This was to be put into practice without any burdens brought to the employer, but unfortunately, there is a problem here, why did you apply it this way? If you did that without burdening the employer, at least you would have reduced the burden of production. My second question is, it's not really about you, but in general, city halls get a wastewater price from neighborhoods where they don't serve sewers. When are you going to stop the unfair practices of the city's municipalities so that this unfair and illegal waste water costs will not be taken, even though it is not legally possible? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0254par0395	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0255par0396	Mr. Secretary, last year, as you know, Deep Harbor was privatized in March. In doing this privatisation, a 450 square metre sea filling was allowed. We're talking about 450 meters to the Lake side, a 1km to the coast, even though you said that the mayor of the city and even the governor of that period would no longer have fillings in the seas, that we had 43 ports, and that this filling would not be allowed. Although this area is said to be considered a container port, it will be equipped with tanks of LPG tanks and other dangerous fuels, and the number of trucks entering the Bigeli will increase by around 10,000. How do you allow this or why do you prefer to remain silent? Now there's so much he can do for her...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0254par0398	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0256par0399	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, has your government ever called the PYD organization to Ankara? If he did, how many times did he call? What were the topics discussed? For this day, your government calls the PYD (PYD) the terrorist group, if you have called the leader of the PYD (PYD) to Turkey, has been discussed -- you call the terrorist organization -- does that not mean aiding and abetting? Also, if you are called a terrorist organization, do you have a decision by the Council of Ministers that the PKK is a terrorist organization? Have you announced it in the official newspaper? In this sense, there's always this kind of pollution of information in public, can you give me any clear information about that? Another question: the assets of the raid conglomerate were seized by the trustee. The mother of Akin İpek is, unfortunately, not taken into the house by changing the keys to her home. There's no eviction notice, there's no ruling, there's no decision to intervene. I want to know what kind of legal system does it take for a person not to get home locked up like this? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0257par0404	Mr. Tarhan, come in.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0258par0405	Mr. Secretary, Gebze Fatih Hospital, Darica Farabi Hospital is fully occupied; the Fatih Hospital, which is being built in Gebze, will not be enough for 400 beds and 400 beds. There is a request from our people in the meadow area to build a hospital for Çasarova. Is there a hospital investment in the 2016 investment budget?
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0259par0406	Short, succinct, clear. That's how we expect the answer.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0257par0407	Mr. Reader...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0260par0408	He launched the presidential National Education Support Campaign in 2001-2002. In this framework, the Governorate of Isparta organized various events, attended by 31,000 students, and put their allowances directly into this educational campaign and built an elementary school, and in Isparta, the name of this school was the Isparta Student Elementary School. It was also a very exemplary project for the education itself, and later different provinces applied it as an example. But recently, a local teacher, Sevim teacher, was in a car accident. After the car accident, Mr. Secretary called the family and told them that they would keep the Sevim teacher alive, that they would name a school after them, and that's what they called the School of Elementary. We don't know if we can give it another name in the locals, the right approach...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0257par0410	Mr. Tuncer...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0261par0411	Mr. Secretary, BUG-KUR bonuses were $568 in 2016 with a huge increase. The small tradesman is a victim. Do you have any interest in lowering the BUG-KUR bonus? Our second question is: The garbage collection is held only one day a week in Amasya's closed city municipalities, Takibi, Esençay, Alpaslan, Kayaduzüzü and Uygur, and not even the waste of the stove is collected. Are you going to make this completely unhealthy and unsanitary garbage collection more affordable and healthy? In fact, do you have a study of re-opening the closed city municipalities, which are the correct procedure? My third question is that even though the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism has needs and needs, vets are not appointed. What kind of work does the Ministry have? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0262par0415	Mr. Adıyaman...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0263par0416	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the Iğdır-Kars-Ardahan-Hopa road is actually the shortest and shortest road between Georgia and, again, the port of Tripoli and Iran. This is a 120km zone between Iğdır-Kars and is now a single stripe, but it's almost stable. Does your government have a program to project and build this road between Iğdır and Kars? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0264par0419	Now to answer the questions, I give the word to Science, Industry and Technology Minister Fikri Il Bey. Here you go, Mr. Light. Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. President, our fellow lawmakers who have been asking questions so far, especially if the minimum salary of Mr. Arslan is not burdening the employer... if there's a burden, it's essential to split it. Taking the full burden of this matter above the state means that the state will distribute what it has taken and indirectly collect it from all citizens again. After all, we don't have oil coming out of the ground, we don't have underground wealth.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0265par0423	But it was your promise, it was to be made clear. INTERVIEW, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGY BASIC - At the point of the right division of this burden, our government has done its best. Turkey needs to pay particular attention to its budget balances, it needs to be more careful at its budget deficit and at the point of public debt. At this point, the government took over 10 billion Turkish liras a year from the employer's back, but it is necessary for the employer to carry a 10-billion-dollar burden. This is also a situation that should happen in terms of Turkey's reality. Since I'm not responsible for the wastewater issue of the other capital city municipality, hopefully, friends will pass it on to concerned friends, ministries, where they'll get answers. Since Deep Harbor is in my own knowledge, I'd like to respond specifically. Our biggest problem is the existence of small piers. This has a negative effect on our sea life and life in our bay. Our attitude here is clear and clear, that instead of everyone making their own little piers in the bay, it's really professional. Deep Harbor is one of the oldest -- as far as I know -- and one of the most efficient ports in our region. I'm saying it because it's a place I know very well from land and sea. Mr. Akar isn't here...
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0266par0428	Here, here. Yes, because it's a place I know very well. We don't have a chance to give everyone random ports in the bay, but we also think it's right and necessary for Deep Harbor to provide porting services in line with the scale economy. Other than that, we're definitely against the application that I'm going to build a pier in front of every factory. And at this point, we've kept our position, but it's really going to be a port service, like Deepland Harbor, which is not a filling facility, but a study for the container port, which is why I'm telling you because I know Deep Harbor... and I know the terrain. Right now, there's a breakthrough right next to the existing port, and I'm specifically saying that it's a very right approach for the economy to be filled up and to allow large-scale ships to dock a little bit longer.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0267par0430	Come on, Mr. Secretary. There's no such thing, you know. There are 5 million cubic metres of filling there, and you said we wouldn't allow a filling. Mr. Tanal. The Pyd is clearly a terrorist organization. I don't have any information that the PYD has been summoned to Ankara. I don't have to answer about the Council of Ministers because it's not my field. I really don't have any information right now. Mr. Tarhan, I'm saying this because it has something to do with Bigeli again. Yes, Farabi Hospital, you know, started in 1992, but it was finished quickly during our reign. Right now, we're renovating the entire Fatih State Hospital. A 400-bed, highly modern hospital, hopefully the second half of this year will be the latest in service. We're not content with that; we're now moving a 60-acre land into the Ministry of Health from the national real estate. We're also working on putting a very modern hospital in the 2017 budget, which is suitable for this 60-acre area.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0268par0433	We're applauding too.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0267par0434	Cartepe, Cartepe, 100,000 populations, Mr. Secretary, no major hospitals in 50 cities, no courthouses. I can't answer Mr. Readan's question because I don't know the details of the question, but a school made by the students is really very valuable to me. As an educator, I care a lot about that, too. It's extremely valuable that those two lira contributions, five liras, and ten lira contributions have become a school. I will personally convey this particular thing of yours to our Minister of National Education. This is lowering the BUG-KUR bonuses, right now, because it's not my field, I don't know if there's a clear study. But we don't have any work to do with the reopening of closed city municipalities. We did this for the good of Turkey, and after that, Turkey's... look, the public source is the source of the nation's resources, it's a decision made to not be squandered, it's right to use them, and at this point it's a decision made for the public to work efficiently and effectively in every way. And we're particularly interested in keeping that decision. You know, there were 45 municipalities in Alexandria; 36 of them were municipalityd in the city; there are now 13 municipalities -- including the capital city. Our smallest municipality has 45,000 inhabitants, and indeed the capacity to produce services has increased greatly. The mayor's salary, his chief of staff, and his car's fuel are no longer paid for all the municipal funds. I mean, since I'm the mayor, I'm pretty sure I can tell. In small-scale municipalities, unfortunately, municipalities are unable to produce services. Since money was sent to the head of the population, it is impossible for those funds to return to the ministry, the fact that fixed costs were so high made such a decision necessary for Turkey, and the government made this decision at the cost of actually paying a political price. And I'm pretty sure right now that a lot of closed-down municipalities now go to those municipalities as services to the people who live in those municipalities. Mr. Adıyaman's question is will there be an Ildir-Kars-Ardahan-Hopa road? To be honest, I don't have that information right now, but I'm a friend of yours who's been to that area. From the pain to the Iğdır, from the Iğdur, from the Kars, from Ardahan, from there to Shabshat, from there to Artvin and Hopa. Right now, you know, we have a very serious road attack in Turkey. During the AK PARTI rule, we made a double route of nearly 20,000km, connecting Turkey with a road network, connecting the Black Sea to the Mediterranean, to the East to the West.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0269par0440	Especially Iran... RIGHT now, of course, it's very important to connect Iran's connections to the Black Sea through both Rizzol and through Artvin. I don't have very specific information at a project point like this, but really right now, you know, at a lot of points, we're doing very serious work. From now on, our path from the Army to Sivas (Sivas) and from there to the Mediterranean Sea continues. We're putting Turkey in a double road and highway thing. I hope there's a project like this, because every investment we make at a road point is an investment that enhances both the economic and social well-being of Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Investments in the last 14 years, investments in the past 13 years are enough for all of us. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit07spe0270par0445	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thus, the talks on the second chapter are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. I submit to your votes the temporary Article 4 of the 15th Amendment: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes the interim Article 5 of Article 15: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'm taking a three-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-02-11sit08spe0270par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. At a meeting of the advisory council on Thursday (11/02/2016), it has been agreed that the meeting of the General Assembly on Friday (12/02/2016), previously agreed on, should be presented to the approval of the General Assembly. Coşkun Çakır Engin Altay İdris Baluken Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party Peoples' Democratic Party His group is acting president of the vice president of the vice president group. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We'll resume the talks of Bill 97. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Under the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (February 16th 2016) to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00. Have a good weekend.
