tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Members of parliament, we will continue talks on the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. In the past year's merger, Article 8 of the 2017 Centre Management Budget Law was adopted. Investment Expenses, Mahalistic Administrations and Fund-related Sentences No project can be spent on except projects on additional investment tables for the MADDE 9- (1) 2017 Investment Programme. The project or investment allowance of the year 2017 can not be less than 10 per cent of the project's cost (except for years of projects which have been paid collectively in these frameworks (except for urban rail transport systems and subway construction projects and other railway construction and attracting vehicle projects, which will be carried out by the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications). Projects can be revised if needed for the underlying project and work, by implementing the 2017 Year Programme, following the Co-ordination and Tracking Decision basis and staying in the investment funds of institutions in the first place. (2) The implementation of the 2017 Year Programme on public administration's annual projects, the grants in the central management programme, the implementation of machinery-results, large repairs, maintenance-renewation, completion, computer software and equipment projects, as well as the detailed programmes of sub-projected projects, and the implementation of collective projects that have been tasted and not implemented in the process, Coordination and Surveillance. (3) Adding funds for investment projects in the budgets of the central administration of public administrations, and transfers are linked to the investment programme based on the procedure and basis in the Act of the 2017 Annual Programme, Co-ordination and Tracking Decision. (4) Applying, Co-ordinating and Watching the Year Programme for mandatory changes to additional investment tables in the 2017 Investment Programme during the year is followed by procedures in the Court's decision. (5) Under Article 28/A of the Law on Offices and Tasks of the Interior Ministry No. 3152 and Article 10 of the Law, the grants to be recorded in the budget of 2017 are linked to projects in the Investment Programme by the project owner of the Ministry of Development, provided it gives information to the Ministry of Development. The first statement on the nineth article is from Ankara MP Mustafa MİT. Here you go, Mr. MIT. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0002par0025	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 9 of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill. Before we begin my words, I pray for the mercy of God to our policemen, to our citizens, to those who have been injured, to those who have been killed in the terrorist attacks in our country. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Dear MPs, Turkey is trying to divide by hiding behind concepts that no one can object to, such as peace, love, brotherhood, justice, democracy, human rights, freedom. We have to stop this together. The government that approaches its citizens with compassion must show the traitors its fist of steel with power and power. The National Movement Party is with the state and its nation to the end in the fight against terrorism. Dear lawmakers, the budget is one of the most important regulatory tools in the economy, and another feature is a social contract that regulates revenue sharing. The goal of investments is development, social and economic development. For these results, the creation of the appropriate climate is the main task of the political institution. The facility of political and economic stability depends on the stability of the legal system with all its institutions. It is not possible to talk about political and economic stability in an environment where the legal system does not give confidence. There is a political and economic crisis in our country at the moment. Despite the majority of parliament, the political uncertainty is due to the inadequacy of the staff's predictions for the future. Our political life, which gives an unpredictable image, must be restored to the building that gives confidence in the inside and the outside. The fact that 14 years of AKP rulings have different political preferences and different alliances in fundamental political matters has created a security issue. Their efforts to implement anti-responsive views have led to the dissolution of veiled coalitions at a level of hostility. July 15th is a sign of this veiled coalition. The fundamental problems of Turkey's separatist terror have not been eliminated. For 14 years, we've reached the point of mass terrorism from zero terror to today. This is what happens when confusion about the causes of problems dominates the political institution. Terror should be fought, not negotiated. The full delivery of part of the state is politically problematic. The responsibility is in the political institution, but the authority is in the congregations. The AKP, which has been in power alone for 14 years, must be expected to maintain political stability. In a country with political stability, there is no coup attempt, no July 15th. The protected state, no matter who it is, can never be shared with others. The basic political problems are obviously unresolved. We're at the point of losing our unity, our elbows. In and out, the division of Turkey is discussed; the legal and physical conditions and shape of division are discussed. The highest authorities in the state are presenting beka problems. Is that what stability is? The AKP, politically, promises nothing to this nation. For him, we call it a political crisis. Did you solve the issue of terrorism, and we stopped it, consolidated our unity and unity, and we split it into 36 ethnic groups? Dear MPs, this is our political life. The economy is no different. After the 2001 crisis, we have come to this day thanks to the economic programme, which has been put at great political risk. Production, the basis of the economic programme of the coalition government, has been neglected for many years. An understanding that sees economics as interest, currency, stock market and coupon land has recently started talking about the production economy. The insufficient savings rate has been directed rather than towards production investments, to real estate investments for Ranta. We can't deny the fact that the construction industry is a locomotive, but the capital buildup of limited savings must be directed as a source for the economy that produces it. The third quarter growth data, published two days ago, has also been described as negative 1.8. Since the previous quarter growth is 4.5 percent, the direction of development is more than concern. As data for this period, the consumption spending of households has been reduced by 3.2 per cent, while the state's consumption spending has increased by 23.8 per cent. Mr. Finance Minister considers the increase in state spending as a positive contribution to the economy. The economy is not driven by its own balance, but by moving water. With this data, we'll be able to find the source of the problem if Mr. Secretary reveals the main strategic plan of development and the goals of the middle-term plan. It is a concern that expectations based on the budget bill that we are meeting have deviated from further legislation. The rise in dollars has caused us to see that the effort to explain the world's developments is nearly twice as negative compared to the same amount of money as the dollar/dollars. We need to accept that we can no longer remove the problem by transferring it to a location and take it seriously. Blaming global powers will solve what? The government, which has to anticipate and take precautions, does nothing but complain. The government did not complain; the global forces did this, but what did you do, and what were you doing while they were doing it? Our position in corruption rankings, injustice in income distribution, and irregularities in the legal system, eliminate stability. The result is headed towards the economic crisis. It's okay if our political criticism is just political criticism. However, the government's wrong policies and false predictions deserve more than just political criticism. The country's back on fire, the government's new news, new packages are being announced. On the one hand, we're compiling and withdrawing money from the market, and in less than three days, we're postponing social security premiums from the first three months of 2017 to nine months later. Dear lawmakers, the most valuable investment is an investment in human beings. You are all aware that the level of education in development assessments is an important indicator, and in this regard, the government has a bad record. The results of the International Student Evaluation Program have been expressed here. Former Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Affairs Ali Babacan, there is no country that has achieved economic success with a seven-year average education. Dear lawmakers, the government, which has to predict and take precautions, does nothing but complain. We believe that it is imperative that the government, which sees the economy as interest, currency and coupon land, abandons it and assesses the world's realities, the developments that revolve around us, and immediately demonstrates an economic measure that suits our domestic market. Precious lawmakers, in economic modeling by OECD using PISA data in 2010, are 3.5 trillion dollars in today's economic value, which Turkey will raise 25 points from 2010 to 2030, according to PISA results. This is an announcement to the government. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, we have had similar criticisms in many cases, but we have touched on some issues to discuss the matter in a limited amount of time. The basis of all problems is basically a fair, understandable, predictable legal system. If we want to set an example, Mr. Justice Minister said in a speech last week that the outcome would be catastrophic if the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors elected with the current system. How many judges and prosecutors have this election system? The legal system says it must be re-examined with a large turnout without getting any complexes, wishing the 2017 budget to be good luck, greeting the General Assembly with respect.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0003par0045	Thank you, Mr. Mit. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, it belongs to İzmir MP Tacettin Bayır. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Ridge.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0004par0049	I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the 9th article titled investment spending. I give my regards and greetings to our fellow citizens and our great Council who watch the televisions at their heads. Dear friends, as you may recall, I'd like to share with you the grounds that the Constitutional Court has cancelled earlier on grounds that I care. ▪ It is the right to determine and approve the type and amount of public spending with the right to a budget, tax and so on. This right belongs to the legislature of representatives elected by the people. The budget is the government's basic responsibility to Parliament. With the budget, parliament allows the government to collect revenues and expenses and oversees its proper use with a precise account law. It is a violation of the principle that the legal body's authority to collect and spend public revenues on the public's behalf shall be granted broad powers without limiting it to part concerned ministers or institutions, that the budgetary right of parliament shall be granted without budgetary provisions, whether the existing legislation shall be changed or embezzled indirectly, and that the budget law will not be subject to provisions that do not concern the budget. The Constitutional Court still insists on canceling its budgetary rights, which is contrary to the budgetary rights of the legislature of representatives elected by the people. We all know that the Constitutional Court is being asked to bypass the new constitution. The budget's share for public investment has not increased in the last five years, but has declined. For example, the 2011 budget is estimated to amount to 11.97 per cent in the central management budget, and the budget spending of the grant under the name "source transfer" is estimated to be down to 11.60 per cent in 2016, but there must be a mistake in investment preferences, which does not trigger real investments in the private sector. While public investment spending is increasing, the reduction of private sector investments suggests that public investment projects are either making big mistakes in preferences or being made with unrealistic high prices or major corruption. It's like, for example, you build a port somewhere, but the ship doesn't come, you build a bridge, but the car doesn't pass, you build a dwelling, but there's no buyer. Projects conducted in the transport sector guarantee use of demand. If the demand is lower than the projection, the difference is paid to investors by the state, as in Osman Gazi Bridge. These contracts provide guarantees of minimum income. In 4 transport projects, the amount of investment is 37.2 billion euros, and the guarantee of revenue is 22.5 billion euros. The Eurasia Tunnel, the Third Strait Bridge, and the Gebze-Izmir Highway, the guarantee of borrowing for Osman Gazi Bridge and the highway is 8.7 billion dollars; the Constitutional Court therefore called it off. Well, when we look at why it's happening, unfortunately, we see our country being run like a multi-boss company. There's the minister, there's the Prime Minister, there's the big boss; they're all playing on separate strings, so the system naturally collapses because, as members of the political party, whose group is in parliament, even though we try to float this ship as much as we want in the commissions, they don't take us into account. Look, recently, the President of this beautiful country said what if you all voted against him? Who did he say that to? Hold on, friends, to the European Union, where we have 45 percent of our total export. Who did he say it to? The European Union, which makes 73 per cent of foreign investments in our country, has a way of putting it in the mail, brushing it off, with a way of avoiding the seriousness of the state. Let's get rid of the rice stone. Who's gonna pick it out? Industrialist and businessman who contribute to the country's economy, who make it worth adding, of course, the manufacturer. I'm sorry to say, is this the way a country's manager would put a bomb in his own country's economy? Can he be so mean to his best client? How do we increase production? Who do we sell our production to? If we can't increase production, how can we find jobs for millions of unemployed people? In fact, our ministers, our bureaucrats who run the economy know this very well, but they have no solutions, they can't make a sound because whatever the big boss says, it's who decides who's the deputy, who's the minister, who's the president, who's the governor, and even what's the dollar. When he's 3,51, he comes out and talks, he says, "$3.54 under the pillow." But it's not enough, it's $3.54 today. Vote for us before the election. Those who say, "They deceive people, but then they come out, and they say, "We've been tricked." Sometimes Russia, sometimes to the European Union, sometimes to the United States, sometimes if they're not credible, sometimes by heating up the July 15 coup in front of us, they tie the collapse of the economy to that, as if they didn't break the ties with those countries themselves, as if they hadn't been able to arm themselves in the state. Let's leave these excuses, friends, people don't believe it anymore, stop making fun of people's minds, stop making fun of people's minds. By the way, who's been running this country for 14 years? Who made my beautiful country this way? Let's refresh our memory. I ask you: before the election, you said, where's the stability; where's the justice, where's the democracy; where's the freedom; where's the terror; you said, where's the peace and solution? I'm asking: "Where are our teachers, where are our teachers, where are the pensions, where are the free media, where are our journalists?" You said, "We're going to run out of poverty." You said, "Where's the wealth?" We became the land of begging people. I ask you: where is our reputation in foreign policy, where is our reputation; where is our development; where is the village, where is the farmer; you said, where is our labor, the minimum wage; what is the situation of the Turkish Armed Forces, you said, where is the future of our soldiers, and where is the future? You said, "Where is our police now; where is our breeding, our industry?" Where is the Prime Minister, anyway? Ministers, where's the execution? Where is the government, you said? There's only one thing you've said in 14 years that's true: all the people have approved: "Tulumba has run out of water." You said, "Where's the pump, where's the water, where's the pump, where's the pump?" Therefore, we will vote against this budget. I also have a brief statement to say to the person who asks where the pump's water is: if you look around a little bit, you'll find the water of the pump at the 17-25 corruption site, which you can find on December 17-25. [[Applause from CHP rows]] With these feelings and thoughts, we will vote against this budget as the Republican People's Party. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0005par0066	Thank you. Now, the third and final word for the group belongs to Adıyaman MP Behçet Yıldırım, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0006par0069	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 9th article of the central management budget in 2017. I salute the General Assembly. Before I begin my conversation, I'd like to share a message with you and our people who are watching us on the screen. Those who have responded to the demands of peace, democracy, and freedom of our oppressed peoples so far have once again made history repeat itself to us. To arrest the co-chairs of the Parliament's third-largest political party, the members of the group, the MPs, and the most fundamental principles of the law, no doubt, has already been carved into history as a black mark. Those who couldn't handle us with the very limited and inequality of fighting tools that we had, like the previous ones, chose to deal with the method of arrest, imprisonment, and isolation. They wanted to break the will of peace and freedom among us, to surrender our hope and faith in democratic, free tomorrows. Of course, I'd like to point out to these law freaks that we've developed a greater hope and faith in these atrocities, that we're continuing our honorable struggle with a more determined will. Every day, the atrocities of darkening all the stars continue in every aspect of social, political, social life, but remember that no matter how dark the darkness becomes, the stars eventually continue to burst into this darkness and shine throughout history. Moreover, the pitch darkness reported the bright dawns standing right next to him. In this sense, each one of us faces a historic task and responsibility, such as showing these truths to all our peoples and expanding our walking battle of honor. In carrying out this mission, it is vital to expose the honorary peace that concerns our entire society, through the one man or one party ruling account, through door-to-door, house-to-house sacrifice. In particular, millions who vote for the AKP must be tried to demonstrate the illusion of what they have been facing in terms of democratic solutions, peace, a liberal civil constitution. Those who promised society peace, prosperity and stability gave nothing but chaos, conflict and instability. No one voted for AKP to one day arrest co-chairs, MPs, mayors of a party that received 6 million votes and deepen the existing problems. This reality must be taken out of every place where it's gone, when it's fully conscious. More work, greater solidarity, I have complete faith that we will survive these dark days. This verse sums it all up, and the poet says: Where dreams run forever, Where patience blooms, It never closes the book. Because in the best part of history, The last word is for those who resist. I salute you, all of your friends, all of your people in solidarity, our patriotic and honorable people, with the best of love. Number 2. Lu F-type Kandira Prison, Kobeeli From here Idris Baluken greets all the prisoners, and I pay my respects. Mr. President, dear congressmen, three days ago, there was a very unfortunate incident here, a disproportionate force from the numerical majority. This does not suit the Parliament -- I say it in truth -- nor does it suit the national and domestic MPs. But I don't think it was much of a big deal, there was a little too much news that night, and I didn't go to the infirmary. Still, I want to thank all the friends in the dorm who called me directly through social media and abroad. But honestly, friends, I swear to God, even if you try to kill me, I'll keep telling the truth. I'm willing to give my life willingly, not to take a punch in the face of an honorable peace. The peace ambassador who spent many years in prison, the great Chanar Ahmet Turk, said, "If peace comes to Turkey, I am willing to be hanged in Zommon." We come from such a tradition. The main cause of tension that night was the attitude of Recep Akdağ, whose name was the Minister of Health, but who spoke like the minister of war. If we doctors can't get the diagnosis right, we'll make the treatment wrong and inadequate. In my speech on the Ministry of Health budget, I said that the people of Turkey were very nervous and polarized. I made very clear calls to the Minister of Health that day: "We have built this hospital here, we have spent this much money. Take concrete steps that are not satisfied by numbers, by statistics. The community wants peace, wants peace, wants to look at tomorrow safely. I told you. But Mr. Secretary spent more than half of his speech defaming and slandering the House's third-largest party. Yes, he may be nervous, but my hand in Beşiktas may be sleepless because of the attack, but that does not give him the right to attack us, which is the most violent of which my group and I, my friends in prison, and my co-chair, strongly condemned and condemned before anyone else. I couldn't hear a sentence from him except for the more provocative remarks of society. First of all, I have stated that society has become very nervous, polarized, unhappy, and restless because of the decrees of the State of Emergency and the Law that have occurred since July 10th and since July 15th. In the first place, I told the Ministry of Health to fix it. He needs to lower the blood pressure, he needs to come up with a solution, I said he needs initiative. So, before the numbers, before the budget, we have to question this mentality. Unfortunately, I don't think we're in a position to discuss the budget anymore, but I think we have priorities that go way beyond that. Therefore, we must first examine the results of our policies. Even in a crisis when you took over power, people weren't so concerned about their safety, freedom, freedom, and their presence. I'm sorry, there's a sense of insecurity throughout society today. No one has a vision of what tomorrow will be, no guarantees of tomorrow. Again, it is not only for opposition, peoples and beliefs that have been persecuted by power, but also for people who have voted for you personally. Even those who think they're out of this war, each individual, each individual of this community, now lives a life of uncertainty. We've been transformed into a concerned, unhealthy society that doesn't predict the future, but on the contrary, he's done nothing but accuse the MPs inside and in Congress of taking the public's gas. After the November 4 civil coup, our Co-Chairs, Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ, 10 of our fellow MPs were arrested, or taken hostage, in a more accurate way. Not yet, just two days ago, our Group Vice President Çağlar Demirel and our MP Besime Konca were arrested; yesterday, they took our Dersim MP Alican Önlü friend into custody and took him to Diyarbakır. Those who spoke about the removal of immunity, the work of the judge, come on, you have removed thousands of judges, and you have thrown thousands of judges into prison. Are you willing to rely on the judiciary today, even under these conditions, and remove all immunity except for the immunity of the bench? Even in these circumstances today, you don't have the courage because you don't trust the judgment, as if all this happened here, not in another country, as if the arrests were the work of the judiciary. Is there any judgment left, so it's a matter of judgment? You've stolen the will of the people, arrested the will of the people, but you're so desperate that you can't even tolerate the photographs in the House. Remove these photos. First, let those who call them oppose these unjust and unlawful arrests and form a few sentences. With public taxes, the public's budget, the TRT is almost showing the roof of the House so that no photos of the MPs in parliament can come out. The shame is enough for you. But I want you to know that you can take our deputies, our party, you can take our pictures off the screen, but you can't take our friends and party out of the public's hearts, and that's a problem for you. No matter what you do, we will not yield to you, neither will we bow to you; neither will this cause you only trouble, but also a lesson. The budget of 2017 is for all Turkey, for the good of our people, for the cause of peace, and for the sake of the General Assembly, I salute you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0007par0092	Thank you. Now, the first word on their behalf belongs to Smyrna MP Hüseyin Kocabik. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Big Brother, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0008par0096	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on Article 9 of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill. I hereby salute your high council. Mr. President, our budget for 2017 is a budget that increases the well-being of our citizens, provides for the services they need, not for interest, but for public services, and is based on investments and growth. In 2002, 43 per cent of our budget costs went into interest spending, and in 2017, we predict that it would be 8.9%. A low interest spending from 43.2% to 10 percent is a clear indicator of the discipline we bring to budget and interest. In 2002, only $11 of every $100 tax will go to interest, while in 2017, only $11 of every $100 tax will go to interest. The rest will be spent on education, health, agriculture, transportation investments and social benefits, for short, on the needs and welfare of our people. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have successfully completed the Action Plans for the Anti-Regional Strategy, which includes 2008-2010 and 2011-2013. We are now implementing the Anti-Regional Strategy Action Plan, which covers the 2015-2017 period. According to calculations, the percentage of the informal economy in 2002 was 32.4 per cent, while in 2015 it dropped to 27 per cent. Unregistered employment rate dropped from 52.1 per cent in 2002 to 33 per cent at the end of 2015. If the level of the off-the-book economy had been reduced by about 5.5 points, Turkey's rate in the informal economy would be at the level of developed countries. Our government has disciplined interest expenditures and the amount lost in the informal economy into investments. As with each budget period, our policy to increase and fund investments will continue in 2017. In 2016, our budget fund was at $60 billion, and in 2017, we increase our investment resources by 30 per cent to 78 billion dollars. So far, we've transferred a total of $10 billion to the SOC project, which we aim to strengthen the infrastructure of the villages. In 2017, we increase the source we reserve for the CYDES by 100 per cent to $1 billion. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we continue to strongly support our farmer. In 2017, we raised the source of agriculture from our budget to $31 billion. On the other hand, we're going to remove the VAT in the bait and fertilizer, and in addition to that, we're going to transfer $2.7 billion to our farmer. By increasing our divided road network to more than four floors during our reigns, we increased from 6,101 kilometers to about 25,000 kilometers. In this way, our six provinces are interconnected in divided ways, while today, 76 counties are interconnected. So far we've invested $11 billion in divided roads alone. A total of 1,213km Ankara-Eskişehir-Istanbul, Ankara-Konya, We have offered the opportunity to use high-speed trains for transport to some 30 million citizens on the Konya-Eskişehir-Istanbul lines. By 2019, we plan to pass faster trains and high-speed railway lines than 11 of our provinces, including Adana, Afyonkarahisar, Bursa, İzmir, Karaman, Kırıkkale, Manisa, Mersin, Sivas, bane and Yozgat. Our roller coaster investments have been 20 billion dollars since 2003... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Congressmans, I wish you all the best in our nation and country in 2017, which is the 15th budget of the EC PARTY.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0009par0106	Thank you, Mr. Big Brother. The second word on behalf of his subjects belongs to Samsun MP Kemal Zeybek. Here you are, Mr. Zeybek.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0010par0110	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you with respect and love. Of course, today, we're doing an estimated budget for the 2017 budget. Our country's budget, our government's investments, labour, civil servant, pensioner, industrialist, tradesman, farmer's life rights must be made to improve in 2017, for the life index to be good. In the budget, revenue costs estimates should be accurate; they should be audited, transparent. The government's budget can be audited by the state; you must not use the state's income and expenses as your farm. The budget deficit of 2016 was 29.7 billion dollars. The budget for 2017 was raised with 47 billion budget deficits. Is this the way to increase the percentage of people who are working with this budget deficit and who are expecting to live in the future with their life index? The budget deficit in 2017 has increased budget difference by 13 per cent, according to last year's budget. With this year's budget deficit, will the government support the increase of 13 per cent of our workers, our officers, and our small-income people? You didn't explain the purchase prices in the nuts. Nut producers in Turkey have abandoned their nut purchases to the monopoly capital, and you must have thrown them into their laps. The pro-AKP trolls are protected. The State Competition Council is not stepping in. The base prices that protect our farmer must be explained. All our products, such as grain, barley, wheat, rice, tic, sunflowers, tomatoes, potatoes, onions, vegetables, grapes, figs, pomegranates, apples, are sold for nothing, or left in the field, in the garden. Our farmer is left to his fate with natural disasters, underwear, or hail. In national education, AKP's powers will be raised by religious, vindictive youth. You stand by for harassment and abuse. You create enemies for our country in Syria, Egypt, Iraq, Libyan sectarians, racists, grudges. What have you done to our country that talks about strategic depth in foreign policy? AKP and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan have not been trusted or respected in the world. You stuck the country in the Middle East swamp.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0011par0117	You're dreaming, you're dreaming.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0010par0118	As BOP Co-Chair, you tried to design the Middle East with imperial powers. Unfortunately, dark forces have begun to design our country as a result of your poor rule. You are aiding and abetting religious organizations in Syria, Iraq. In areas controlled by the ISIS terrorist organization, the bearded ISIS militants shaved their beards... and you were with the free Syrian Army-looking ISIS. Our people are not comfortable in our country as the Syrians roam all over our country. The lack of control of public administrations, expenditures, and investments by the Court is unclean, and those who do not get audited are unclean. You have to answer for the public's money by taking control of this country's revenue costs. Peace, freedom, it has to be for our future country. In the Middle East, while we wait for peace in our country, hope for the future... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We wish for the movement of governments. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0012par0126	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0013par0127	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0012par0128	I'd like to point out here that we've denied all of your claims. There have been baseless and baseless allegations, and we don't accept any of them. The Justice and Development Party has never been a racist party, never had such a philosophy. It's a party that embraces the whole community, gets all the votes from the community. A racist party can't vote like this. We don't deal with imperial powers, we've always been on the side of the oppressed and the Middle East people. Look, right now in Syria, the state of the Republic of Turkey is fighting against DAEŞ, PYD, terrorist organizations, as long as it guarantees our borders. Once again, we firmly deny these allegations.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0014par0131	Thank you, Mr. Mush. Congressmans, this concludes the conversation. We're going to question-answer. We're going to do a question-and-answer procedure in ten minutes. We'll use half the time as a question and half as an answer. Yes, I promise the MPs who enter the system in order for five minutes. Mr. Oz, here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0015par0136	Mr. Secretary, Eceabat Kilye has been derailed from his position and is arriving at the Bigalı village five miles later. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk 19. After he was assigned to Division Command, 19th. He puts the division around the village of Biga. 19. During the time of the division's stay in the village of Bigalı, this house was later transformed into a Museum of Ataturk, where the Gelipoli Peninsula was founded in 1973, with the foundation of the historical national park. The museum that was closed after the 2014 Canakkale earthquake is still closed. When will the restoration work be completed? In addition, the Çamlıtekke Headquarters, founded 700 meters north of the Great village of Anafarta, is in ruins today during Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's reign in the Battle of the Anafartas. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is it also considered that the headquarters of Pinelekke should be rebuilt as soon as possible?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0016par0140	Thank you. Dear Man...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0017par0142	No.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0016par0143	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0018par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, your national income is 7,000-7 due to the increase in dollars. In Turkey, all economists had this interpretation, but we did a 20-percent revision. You said, you raised the national income for $11,000. Now, I'm asking you, if you'd done a 30-percent revision, would the national income be up to 12,000 dollars? What did you do this revision based on? Isn't there something wrong with these accounts? Do the Turkish people believe that? Is it really $11,000 per person in Turkey right now? And especially cell phones, electronics, illegal cigarettes, how do you fight them? Send a team to Silifke Street in Mersin to see how many illegal phones are being sold. Honest people can't handle smugglers. As the Treasury Department, run the law where the government is and fight the smugglers, otherwise there's unfair competition and honest people have to close their businesses. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm hoping you'll be able to put up a good fight about it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0019par0150	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0020par0151	Thank you, Mr. President. I asked the Minister of Health the other day, but I didn't get a straight answer because the Minister of Health was always busy attacking, so I'll ask Mr. Finance. I made it clear that the health workers' pensions are very low, very funny. Even doctors who have worked in the state for thirty-forty years have to do a second job in order to survive, if they can find a second job, or if their health helps. Do you have a study for health workers' pensions? There was also talk of the wearout portion, there was a study about it. Our colleagues would like an explanation. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0021par0154	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0022par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'm curious to know how much budget you've been spending on the 2017 budget as public investments to Bursa. As you know, Turkey is among the first three districts in terms of taxes that it pays, but its denominator is at the latest. Will you have an arrangement in 2017 for the resolving of the contradiction here? In addition, do you have any idea of the four mountain districts known as the southeast of Burma, Orhaneli, Keles, Büyükorhan, Harmancık districts, in order to increase public investment and allocate more than the budget? If so, we'd like to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0023par0159	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0024par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to make a statement in response to Mr. Minister's answer to my question about teacher salaries last night: Mr. Secretary, salary increases on poverty limits and inflation increases, important trade groups, and especially the increase of our teachers' salaries, living standards, of course, are all of our most important wishes and priorities. It is our most natural responsibility to criticize your government's policy practices, to express shortcomings, to raise the demands of our citizens in budget talks. Our teachers' salary increases during your administrations are not enough. I just wanted to say again that there is no increase in prosperity in our country's economic and social conditions. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0025par0163	Yes, thank you. Mr. Secretary, it's your turn to answer the questions.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0026par0165	Mr. President, there's still 20 seconds left.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0027par0166	I mean, it's more sustainable, actually.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0025par0167	If there's time, I'll be back in five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0028par0169	Mr. President, Mr. Oz, they asked me a question about the museum in Eceabat, and if they agree, I will share this information with them after I get the information from the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, and I don't have any available information at the moment. Mr. Simsek, the study of national income revision is an update by Turkey's Statistical Agency according to Eurostat standards reported by the Turkish Statistical Agency, based on ESA 2008 standards. While Turkey's Statistical Agency is making this update, other Eurostat member states have made an update on whatever standards they have used, and as a result of this update, they have made a revision on national income. The ratio of revisions to be done should be as high as this, if it's this big, we'll believe it, if it's this big, we won't believe it. There can't be an approach. When national revenue revisions are done in other countries outside of Turkey, the upward-directional increase has always been seen. Turkey has made a great effort in recent years, especially at the point of increasing its statistical capacity. Information collected from all sides has been reflected in this work, especially in the creation of national income accounts, a closer working environment with the institutions involved. Also, according to my information, Turkey's Statistical Agency has shared the basis of its revision, methodology and explanations. Of course, everyone has the right to ask about the assumptions of the revision, the consistency of the revision, to find out if it's true.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0029par0172	Is that the standard this year, Mr. Secretary? Weren't those standards last year?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0028par0173	I find your approach correct in this sense, but I mean, the national income accounts were like this, and we don't like it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0029par0174	No, is that a new coin? Didn't those standards come out last year or just come out? Depends on what?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0028par0175	Dear friends, why are you getting excited? According to international standards, a European Statistical Agency in Turkey has conducted an application by all countries, and this has published its revision study, its assumptions, its bastions.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0029par0176	Do you believe that, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0030par0177	Mr. Lightning, you asked your question, Mr. Secretary is answering. Appreciation is public opinion. Please, let's not have a double conversation.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0028par0178	I agree with the questions being asked here, that's true, but I'm trying to tell you that it's not right to try to put these, these statements, or the revision of the Statistical Agency, into a line of questioning, as if there was something else behind it. Let's ask him everything, and I'll ask him if there's enough data behind an explanation, methodology is correct, his assumptions are correct? The professionals of this work also make statements, and Turkey's Statistics Agency makes its own statements, but if Turkey's Statistical Foundation is going to do a revision, it should be low-profile. I see the approach as a very political approach.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0029par0179	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0031par0180	He didn't say that, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0028par0181	In a purely professional sense, it is also useful to say that TÜİK is doing so using statistical rules, principles, and there is no need to take him to anything else.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0032par0182	That's realism, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0028par0183	We spend a lot of time working together with agencies involved in cigarette smuggling, phone smuggling, these matters, but I've told friends now about Mersin, so this is something that we all need to be sensitive about. As the Ministry, I hope we'll continue with these studies. And I've instructed my friends at the Ministry to do their work on the location you're telling them to do, and they'll do it quickly. In other counties, we encounter these from time to time. Both our police departments and other agencies involved in the fight against trafficking are working together with us. I thank you, too, for your sensitivity. Mr. Yıldırım has made an assessment of the pensions of our healthcare workers. First of all, in 2002, of course, an existing system of pensions for all public employees has taken over the AK PARTI governments, and ever since then, the increase in pensions in pensions has always been above inflation. The pensioners' acquisitions and prosperity increased during this period, but we know they have a demand for healthcare workers. Our Ministry of Health also has various studies on this issue. It's one of the things that we're trying to do, on the one hand, by maintaining the balance of Social Security and the perspective of justice with other social groups, to see if we can do something about it. But what can be done on the condition that we comply with the general rules of social security at the Social Security Agency, our Ministry is working on it, and we're providing technical support for those studies with the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, and when they get to a point, they're going to be shared with the public. Mr. Aydın, I don't have the number of investments made about Bursa, but let's make sure that we share them with you. In 2017...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit01spe0033par0187	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0033par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 41st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill. The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0034par0004	Mr. President, may I have a word, sir?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0033par0005	I promise I'll take a moment of your time, Mr. Sky. I have a brief statement to make. Congressmans, I'm afraid people have been slaughtered in Aleppo lately, innocent people are dying. With people, there's actually a serious drama going on there, and humanity is being slaughtered, a civilization, a city, unfortunately, is facing extinction. In the long-standing human drama, in recent days, planes have been dropped on the civilian and innocent Aleppo people by dropping bombs on women, children, old men. At present, over 100,000 people are facing the greatest tragedy in history in four neighborhoods within a two-mile radius. Although Turkey, Mr. President, our Prime Minister, has been declared a ceasefire for the evacuation of civilians due to intense contacts by our government, unfortunately, we are also receiving very bad news. The attitude of the modern Western world, which talks about human rights, is devastating to mankind again. Dear MPs, their interest in the capetta turtles, their compassion, their attitude, unfortunately, when it comes to Aleppo, when it comes to Arakan, they can't exhibit when it comes to Lahore, when it comes to Istanbul. In Paris, when there was an attack in Brussels, the whole world was united against that attack, and they couldn't say, "Je suis Paris.",, Je suis Brussels., all of them together in the world for the common fight against terror, but unfortunately, when the Western world is Muslim, when the oppressed, the victims are a certain people of the region, they can't say, "Ee suis İstanbul.," they can't say, "Je suis Alep." So, dear lawmakers, this drama here, the one thing that we must all draw attention to as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as all parliamentarians, is that at least once a safe release of civilians, we get news that they've been fired on, and our hearts are burning. Who's gonna pay for the baby Aylan? The West, which builds walls of shame for the people who come from there, and the silence of those innocents who die, and the play of the blind and the deaf against the dead. So I think we should all contribute with our support, at least with our prayers, to this heart fire. I long for this pain, the tears of Aleppo, to cease, and once again I condemn the terror of the land with violence and hatred. I'm just saying once again, the safe release of innocent people should be made, at least, an effort to do so. I'd like to pay my respects to all of you, thank you. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] Mr. Sky, yes, you were in the system. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0035par0020	Mr. President, thank you. Unfortunately, in all the battles and wars around the world, the victims always happen to civilian citizens. It's a very angled reality that's been happening all over the world. Therefore, no matter where the whole world is, and what is now on the agenda of Aleppo, innocent people, civil citizens, children, women, young people must not allow themselves to be created in a conflict environment where they have lost their lives without need. It's a painful scream, an important, very important human drama. Therefore, I think that any threat to such civilians and vital practices should be terminated immediately, and that civilians should be brought back to human conditions and released from the war environment as well as worthy of what they deserve is something that I think the whole world should be on right now. And we hear these cries of pain, and with all the power of the world, we wish it would end these sufferings. Mr. President, if I may have one more sentence. Mr. President, you just took a break. It seems our AKP MP friends are carrying the fatigue of the days-long budget marathon, but the more careful the AKP Group is here to defend the budget... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0036par0026	Complete, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0035par0027	So in an environment where a budget right is discussed, where budget talks are being held, criticisms are being held, the AKP Group following talks without having a numerical majority here, I don't think it's appropriate for budget rights and all criticisms and talks. Let me get this straight. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0036par0030	Thank you. Mr. Akçay, I'll give you two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0037par0034	Thank you, Mr. President. A ceasefire had been declared in Aleppo, Syria, the night before, but we had learned that the truce had been broken and that there had been a ceasefire in the morning, but we have been told that a section of the militia, led by Iran, had opened fire on the convoy where civilians were waiting to be evacuated from the siege zone, and were killed and injured. We strongly condemn the wounded who were evacuated from the convoy carrying innocent children, women and elderly. Also, from such civil unrest and civil wars, unfortunately, we see that the innocent and the oppressed are victims again. Also, these events that have occurred in front of our eyes are, unfortunately, very painful examples of how much we need unity and unity as a country, the strength of the Republic of Turkey, and how much the armies and stateless societies have been crushed underfoot. In that regard, I would like to point out that while we are all in Turkey following these events carefully, Turkey is also on an alert. With those thoughts, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0038par0038	Thank you. Mr. Kerestecioglu, I give you my word. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0039par0042	Thank you, Mr. President. The most important thing is that everyone should do their best to get civilians, children, women, especially from areas of conflict, wherever they are, to get people out, to open up a corridor safely, and to show this sensitivity, regardless of where it is in Syria, or anywhere in the world, should be shown by whomever it is done, so it should be shown when it's done in Syria, as it is in May. Everyone has to be sincere about this, but first of all, I think, what everyone, especially politicians, should be sincere about is that before the war comes, we shouldn't take it out, so we have to fight about it and avoid it. In this regard, we ask the civilian community to be especially patient, and we demand that all human support be made, and that human rights violations be identified and condemned by international organisations. In the meantime, I'd like to point out one more thing. In Turkey, where you are currently on the road to zero tolerance, torture claims have also been seriously expressed. I'm also here to see that there's been an undiscriminate sensitivity, that Turkey isn't re-remembered as a tortured state and that... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0040par0047	Complete, please, please.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0039par0048	I would like to say that Turkey is not to be seen again as a tortured state, that none of us deserves it, that torture is truly a crime of humanity, that we should all place it in our hearts, not just in our words. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0040par0050	Thank you. Mr. Mush, I'll give you two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0041par0054	Mr. President, for a long time, the city has been under attack in Aleppo with no distinction from civilians, children, hospitals, educational institutions, and as of today, the area where civilians are staying has been completely narrowed down and an effort is being made to evacuate civilians living here by setting a truce. However, the evacuations that began again this morning with a ceasefire yesterday were attacked by various organisations, militias, terrorist organizations, whoever they were. We're looking at the big world, big institutions. United Nations declarations stop, the European Union gives human rights lessons, but when a step is taken against the violation of human rights here, we regret to see no serious attempt has been made. Aleppo, a genocide is being committed, and unfortunately, the world is blind and blinded. Is it because the inhabitants of Aleppo are Muslims? Why doesn't it make a strong noise and the civilians there can't be evacuated? At first, our President, our Prime Minister, and our government have made a great effort to secure both the truce and the evacuations there. The 80 million-dollar Republic of Turkey, our entire nation, is campaigning at the point of sending help from there and there, with a great deal of effort and initiative to heal the wounds of the innocent and the civilians there.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0040par0057	Finish it, Mr. Mush. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0041par0059	Hopefully, there'll be a way for civilians to be evacuated again. Our government's attempts are continuing, and immediately... there are both the elderly and the children and the civilians and the injured. Because hospitals are bombed, there's no medical intervention, there's a shortage of drugs, there's food problems, there's food shortages. As soon as those people are evacuated, I'd like to point out that we, as Turkey, as a nation, will make every effort to heal their wounds. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0042par0062	Thank you. Yes, lawmakers, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we say no Aleppo, no Aleppo, no Srebrenica, and we invite women's rights advocates, child rights advocates, all human rights advocates and international institutions and organisations once again. As our entire House and all MPs, we have been closely monitoring the process of Aleppo. He says that Turkey's strength, the hope of all the oppressed and the victims, will give peace and trust to the region and to all mankind, and I thank you all again for your common approach, and I give you all my regards. Congressmans, there are two motions on Article 9 of the same nature, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the 2017 Central Management Budget Charter (1) be removed from the text of the article "Except for transport, naval transport systems and subway construction projects and other railway construction and attracting vehicle projects," which will be carried out by the Ministry of Maritime and Telecommunications. Zechariah Haziel Kazim lion Musa pine Ali Yiğit Çetin Arik The Ancient Won't Stop The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Kalaycı İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Usta Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0043par0083	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0042par0084	Government?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0044par0085	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0042par0086	Members of parliament, the amendments of Article 162, which regulates the Constitution's budget talks, are read and voted on without discussion. I am reading the grounds of the motions. The article 6/1/2002 of the Law on Public Financial Management and Control Act 6761, adopted on 16/11/2016, added to the statement "payment for the First Year" (a) of the first article of Public Relations Act No. 4734, dated 4/1/2002. "In addition to projects included in the 2017 Investment Programme, there is no spending on any project, except for projects involved in the project, which are included in these frameworks, and there is no more than 10 per cent of the cost of investing in the project, and there is no less than 10 per cent of the cost of the project or investment of the project in 2017, so that the project will begin in 2017, so that the project will not have to be paid for the project, and there will be no less than 10 per cent of the cost of the project, which will be covered by the Maritime and Communications Ministry of Maritime and subway transport systems, and other projects that will not be included in the following year, and there will be no less than 10 per cent of investments. In the article (1) of Article 9 of the 2017 Central Management Budget Bill (1) of the 2015 Centre Budget Act, the statement refers to the above arrangement, except for "Translation, Maritime and Telecommunications Ministry's internal rail transport systems and subway construction projects, and other railway construction and attracting vehicle projects," and also to the Constitutional Court, which finds the regulation contrary to the 87/1615th Articles of the Constitutional Court of the 2015 Centre's Budget Law to be cancelled by Article 9/16/16. 2015/7, K. It is also not appropriate for the identification and explanations specified in Decision 2016/47. The budgetary budget for projects listed in parentheses has been earmarked for the 2017 Central Management Act, and its addition to the 2017 Investment Programme, which will be drafted by the Ministry of Development following the adoption of the budget law, is a necessary and mandatory result of Article 19 of Law Number 641. From now on, there will be a way to start investments without funds or without sufficient funds, to revisit election investments, and to squander public resources that are already limited. The fourth amendment to Article 161 of the Constitution states that the budget law will not be subject to any provisions other than budgetary provisions, while the basis for amendments to the budget on Article 163 is also arranged, and the Council of Ministers has not even been authorized to make changes in the budget. Under constitutional rules that separate budget laws from other laws, there is no way that a matter that should be regulated by the law should be regulated by budget law or by any law that is in force to be passed by budget laws, whether it should be removed, not implemented, or in violation of regulations. The resolution is made because it violates the Constitution's 87, 88, 89, 161. I'm reading the reason for the other motion of the same nature: A non-funded investment was intended to not start, and the non-budget provisions, as stated in the Constitutional Court's decision, should not be included in the draft. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. MADDE 10- (1) of the Finance Ministry budget; a) 12.01.31. 00-06. 1. 0. 07-1-05. The grant, which is part of the 2 subsidies, is dated 13/1/2005, and has been handed over to the county's private administrations in accordance with Law 5286, to pay for their monthly and all other financial and social rights. B) 12.01.31. 00-06. 1. 0. 08-1-07. As part of the 1-site grant, the Support of the Villages' Infrastructure Project (KODES), the special administrations and/or villages' services for the infrastructure needs of the villages, c) 12.01.31. 00-06. 1. 0. 09-1-07. As part of the 1-site grant, the Water Sewer and Infrastructure Project (SUKAP), the County Bank of Anonym Corporation is responsible for carrying out municipal drinking and waste projects. It's used to be justified. In the event of need under SDUAP, funds can be transferred to the relevant public administration budget or to the private budgetary management budget under the general budget. As part of this joke, the assistance of the Treasury to relevant governments is impregnable and cannot be guarded. (2) The procedure and basis for payments according to the first joke (a) are determined together by the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Finance. (3) The funds included in the first joke (b) and (c) beneficiaries will be determined by the High Planning Board for the 2017 Investment Programme, and for the SDUAP, the distribution, use, monitoring, and control of municipalities. On the 10th article, the first statement on the behalf of the group of the National Movement Party belongs to Bursa MP Kadir Koçdemir. Here you go, Mr. Coachdemir. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0045par0113	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute your grand delegation. Ali Akbaş, the great poet of Turkish, wrote from the mouth of a mother who had been raped in Bosnia, again composed in a very beautiful form by Bayram Bilge Tokel. / Our eyes are on the road, O people! People, a quarter of a century after the massacre of the poem, which continues, "O people!," a very serious massacre is taking place today in Aleppo. Here, of course, our hearts are burning. With our prayers, we try to stop this massacre with whatever we can, but in doing so, of course, we need to see the truth. There is a beautiful saying that the first victim of war is truth, the first thing that war kills is the truth. If we look at maps from any website that show which groups are in Syria, every other day, east of Aleppo, we can see how many days and months pass from the direction of Hatay. Unfortunately, in Aleppo, we're going to meet up with our next-door neighbor at 27, which is not even a proper reporter, and we're going to have to remember, once again, that it's by our neighbor and his militia there. It has been a month-and-a-half since international organisations, which we don't like, which we accuse of a double standard, reported that more than 30,000 women have been raped. What's wrong with us? What's wrong with us? Sir, we need to put it in front of us in a way that's responsible for what we've done and what we haven't done. That's the way God created it, there's a part of man's extremism that keeps confirming himself. You know how they say they put everyone's mind on the market, they didn't write anything on it, then they let people go to the market, and everyone has their own mind. It's a human thing, it's the right thing to defend ourselves, but friends, there are other human beings. One of them is shame and one of them is mercy. If there are these two individuals, where a man falls, where he's thrown away, he can make a fresh start, but if his shame and compassion are gone, then it's hard for us to do our job if he dulls these two emotions in the name of confirmation. Again, I wish this matter would be a blessing for our own actions after this, in order for the state savings to show us what can lead to the fallout of diplomacy. Again, in recent days, the knife has reached the top of the bone. I wish that it would be possible for us to end the terrorist incidents as quickly as possible, to bear fruit in common with them, and to make us feel like a great, honorable, honorable family, not to be separated, to be camped with each other, to be able to embrace each other, to appreciate each other. And once again, I would like to remind you that our savings over hundreds and thousands of years of living together there should not be deactivated. Before that, I said, "The eye sees what it knows." Our government has come from the municipal staff. Even if the other staff members were subject to one person, even if they did the $10 job in areas in the municipalities for $12, something was done -- the airport, the divided road, the welfare, the subgate, the overpass. But in areas that are not in the municipality, I am a Turkish nationalist, and the ultimate goal of the Turkish nationalist is to bring this community to the highest position in the nation's family, in respect of prestige. Our goal is to stay in a room with two people in a country you don't know about. There are other nations down there, these people of the nations, who do you want to stay with? That's why these statistics hurt more than anyone who's heard of us, but there's a fact that we've been going back eight rows, ten rows in every field for six, seven years. I understood that, you know, coming from the city, you know, doing what you know, seeing what you know, but unfortunately, Turkey isn't getting any better in the area of local administration, either, guys. I was on active duty at the time, as a bureaucrat, as head of the special administration, which is a local administration unit. As this whole city comes around, there's no demand for a whole city to come to me in an argument about this -- I'm a person following the hasbelkader literature -- there's no demand for a whole city to come to me -- someone to show me that before 2013, there's got to be a city like this. In 2010, in 2011 -- an article, an argument and so on -- one person says this in the morning, and even the town halls have to be here, but I think there's been a meeting, and then everyone changes their opinion. This is against the acquish of domestic, civil, joint needs being met, my friends. We call it the Subsidiarite principle, we call it locality in medicine; this government speaks very loudly of it, what is it? A service must be served as a principle by the nearest administrative unit to the citizen. If that administrative unit can't do it at all or can't do it effectively, then the next unit must. Today, the corporate personality of our villages has been eliminated. The corporate personality -- look, the law calls it personal -- is a personality. For three hundred, five hundred years, some of them have been living together for six, seven hundred years, like my village, and we've eliminated villages that are the cradles of democracy, where all voters are decision-making bodies in the community. We've stopped people from developing their capacity and ability to make decisions there, to make agendas, to solve their own problem. Our district mayors are currently under civil decree, and the mayors of the district have no active, competent duties except to collect garbage. Our citizen's confused, too. Whatever he complains about, whoever he reaches out to, he shows the other. If he can reach the capital city -- which is difficult -- sir, we gave to our mayor there, he will do it. When he reaches the mayor of the district, sir, the cemetery business, the sewer work, the water business is in the capital. Our people can't find a place to talk about it. As such matters are being organised, we look again at breakfast, where there is no discussion at this time, and the number of all these cities has been raised to 60. Let's at least put this on the table this time, and let's take advantage of the experience of what measures have been taken on the world's control, the efficient use of resources, and how they have consequences. A wise man is a person who incorporates the experiences of others without experiencing them in person; a wise state is such a state, a state that acts that way. Let us not forget that when our country exercises everyone's own delusions and enthusiasm and then returns, I was deceived, I was wrong. It is not a country that has the capacity to say, its resources. In that regard, I, the Constitutional Court, have expressed the same attitude in this budget that the decisions are not considered, and I respect all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0046par0125	Thank you, Mr. Coachdemir. The second statement belongs to İzmir MP Kamil Okyay Sündir. Mr. Lander, here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0047par0129	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 10 of the 2017 Central Management Budget Act. I salute our General Assembly and our great nation. Dear MPs, I'd like to begin by referring to the traitorous terrorist attack that took place in Beşiktas, Istanbul, on December 10th, which enshrined our entire nation with a deep law. In Istanbul, the treacherous attack on Beşiktas, and 44 of our lost lives, 44 of our martyrs, 44 of our fires in the furnaces, I hereby ask for the mercy of God to our policemen and to our civil citizens, to their families, to their loved ones, and to all our nations, and to our wounded. Once again, we condemn the perpetrators, the enforcers, and the forces behind this apparent crime against humanity on World Human Rights Day. As in all the world, the establishment of public order, the establishment of peace and security, the fight against terrorism, naturally, is the primary duty of the rulers of that country. Again, the Republican People's Party is ready to give the government all kinds of support in the fight against terrorism. Dear lawmakers, what is expected of a government official who claims to be determined and determined to save this country from terror after these painful attacks that we have left so many of them behind, under normal circumstances -- normal political ethics and responsibilities? I guess what hasn't worked so far is that they admit their bankrupt policies and offer rational, scientific, consistent, participatory, democratic solutions for the rest of our country, right? So, what did the ruling owners do? A minister came out, and in a speech to our police, he advised me to be a martyr, and I hope to be a martyr. A similar speech was made by another minister in August 2015, and he said, "My goal is to be a martyr if God grants it to me." Dear ministers, we know you're prepared to be a martyr for your country. However, try not to be a martyr but to end the terrorist activities that we commit every day, to serve our country and our nation. If you want to serve God, try to serve the people first. These people have not assigned you to be martyrs, but to serve him. I ask the rulers, who are in despair, irresolvency, and who think that they are being protected only by the name of our Almighty God: What about you, our officer, our laborer, our tradesman, our farmer, our peasant, our pensioner, our laborer, all of our citizens? Can you protect the rights of our police, our soldiers? For example, I'd like to ask you: Do you think that on December 10th, when Besiktaş was serving at the Stadium and not only there, but every day, every day, every weekend, every weekend, every social event, every day, every day, every day, every day, no holiday, every day, every mission given on Saturday without hesitation, and perhaps even at night, I might not be able to go home? Will you give me your rights? Will you give me 3,600 additional indicators? Will you pay for his duties outside his normal working hours? Are you going to humanize the working system conditions? Dear lawmakers, before I enter into my views on the matter, I'd like to express a request. In his speech at Erzincan, Erzincan, Prime Minister Bünli Yıldırım paid, he used the same expression in his own words: (In the past 15 years, our support for agriculture and animalism is $90 billion, you haven't heard wrong, 90 quadrillion, let him be happy.) He has basically admitted to the lack of the rights of our farmers. Because we all know the 21st article of the Agricultural Law, which has been expressed many times from this bench: the financing of agricultural support programmes is provided from budget resources and external sources. The budget's funding cannot be less than 1 per cent of the non-employee national estate. It is clear that a total of at least 156 billion euros in support of the law during the 15-year AKP ruling period -- until this June 2016 -- Mr. Baki Yıldırım insisted that 90 billion dollars had been paid off. Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like to ask you to pay our farmer the $66 billion debt you've already paid, which our farmer has a legal and lawful right, and I'm sure they won't ask for interest. Dear lawmakers, the 10th article of the 2017 Central Management Budget Act (SUKAP) of 2017 includes provisions on the procedures and shapes of the grants as part of the 10th Amendment project. As it is known by 2005, after the dissolving of the General Directorate of Village Services, which carried out all our villages, water, rural infrastructure and so on, during this period of power, our villages have been put into a long-term lack of service after the district's special administrations of all their assets and qualified staff, the mayor of the capital city in Istanbul and Kopeli. We said yesterday that regulations with the 6360 Metropolitan Law, which was published in 2012, would produce impossible consequences for our lands and especially our meras, and we continue to say so today. As you know, the number of villages, 34,434 by law, has fallen to 18,214. The number of cities, which were 1,977, was reduced to 394. 16,220 villages and 1,583 districts were suddenly built into cities and the village lost its status. So the corporate personality of villages and towns was removed. In 2012, the urban population rate of 77.3 per cent was suddenly raised to 91.3 per cent in 2013, so the village population of more than 17 million people dropped to 6 million in a pen. Well, of course, with no more villages on paper in the country, the burden of the CYODES project has been reduced. It's a joke, isn't it? In villages that have been transformed into neighborhoods with Law 6360, all assets of the village's corporate personality have been transferred to municipalities, leading to the development of farmlands, meadows, and pedestrians. Thus, the ground has been set up for the farmer, who has already failed to profit from agricultural production, to sell his land and to withdraw from production. An important part of the city's municipalities, including agricultural watering services, are also observed to be reluctant, even indifferent to the budgets of these services, which are not thought to be ineffective in the context of financial and human resources and are in charge of the central administration. Despite the transfer of the responsibilities of province's private administrations closed by Law 6360 to major cities, it is no longer possible for our villages to return to the neighborhood to the CSEADAS Project for Supporting the Villages' Infrastructure Project and SDUAP, Water Canalization and Infrastructure Project to benefit from the 16,223 villages, which were originally given neighborhood status. On the other hand, the procedures and principles related to monitoring and control are decided by the Higher Planning Board, following the appointment of their dues in the 2017 Investment Programme, and for the SDUAP project in some cities; and for SDUAP, another concern is carried out by the Supreme Planning Board. I need to tell you that we have concerns about what special administrations, what criteria, what municipalities, and how fair they can be. Needless to say, there should be distribution by predetermined, objective, measurable, manageable criteria, independent of such funding distributions. Dear MPs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu, Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs from this bench yesterday, also briefed on the Ministry's work and brought up the issue of the GAP. I want to make it very clear that the 26 per cent of the project, which envisions the watering of 1.8 million hectares, is now complete... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...in the 15-year period of AKP power, only 15 per cent. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I end my words here, I wish the central management budget of 2017 to be good for our country, for our nation. I salute our great nation.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0048par0148	Thank you, Your Honor. On behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, it belongs to Mush MP Ahmet Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0049par0152	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to start by welcoming all of you with our esteemed citizens and fellow councilmen who watch over us on television. In both Turkey and the Middle East and other parts of the world, we are really going through the days when evil becomes ordinary, and the blood is flowing every day, unfortunately, with ordinary emotions. We're spending the last few days in a tragedy where over 100,000 people struggle to survive in Aleppo, struggle to starve, can't meet their basic needs. However, it should not be forgotten that in the last few days the practice of human crime that has increased in Aleppo is not today's problem. Aleppo hasn't had a tragedy in three or five days. Aleppo and most of the Syrian lands have been living this tragedy uninterrupted for over five years. Even if the partial agreements at certain times have dropped, even if crimes against humanity have been reduced, permanent stability has never been achieved there. Again, it will serve nothing except a temporary solution to different political circles in Turkey and the government's recent sensitivity to crimes against humanity in Aleppo, but it will only be reduced to Aleppo, and only reduce to a few days' practice in Aleppo. Whatever Turkey can do, it must be able to demonstrate its existence as a country, contributing to the conditions of being a peaceful country in Syria, especially in Aleppo. In this sense, efforts to resolve the tragedy in Aleppo are more important to us than operations against Bab. If Turkey cannot establish its primordial and a stable stance on the inside and the outside, no one can ever, ever expect it to be credible of its rhetoric and policies on the international plane. On the one hand, there's an operation against and conflicting contracts and talks with different countries for different regions of Syria, while talks with the Iranian-Russian line for certain regions of Syria are being held, while talks with coalition forces created by Europe and the United States. These are nothing more than temporal pragmatic initiatives, rather than creating permanent solutions to the problems of the people there. Now, I'm asking you, for God's sake, whether he's abroad or abroad, how long can we convince the environment that Turkey has a humanitarian policy in Syria, a position to try to maintain stability in Syria, a position to build a lasting peace? Is Turkey truly the owner of a foreign policy, a policy in which all peoples, all religions, all sects can feel happy and look to the future with confidence? Again, in his meaningful statement after the break, Mr. President made a statement similar to the tragedy in Aleppo, which naturally took place around the world today. We find it meaningful and valuable. However, last year, we regret to say that the country has gone bad, and that there has been serious damage to people and civilian settlements, with disproportionate forces for public safety in Kurdish areas in eastern and southeast areas -- I regret to say -- to the government officials and from our government or from our Parliament administration -- we have not been able to see an explanation that is similar to today's minimum. We found out four months ago why Şırnak and Hakkari were trying to be removed from the province after the gates of Şırnak were opened, curfew was lifted, and when we arrived at Şırnak, there was actually no province left in the middle. Mr. President and my fellow congressmen, today, Turkey may have 81, but it does not have 81 city centers, it has 80 boroughs. Today, Şırnak has no city centre; there are only police, military, courthouse, governorship and official institutions. Again, I would never say this to Aleppo to prevent what we can do. Whatever we can do, we must do together. Today, however, tens of thousands of people can't even find tents in Şırnak. He's seriously in need of shelter, and he's seriously suffering from hunger. Motivate that, whatever you want to justify it, but we still have the reality of a country where people can't meet their basic needs and it can continue in many settlements. It is interesting that when we said last year that this was not a good course for the future of this country, the ruling owners sat down and threw in operations commanders in all the districts that led to non-existent operations after July 15th, and killed civilians, including members of the Gülci officers and security forces who were later declared a terrorist organization. This cannot eliminate the political responsibility of power. Today, the commander of the Şırnak operation is inside, and the commander of the operation in Turkey's southeastern province is in prison on the charges of terrorism; so is Surun, Nusaybinin, Cizre. Now, are we or are we not still behind the practices that took place at this time last year and led to tragedy? If we're behind him, we need to think that the commanders accused of being terrorists are innocent. They did it, and they're in there on a terrorist charge. Dear lawmakers, let's say that facing the facts, facing the truth, will bring safer preparations for tomorrow. As George Orwell said, the further a community strays from the truth, the more they hate those who speak it. * George Orwell says: "The further a crowd is removed from the truth, from the truth, the more they hate those who speak the truth. " Dear lawmakers, now that we've seen Mr. Finance Minister for the first few days in the budget process, and we've seen him in the last few days, I'd like to give him a few minutes, especially over the numbers, to answer one or two issues with both his information and questions: Now, Mr. Secretary, I, especially as a member of the Plan and Budget Commission -- we've been through two budgets -- with you, with your bureaucrats, I would never underestimate your efforts. You have an effort to get the country through this financial crisis and the global impacts with the least amount of damage, but we've become a country reality where we're living an economic picture and a process that your efforts are no longer capable of. If only you and your bureaucrats were the only ones in charge of this country, I'm sure it would have worked out a lot better. But it's almost impossible for this country to be flattened when the history of economic failure of its mentors, economic mentors, is about to be found at the Presidential Palace, which has established a parallel economics administration, which is almost -- and it's not directed towards you. We're dealing with a presidential and government administration that intervenes in the interest of the Central Bank, intervenes in the process of cashing and buying dollars. Mr. Secretary, I'll give you two digits. The dollar deposit, cash in dollars for the President's people. After the call, did the dollar deposits in all the banks increase or not? I mean, people might have done it for support, maybe with three or five cents, but $27 billion in deposits went up, after the statements. Another one, Mr. Secretary, our budget is $641 billion. Look, when you submitted the draft of the budget at the end of October to our Plan Budget Commission, it was 3.07, and it was $641 billion, 208.7 billion, and today -- I just calculated from today's selection, how much -- 181.4 billion. We've lost $28 billion at once, Mr. Secretary, in international competition, in exports, since we've still established our relations on foreign currency, I'm saying we've lost almost 13 percent of our money, 13 percent of the value of our budget in foreign relations. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0050par0166	Thank you. Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0051par0168	Mr. President, in his speech here, he has expressed criticism of the government, and the Minister will respond to them at a point he already appreciates. But he said that we've made the country worse, that they've been making warnings here, and that we've been following policies that have made the southeast and the east much worse. It's an open taunt about our group. I want words from that point of view.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0050par0169	Here you go, Mr. Mush. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0052par0172	Mr. President, I'm never against it, let him express his opinion, but I don't have a line against the party group, for God's sake, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0050par0173	In a sense of your own group, I don't think you're...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0053par0174	No, I mean, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0052par0175	But you can't show anything concrete through that perception, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0054par0176	Well, then, Mr. President, I guess that's exactly how it's gonna go today, and it has to be from your point of view.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0055par0177	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0056par0180	Mr. President, we've actually made statements from this platform regarding events in certain parts of our country. But we have to make the same statements. Look, the PKK terrorist group was inspired by the north of Syria, and wanted to do the same in Turkey as its extension there. Notice, in particular, that the district and district centers he chose were the centers on the Syrian border of Turkey, where he wanted to enter a canton-like structure, where he tried to create a domain for himself. Now, within the borders of the Republic of Turkey, the state cannot allow this in any way. The AK PARTY is in power today, and the Justice and Development Party is today in the presence of our nation, and it is out of the question for it to allow it. Look, it's unfortunate to mix up Aleppo and those places. Why would the state of the Republic of Turkey make an operation against its own provinces when civilian people in Aleppo are being destroyed? The operations there are a struggle for the removal of terrorist organizations from city centers. It's a struggle to prevent our citizens from being used as living shields. He's going to trap cities, streets, buildings, and, of course, the government will make sure that this place is neutralized by cleaning them up, that's the idea. And right now, after the destruction there, in order to clean up the damage caused by the houses that were destroyed or planted during the operations, both the development plans were transferred to a serious source at the site of the reconstruction of cities and the state is in intensive work. Look, while I'm drawing attention to this, I'd like this to be expressed on this bench. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Did the government operate there for no reason? No, the government had to operate there because the terrorist organization wanted to create a domain for itself.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0057par0189	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0058par0190	Mr. President, I just, for the record...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0057par0191	Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0058par0192	I've never had a sentence that criticised government or state reality for operations against armed forces in order to ensure public safety of a state...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0059par0193	You didn't criticize the terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0058par0194	But if this operation is destroying a city from the ground up, look, you realize that you're using sentences that are very bad for this country.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0059par0195	Mr. Ahmet, I said something, I asked you a question.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0058par0196	So the whole town was armed?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0059par0197	I asked you a question.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0058par0198	I'm telling you, there's no city.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0059par0199	Mr. Ahmet, I asked you, isn't it the terrorist organization that did this?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0058par0200	I'd like to express that in particular.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0059par0201	Mr. Ahmet...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0060par0202	You can take your word for it, can't you, Mr. Mehmet?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0059par0203	I'm talking to Mr. Ahmet.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0060par0204	Then you take your word for it later.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0061par0205	I've been talking about a conclusion that by providing public safety and involving civilians living there, following a concept of total destruction, it's been revealed.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0062par0206	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0063par0207	Mr. President, I asked the clerk this question.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0062par0208	Yes, please.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0063par0209	What was the reason for the operation here? Here, the terrorist organization attempted to create a domain for itself. He may criticize the government, he may criticize the AK PARTY, but not a word has been said about the cause of it. I want to draw attention to him.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0062par0210	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0063par0211	It's because of the PKK's terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0064par0212	Well, I asked about the arrested commanders.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0065par0213	Yes, an answer to the arrested commanders...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0066par0218	Yes, the first word on behalf of the individuals now belongs to Elazığ MP Ömer Serdar. Here you are, Serdar. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0067par0222	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to talk to you today about Aleppo, who will remain a serious wound in our next life. You were shot, I thought of roses and flowers. You've been shot, children with a smile in my head, Anger-faced women have arrived. You were shot, in the moment, I have come to think of certain scriptures that must be read in blood. A prophet who went to pay his respects to Zayd. Aleppo is now under the posts of the barbarians who called themselves Muslims, who burned women, children, and murderers, in the community of the Prophet, who prayed on his back. Aleppo, where are you? Where are you, Aleppo, carrying a nation on its back capable of dying without compromising its dignity? Let the world continue to applaud the killers in the arena, where are you now, Aleppo, with the cries of women who pray for glory, honor, honor, and martyrdom in your skies? Where are you, Aleppo, where they stand beside the broken walls of the oppressed, where they long for a death without torture, without dishonor? Where are you, Aleppo, where are you, where are you, where the scoundrels and vile beasts who enjoy the killing of the orphans that the prophet carries on his back? Forgive us. Let history bear witness, that the earth bear witness, that the desert bear witness, that if we do not ask the account of every soulless child who has been brutally murdered, every single woman who has been brutally murdered, every soulless old man who has been brutally murdered, eventually history will question us. We found that there was no difference between the hypocrites who tortured the Muslims in Abu Ghraib in the eyes of the world, who were competing with the savage neocons who defiled the honors of faithful women, and the hypocrites who were in Aleppo, and the hypocrites who cried victory while they were burning women and old people alive. We're strange, we're strange, Aleppo! If you can't stop the persecution, at least announce it to everyone. Ali Shariati, who said, "I wish you would wake up and see how your violent, cruel and barbaric people compete with the infidels in persecution." Now they are friends of Esed. With their big beards and robes. Those who didn't drop the martyr Hussain have now turned Aleppo to Kerbala by the hands of the Hasdi Shabi killers. At each opportunity, they became arm in arm with what they called the great devil, the neocon. Our Lord, if anyone walks with the oppressor to help him, knowing that one is cruel, he is out of Islam. He commands and warns against persecution. That's exactly why we, Turkey, are under heavy responsibility. Because at this rate, a sect of Western and Eastern imperialists will be supported by Fascism to the Kaba gates, under the threat of Islamic geography. For this, Aleppo is not just a city reminder, because Aleppo is a symbol of the resistance of the Muslim identity, because Aleppo is our home. O Lord, Lord of the Worlds, who protects and protects the oppressed, O Lord of Power, the Most Merciful of the Merciful, protect them from the prayers of the old ones, who wish to die before they meet the voice of the Aleppoites, for their honour, and for their unbelief. You're all we've got. (Muhammad), seize the unjust by the forelock and destroy them. Lord, what time have we tarried? The world plays blind and deaf. Let them rejoice in the joys of the wretched, the barbarians, and the damned, over their broken Muslim bodies. As thou hast broken the army of Ebabil, and of Ebrehe, with thy army, which is not seen, break the army of these evildoers, and destroy them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I beg you for a moment.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0068par0235	I didn't give it to anyone, Serdar. Finish it, please. I didn't give it to anyone, so it's not fair.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0067par0236	And now that you are in safe hands, you have bread in your homeland, and water in your homeland, and you will not go hungry, nor will you go thirsty. And you, woman of honor, are in a safe place. You will be safe in your homeland, and you will never cry, because know well that God's help is near. And O people of Aleppo, you have won, everyone has lost; we have all lost...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0069par0240	Thank you, Your Serdar. Now, the second word on behalf of the individuals belongs to Samsun MP Hayati Tekin. Here you go, Mr. Tekin.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0070par0244	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I ask God's mercy and immediate healing for the wounded, for our police officers and civilian citizens who have died in the traitorous attack on Beşiktas. I condemn the massacres in Aleppo. However, we also listened to emotional conversations, and I wish that the name of America, the first founder, should have been mentioned while condemning all the founders. Dear MPs, as you know, in accordance with the 6360 Metropolitan Law, which came into effect about three years ago, many municipalities have been shut down, while the villages have lost their corporate personalities and returned to the neighborhood. Neither the villagers were asked, nor the city members; the city municipalities became kings, and the district municipalities became mayors. Mr. Kadir was my manager then, and I was the mayor for 15 years. He said that when this law came out, no one was asked, and no one was asked what had been changed. Neighborhood chiefs have also been prattling about things that aren't directly related to them. Why did he get to be a kidder? Because in the first place, all the rights of the peasant were taken from him, and he became a handful, and the rights of property and solidarity of the villages are finished, and now he doesn't even have a cemetery. The village people and the townsfolk beg the mayor for a service to me in despair, and the mayor begs the mayor for the resources he has, so the mayor gives his resources to the most flashy centers in the county or to the biggest squares in that neighborhood. Of course, by the way, he doesn't forget to advertise twice as much as he spends on giant billboards. Only the citizens are responsible for the events in the country and villages. Now, they're going to pay property tax, land tax, water money, waste water, registration fees in buildings they're going to build. Let's see what other taxes are next, we'll all see. So, what's the situation in developed countries? When we look at those international obligations that we've accepted, which we've signed, which are proportional to our population, 35,552 municipalities in France and 8,506 municipalities in Germany, we're trying to figure out how to shut down municipalities. According to recent reports, Mr. President has announced that he will declare 30 new capital cities. When I look back, I see the goal, it's not to solve the problems of the citizens, it's to take the initiative in one hand, it's to capture the rate of development. The construction ran out of the rant economy, which I'd like to see clearly, we're up against the wall. So, what's the solution? The solution is to increase the production resources of our municipalities and make their budgets affordable, otherwise they will always continue to swim in debt. In addition, closed nearby areas can be combined, strengthened, and delivered to a citizen's foot. Another more serious issue is a separate disaster in the east and southeast, with the implementation of Metropolitan Law 6360. You have gathered authority in one hand with the Metropolitan Law, but you have not activated the control mechanism. For this reason, practices such as the pits of city-owned business machines that support terrorism have been dug, trucks carrying explosives, wages paid to non-employees have been silent, while AKP has become a traitor. The same thing happened in the incident that committed the July 15th betrayal; 17 to 25 December, for some reason the partnership is over, the ministers have resigned, the dollars have been dropped, the interest of the denied money has been taken. In short, everything fits, but the traps for the citizen continued. Let's explain how it happened. If it was an act of crime, why wasn't it closed? Bank Asia Hakeza. The classrooms were open, the schools continued to study; their televisions, newspapers, subscriptions were on; the business association was on. Why didn't you turn it off? So you set these people up. The government is responsible for the victims. When the government did not breach its name, its own structure, it became a stranger, as it was called. Now new perceptions have begun. Yesterday, we're looking at a national mobilization. I thought there was a war on Russia. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The terrorists you're feeding the wrong policies, the ones you're letting go, they're only going to make our image smaller. These are the final points. I'm getting the benefit of the doubt. Thank you, I salute the House.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0071par0258	Thank you, Mr. Tekin. Now we're going to do the QA...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0072par0260	Mr. President, the speaker used very heavy, inappropriate statements.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0073par0261	I'm behind him.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0072par0262	He used such expressions as "profits" and "profits." This is our party group...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0074par0263	How? I don't quite understand, sorry.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0072par0264	He must have mentioned that we were willing to turn a blind eye to betrayal. That's a serious accusation. That's unacceptable for us.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0074par0265	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0075par0266	Mr. President, I mean, there's something wrong with criticism...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0074par0267	Congressmans, yes, I don't promise to tease those who are at the critical level, but I do have to take on a number of abuses that go beyond criticism. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0076par0271	Mr. President, we're paying attention to the criticism here. Of course he can. At the point of these criticisms, we're not taking any promises, but if you go out and accuse us of treason, I'm sorry, it's not criticism, it's insult. That's out of the question. Besides, the understanding that we have here at the point of counterterrorism is taking place in front of our nation.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0077par0272	Haven't there been any mistakes?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0076par0273	You've made the same statements or allegations you've made before the election. You've also prepared some pamphlets, and you've been in public. People have given you opposition. Therein He hath made fairseeming unto you that which ye say, for which there is no reward. Another is, look, valued lawmakers, after we were 17-25, we went into a relentless struggle with this structure, with the terrorist organization, and we fought all kinds of battles from state institutions to the point of being wiped out.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0077par0275	Yeah, who put it there? Who put you up to this?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0076par0276	I showed it in my budget speech, but it makes me sad to say the same thing from here, believe me. Look, after 17-25, while we're going into such a relentless struggle, there's no other way in hell we're going to run from this country. If he runs, we'll bring him back. Your president said so. Friends, while we have the challenge here, you will support this challenge in addition to power. This is just an example.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0078par0277	No?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0079par0278	Is 17-25 true or not?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0080par0279	There was an open check.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0081par0280	Now, you can't say that on this stand, ignoring that, ignoring that. We can increase examples of this, we can increase examples of this.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0079par0281	Tell me if 17-25 is true or not. No, it's a coup! Your partner did it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0081par0282	In the same way, you will tell me from this platform who is shielding themselves from shutting them down while an operation is being carried out on the Å channels.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0082par0283	We gave them what they wanted. Who was it?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0079par0284	Is 17-25 true or not?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0081par0285	Who was putting themselves out there? We couldn't go into the editor-in-chief's office and cry ourselves to death. You will tell us from this stage who is the one who is crying. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0083par0288	Yeah, you better tell me.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0084par0289	You were tied up in front of him. Hand-to-hand couch! You were praying behind her back.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0085par0290	All of you have taken the liberty of becoming deputy minister, minister, mayor of Pennsylvania.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0086par0291	One moment, members of lawmakers, I promise Mr. Gök...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0087par0292	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0086par0293	Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0087par0294	He also made an assessment of our president and made a mockery of it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0086par0295	Here, I promise you for two minutes without picking on me. Please, don't challenge a new taunt.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0088par0296	Visitors sit next to you, shame on you!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0089par0297	You used to pray together, you used to tie your heads like this...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0086par0298	Mr. Aghababa, I have invited your deputy group president to the stand. Please, Mr. Lawmakers... Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0090par0301	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, it's really not surprising for us to face an attitude that denies their previous position when they move forward in a way that they walk together in a part of life, in a way that is related to the PKK, as well as to the talks of that day. Look, your President, we got wet together on these roads, we walked together on this road. Didn't he say?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0091par0303	We walked with people, people!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0092par0304	The president is the president of the entire nation. There is no such thing as our President, the president of the entire nation.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0090par0305	The Republican People's Party in power? The AKP is in power.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0093par0306	Yes!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0090par0307	He's fine when we walk together. A group of your vice presidents says I shouldn't name it... look, the Republican People's Party is a very dangerous organization. When he says, "Fight with this organization," he comes up on the stand two years ago, calling out to the Fetullahists, friends, look, the CHP is exploiting it. He says, "We saved Fetullah Smiley, we granted him forgiveness, we saved him from punishment." That's your group vice president. [[Applause from CHP rows]] There's not a single person from the Republican People's Party who has a photo with Fetullah Gulen.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0094par0311	Your president does.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0090par0312	But I'll take pictures of a lot of our friends in the AKP Group, and then you can't answer them.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0095par0313	Kissing hands, standing in respect!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0090par0314	The same is true of the PKK. Again, we instructed the governors and the governors to ignore them. Didn't he say? Who said that? Can you answer these?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0096par0315	We'll give it to you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0090par0316	Now, look, that's not the way. We are also with you in the fight against the PKK; we also say so, we underline it. Let us not go wrong, let us not go wrong; it does not go wrong, but it does lead astray. We support the government to the end -- unconditionally on this matter -- with the PKK, with the DHKP, with the ISIS.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0097par0319	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0090par0320	There's no hesitation in that, but we'll see what we've done wrong, dear friends.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0098par0322	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0099par0323	Mr. President, this is what is expected of a main opposition party at the counter-terrorism point that Mr. Hati said in the last section. The main opposition party is a party seeking power; there is nothing more natural than its support for the government at the point of counterterrorism. My criticism was that after it was discovered that this structure was an organized structure, the way the Justice and Development Party stood up against it...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0098par0325	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0099par0326	At this point, our party, our government, has struggled with this structure with all its strength. At the same time, never, ever, ever have police units been instructed to ignore members of the PKK terror organization, PKK terrorists. You're going to put it out there, you're going to get an order if you have one.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0098par0327	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0100par0328	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0098par0329	Mr. Sky, let's close up.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0100par0330	Let's close it up. Now, the AKP Group has a mood like this: I mean, there's a different position about one event, another period, and then there's a different position. The Republican People's Party has appeared in the same position as the People's Party and the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). I'll take the President's word I just expressed and show it to him here. Oh, the President, in what sense did he say it, why did he say it, I suppose the President would make his assessment, but those words were spoken. Mr. Bulent Arinc, former AKP ministers such as Mr. Hussein Çelik have very important words to say. More gravely, we all knew about Diyarbakır's former police chief, Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) as they dug the moats and planted the ammunition. Now, that's what we're critical of. Why are they ignored, and why are they pardoned?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0101par0334	It's on the record, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0100par0335	Turkey has become a place of fire. I mean, of course the opposition can't be responsible for this, we're not.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0101par0336	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0100par0337	Naturally, in every case in Turkey, the ruling party has a political responsibility, whether it knows it or not; it is the nature of politics.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0101par0338	Thank you. But Mr. Gök, when we walked together on these roads, he said with the saintly nation, that he was walking with the nation, that he should not retreat.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0100par0340	One sentence, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0101par0341	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0100par0342	Mr. President, Mr. President, we are two movements in the same range. Didn't he say that, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0101par0344	He said he was walking with his people. Now we do the question-answer process for ten minutes. I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to the MPs who entered the system, Mr. Engin, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0102par0352	Mr. Secretary, my question is about our employees at 4/C status and our university workers. In recent years, after privatisations, employees of the public's 4/Cίli status have been deprived of all acquired rights, and their victims remain. They can't use their titles, they don't have signing authority; they're forced to work on a lower salary than those of the staff who do the same job without promotions, degrees, rankings. In August 2015, the government signed a third-term collective contract of public officials covering 2016-2017, which promised to end the victims of both university workers and 4/CH employees. It's been a year and a half since the collective agreement, and you still haven't taken a concrete step. When will you fulfill your promise before the election? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0103par0356	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0104par0357	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, two weeks ago AKP Parliament Speaker Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı was treated badly at the airport in Germany. And yesterday, it was 1300 hours. Seven Turkish citizens from Istanbul to Moscow have arrived at Moscow airport at 3:40 p.m. and have been held for four hours at the airport without any grounds. Despite their talks with the consulate and with the foreign representatives at the airport, the results were inconclusive. I would like to extend my regards to these citizens to the end of Russian abuse, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0105par0360	Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0106par0361	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Minister of Finance. A total of 143 employees of the IRS have been discharged in accordance with the law. There is no investigation into these employees of yours, including the head of the BES and its branch presidents. What is the crime of your employees, will you help them return to duty?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0105par0363	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0107par0364	On 29 November 2015, the province of Malatya, located on the east Anatolian fault line, was hit by earthquakes in many villages, particularly Dursunlu, Sarıgirl, in the city of Hekimhan and Kuluncak, in the first-degree earthquake region of Malatya. It's been a year since the earthquake, and the earthquake victims haven't been helped in over a year. Bureaucracy, unfortunately, is in the way, and the earthquake victims are not helped by bureaucratic obstacles. The most important problem the rightful owners face is the presence of a second residence within the territory of the victim and his wife. As it is known, everyone has a house in the villages, and they have to have one in the provinces. That's why it can't be helped. That understanding needs to change. In addition, the demand for earthquake insurance from the villagers also victimizes the villagers, and the brick house in the village has insurance? They ask the villagers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The situation will be more understandable when 297 damaged homes are considered to be earthquake insurance. We expect help in this matter.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0105par0367	Mr. Özdemir, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0108par0368	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the demands for the appointment of veterinary, food, agricultural engineers, trade groups to public institutions and institutions are heavily forwarded to our side. Do you plan to make arrangements to consider these demands and expectations in the coming period?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0105par0370	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0109par0371	I'm asking the Minister of Finance: our pensions are very low. This year's increase has also been determined at 3% in January to be 4% in July, and the increase is not equal to the cost of living. Do you plan to give our pensioners a bonus at Ramadan and the Festival of Sacrifice? Two: Public staff's salary against inflation has been very low. Do you plan to give all public personnel a bonus at Ramadan and the Festival of Sacrifice? Three: The special consumption tax on cigarettes is very high, and it is still being raised. These burdens, especially on foreign cigarettes, are constantly supporting illegal smoking because of the OTV, which is being sold heavily, causing a great deal of damage to the state. Thus, injustice is created among the sellers. Do you intend to reduce the SVP on foreign cigarettes to correct it? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0110par0375	Mr. Purchu, I promise you, there's only a little time left.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0111par0376	Thank you, Mr. President. My question, Mr. Finance Minister: Mr. Minister, I want to ask you specifically, how much money have you made in public this year for investments in İzmir (Izmir) and İzmir (Izmir)? Also, this year, we have not seen anything in the budget about Roman strategy and action plan, and we wish to see it in years to come. Do we have any work to do on this?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0112par0379	Thank you. Now to answer the questions, I'll leave it to the Minister.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0113par0381	Mr. President, thank you. As part of the privatisation, he had an assessment of our friends who worked at 4/C status. First of all, it's also a fact that important improvements have been made, as a result of privatisation practices, in connection with these friends of ours who have been ordered to head of State Staff and assigned to public institutions. In particular, these friends were allowed to work as temporary staff in both public institutions, while the ten months before was extended to 11 months in 2010, and 11 months in 2012 to 28 days. Again, in the later years, there have been constant improvements in the rights of self - control, which is useful to express. During December 2004-2016, temporary staff's salaries increased by 336 per cent to 388 per cent cumulatively. Given that the inflation rate in this period is 152%, it would be possible to see significant improvements in our staff's rights to equity.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0114par0384	The item involved in the collective contract...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0113par0385	Mr. Lightning, in Russia, I believe he said something about passengers, but let's look into it, if you think it's appropriate. It's not something we know about. We'll share it with you after we get the information.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0115par0386	The State Department and the consulate also have information, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0113par0387	Sure. We'll have some friends from the State Department ask. Mr. Tarhan, they worked for the Treasury and asked a question about the personnel who were ordered under the law. You know, in all these savings, these procedures are carried out in accordance with the rules of the laws issued under the state of emergency. Those who belong to terrorist organisations, those who have defects, those who are involved, those who are related, and the detection of their detection methods are set in the general framework for the implementation of legislation. In line with this, a certain number of public personnel have been dismissed from the Finance Ministry.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0116par0389	No investigations, Mr. Secretary, no investigations.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0113par0390	But it's a good thing to put it this way, we don't have to take the wrong way: we don't see the fact that a person has become a union member in any way, as a factor, as a determinant, when we're doing these savings on individuals. We're saving this by moving from the individual's own information. As a matter of fact, many of our friends, who are members of the trade union, continue to work at the Finance Ministry.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0116par0391	There is no investigation, Minister, I have the list.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0113par0392	Mr. Ağbaba, they expressed their victimship because of the earthquake in Malatya. First of all, get well with all our villagers. May my Lord never compare this kind of calamity again. If you don't mind, I'd like to ask AFAD for some information on this matter. I'll share it with you when I get back from them. Mr. Özdemir, of course, when our students graduate, they first want a public job. I understand that, but on the other hand, the resources of the budget are being planned by taking into account the personnel needs of public administration. In very different majors, our different students graduate from schools. In this framework, hopefully, we'll be considering all of this, and we'll be planning staff for 2017. Mr. Arslan has made some assessments of the salaries taken by our pensioners. My data shows a different picture. So, in 2002, when the AK PARTI came to power, they had a pension, public employees had salaries. From that date to today, the previous one happened, but this way from 2002, look, the average officer's salary was $578 in 2002, and the average officer's salary is now up to $2.979.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0117par0395	Let's make a bonus on the holidays, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0113par0396	So there's about 415 percent increase here, and the real increase is 57 percent. Now, I don't need to share this with you over and over again. The numbers are the official figures of the state.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0118par0398	Complete, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0113par0399	Both our officers and our other public employees and pensioners have grown above inflation at this time every semester; their prosperity levels have increased at this time, and their purchasing powers have increased during this period. In particular, I'll tell you that. If you look at the special consumption tax on cigarettes as a whole over the years, as a whole... on the one hand, you know, the tax on smoking is tax. The victim's tax is to be adjusted over the years. On the other hand, of course, we all have the sensitivity of you, of us, of smoking, and I think it's a good thing to take that into account.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0119par0401	The market is full of illegal cigarettes, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0113par0402	Mr. Purçu, I'm going to find out about investments in İzmir, but we love our Roma brothers -- we love all social areas, of course -- so if there's a study of strategy in our Ministry of the Family about our ministry, we've always had positive efforts as a government on all social areas. I hope we'll make good efforts on this one, too.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0120par0403	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We also love Mr. Purchu, and ask that his demands be taken into consideration. Congressmans, there is a motion on Article 10 that I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the declaration to district municipalities for villages which have been transformed into neighborhoods at the end of Article (1) (b) of Article 10 of the 2017 Budget Law Bill, which is currently in session. Mustafa Kalaycı İsmail Faruk Aksu Erhan Usta Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0121par0413	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0120par0414	Government?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0122par0415	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0123par0416	Motive...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit02spe0120par0417	I'm reading the reason: The KYODES Project also aims to exploit villages that have been converted from KYODES to neighborhoods through district municipalities. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0120par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill. The commission and the government are in place. MADDE 11- (1) The Defense Industry Support Fund, established by Law 7/11/1938 and established under the strategic target plan by the Turkish Armed Forces, provided that the funds and other similar and transplantable resources are provided by the Defence Industry Executive Committee, as well as the funds set up for this purpose, along with the necessary modern weapons, tools and equipment, and investments in NATO infrastructure. (2) United Nations Defence Ministry, Gen. General Command and Coastal Security Command budgeted funds will be determined according to the first joke provisions assigned to the current budget; from the current funds assigned to the Security Directorate through budgets to armored vehicles, aircraft and helicopters (IHA), flight simulator and Electronic Harp (HEWS) project; from the current funds assigned to the Security Directorate through budgets; from the current funds to the budget of these budgets to the General Directorate; from the budget to the budgets of the budgets of the budgets for motorbots; from the budget to the budgets provided to the General Directorate; from the budget to the budget of the budget, from the budget to the budget for the budget of the budget, to the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Health of Health; from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to the Commission of Foreign Affairs and from the European Affairs, to the Commission, and from the Commission on the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission of Foreign Affairs, to the Commission, and from the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the budget, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the budget, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the European of the Commission for the budget, to the budget, and to the Commission, and to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, and to the Commission, to the Commission, and to the Commission, to the Commission, and to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, and to the European of the budget, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, and to the Commission, and to the European of the Commission, to the Commission, and to the European of the Commission, and to the European of the Commission, and to the European of the European of the European of the European of Foreign Office of the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, and to the European for the Commission, to the European (3) The amount from the Defence Industry Support Fund to the Treasury comes to the general budget, while the Finance Minister is authorized to register funds for the relevant arrangements of the National Ministry of Defence budget and to transfer funds for the past years. In accordance with budget laws, the years concerned are placed into the central accounting unit of the general budgetary administration of the Defence Industry Support Fund, and the appropriate budgetary administration (B) is registered into the accounting department's account bookkeeping unit. In general budgetary administrations, the Minister of Finance is in charge of saving funds for the budgetary budget, while in private budgetary administrations, he is in charge of a special budgetary administration. The annual investment programme links the grant register to administrations outside the National Ministry of Defence, the Gendarme General Command and the Coast Guard Command. The first statement on the 11th article is from Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0124par0013	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding Article 11 of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill. I hereby salute your high council. Mr. President, I'd like to talk a little bit about the drama and attacks in Aleppo, which I brought up in yesterday's talks. For twenty-four years, the Syrian Turkmen had maintained their national sensibility despite the pressure of the Baas dictatorship for fifty-three years, under pressure in their language and culture, and suffered a great deal of suffering, such as being ignored by state administration, and paid heavy prices for national values. The Turkmen, as opponents, set their ranks against the Syrian regime from the very beginning. At the beginning of the war, the Hummus Turkmen were subjected to great persecution; Zara, his Bab Amr Türkmen were ethnically cleansed by the regime. Since the beginning of the war, the Damascus and Golon Turkmen have been fighting for a great life under the blockade of the regime. In particular, because of heavy bombings against Mount Turkmen, most of the region is out of Turkmen's hands, there are no civilians left in the region, while young people are still struggling to protect their territory. The Rakka Turkmen were also exposed in May last year, when the DEA checked the area. In Aleppo, which has been exposed to the world's most terrifying blockade and bombings for months, with recent developments, today mankind is exhausted, the words are finished. Turkmen neighborhoods in Aleppo are completely in the hands of regime and PYD terrorists. The missiles that fell on Aleppo, the bullets that were fired in Telafer, the bombs that exploded in Ankara, Istanbul, are the dirty games of the same sneaky focal points. Turkey's security line begins in Kerkuk, passes through Mosul, Rakka, Aleppo (also known as Bayır Bucak) to the Mediterranean. The protection of Turkmen in this geography guarantees Turkey's national security. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers, the 11th article of the 2017 budget, contain regulations that determine how to conduct transactions related to funds and specifically how to create the Defense Industry Support Fund sources. Under the strategic target plan of the Turkish Armed Forces and the necessary plans for the General Command and Coast Guard Command, arrangements are being made to provide the necessary modern weapons, tools and equipment for defences and spending on NATO infrastructure investments during the year. In addition, provisions from the Defense Industry Support Fund and the Defence Industry Support Fund include budgeting the unusable portion of the funds to be invested in the Treasury. Dear lawmakers, we can define the fund as money collected and spent in a particular account, which is reserved for the fulfillment of a specific purpose, to be used at the proper time. Turkish Armed Forces can become one of the world's most deterrent armies, the responsibility of Turkey's geopolitical, geostrategic position, historical and cultural heritage. In this direction, the future planning for boosting its physical, technological and human capacity must be done in a healthy way, and Turkish Armed Forces should be encouraged to invest in the development of a high export capacity, independent and domestic military industry and the production of weapons and military equipment. Defence industry technologies such as materials technologies, electronic warfare, aviation, space and satellite technologies, network-based warfare, drones, guidance and control technology must be supported and produced. In order to ensure the safety of information in the defence industry, the national software system must be developed and implemented. This is possible only if Turkey takes steps to determine primary areas in the field of defence industry rather than trying to do everything. Turkey's weapons systems projects, which are currently running, are not 100 per cent, contrary to what the EC PARTI governments say. Many projects are done with parts and advice from foreign companies. Reflecting these projects 100 percent would be nothing more than deceiving ourselves. For example, as long as we're dependent on the outside of a tank or helicopter engine, Turkey's opening to new markets is possible only if it's the consent of countries who sell us subsystems. In order to sell the ATAK helicopter to countries such as Azerbaijan or Pakistan, we need permission from the United States or the United Kingdom. In short, the increase of Turkey's market share depends on the consent of its partners in critical subsystems, which is the biggest obstacle to the nationality of projects. Turkey's defence industry policy's primary goal is to ensure that Turkish Defence Industry companies are sustainable, that our imports in certain areas should be reduced over time. We, the National Movement Party, predict that the defence industry must be completely independent and that an independent national defence industry will be established. Defense industry should be restored to a technology-generating structure, not to transfer technology. Defense industry must be largely saved from being dependent on the outside in logistical needs. Defence expenditures must be made primarily within the national supply system, and the decision of relevant units to determine supply needs must be made within co-ordination. Dear lawmakers, the geopolitical and geostrategic situation in which our country is involved forces us to be strong in this region. To be strong as a country is to have a strong and modern army. In short, it is possible to become a nation, an army, a nation, to build a national war industry. There is a statement in the Turkish nation: "The army is our pupil." He says, "When sending his children into the army, he sends them with drums, with drums, with zurna, with henna, with henna." To me, the army is more our heart than our eyeballs. If the heart doesn't beat, the heart stops, the whole body becomes a corpse. Precious lawmakers have been exposed to accusations such as Ergenekon, Balyoz, Espionage, Cosmic Room, and others have been the prosecutors, judges of these cases. But on July 15th, we saw that the mindset, which wanted to wear down the army, discredit it, infiltrated the army through various games, had the opportunity to rise to the ranks of operations, to the headquarters of the army. Fortunately, members of the Turkish army, who loved their country and their nation, grew up with a sense of military-nationality, were prevented from committing a treacherous, treacherous coup by the heroic Turkish police and the saintly Turkish nation. Today, hero Mehmetyk and our police are writing epics inside and out. May my Lord make them successful in their struggle against the treacherous terror organizations for the integrity of our country, for the unity and unity of our nation. On this occasion, I wish God's mercy to our martyrs, to heal our veterans. I wish the budget to be good for our country and our nation, condemning the human drama in Aleppo, and saying that our prayers are with them, I salute the Veteran Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0125par0030	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Adana MP İbrahim Özdish (Ibrahim Özdish) belongs to the Republican People's Party. Here you go, Mr. Özdish.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0034	Mr. President, on behalf of the CHP Group, I salute you all. From whomever it comes, I curse PKK, ISIS and other acts of terror. For those who have lost their lives in terrorist attacks, for our lives, for God's mercy, for their families, and for our wounded citizens. Dear lawmakers, we don't see any investments in 15 years of AKP power that are of high value. The double road, the bridge, contributes to the country's economy; it's impossible to understand. Why isn't a high-profit investment being discussed in economic and scientific development? No, sir, Europe was jealous of us. Look, I'll give you an example. Germany's Volkswagen has a 2013 turnover of 200 billion euros, Turkey's non-billion dollars in 2013. So the turnover of a single car company in Germany is one quarter of our country, our country's income. Now, I'm asking, are we gonna be jealous of them or are they gonna be jealous of us? I'll pass. Dear MPs, Nabi Avcı, Minister, I'm in trouble, I'm waiting for a prayer. Mehmet Simsek, Prime Minister...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0127par0038	His assistant.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0039	Turkey is having the most difficult time since World War I, he says. Prime Minister Erdogan of the period, 2015, we politicians are responsible for the murders committed in our country because the people vote for my safety in life and property. Again, just yesterday, Mr. President, should this country be like this, over 11 per cent of unemployment? No investment, no production, he says. I'm quoting them here. So who's been running this country for 14 years? Those who say those words rule. And what does that mean? It means, dear friends, that we have brought this country to the brink of bankruptcy. They mean, they say, "Yu-ne-te-mi-yo-ruz." It's very clear. (CHEERING) This is a confession, my dear friends. So, what do we say? You can't manage, do as you're told. We don't destroy. They say, "Wait, the rest is behind." What more can we do to you? What could be worse than that? I'll tell you: a freaky, freaky system in political literature where all corruption crimes are not to be brought to the agenda, not to be described in political literature, not to be made in full description, not to be carried out, not to be allowed to govern, to rule the judiciary, to break the House if necessary. This is the attempt to shape Turkey's fate, its regime, its Constitution, in the interest of one person, dear friends. It's ignorance, deception, even treason, my dear friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, if you continue to polarize society and divide the world into sharp fronts in order to bring this one-man system of your own, to win more votes in the ballot box, the world's history has shown that our destination as a country will be tears, blood, or hell pits. Mr. President, you appear to be a leader who's willing to fight a civil war for your personal ambition. Your stubbornness, your policies, your practices have no other description, no other reason. There isn't a second name in this country that speaks, divides, divides.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0128par0045	On the contrary, on the contrary!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0046	Dear MPs, the 14-year process has shown that Turkey...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0129par0047	Mr. Özdish, be careful what you say about Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0048	I'm paying attention, Mr. President, I am.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0129par0049	You have to be careful.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0050	I speak very carefully, I speak on purpose, I insist.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0130par0052	Remember the one-party rule period?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0053	Dear friends, everything in Turkey's interest is against Mr. President. I'm afraid everything that works for Mr. President is against Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0131par0054	Don't be ridiculous!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0055	He's risking the lives of the entire country, including his own constituent, to secure the position of himself and his very close circle.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0132par0056	You go and tell that to Kılıçdaroğlu.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0057	Dear lawmakers, since the President has been elected...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0132par0058	Tell it to Kilicdaroğlu.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0059	...for several times, we know that he doesn't recognize the decisions made by the Constitutional Court, which he doesn't benefit from, and yet he's sworn to do so, but he's not doing his duty objectively.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0132par0060	You were saying yourself that the Constitutional Court is making the wrong decision.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0061	It's a constitutional offense. It's an attempt against constitutional order. People have the right to resist attempts against constitutional order, and it has been accepted by the President, as he called the people to the streets in the attempt.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0133par0063	He shouldn't have called you?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0064	Those who go out on the street during the travel resistance have no problem inviting people out to the streets when it comes to their own interests, pointing out the streets. What a righteous way to search for rights of travel, an action to radicalize our democracy, was revealed today after the coup. And we say that with your freaky, freakish regime change, we will strike back against your plan to drive our country into darkness.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0134par0066	It'll fit, it'll fit!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0067	We'll continue to be marauders, as you call it. We'll pay whatever price needs to be paid for it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0134par0068	Why are you shaking your hand? What do you mean?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0069	Dear lawmakers, is patriotism to stick around the leader, or is patriotism, despite the leader, the right, the courage to tell his people and politicians that he knows the truth?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0134par0070	This nation showed patriotism on July 15th.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0071	As the great revolutionary Sea Gezmis said, the country is the land of those who went to the gallows for it, not for those who sold it as a parcel.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0134par0072	Look at your history, what have you done for this nation, for this country?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0073	This country is our country, we will not divide it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0134par0074	What did you put up? Tell me what you have put forth for this nation, for this country, and speak of it. Watch your language!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0135par0075	Mr. Özdish, look, I'm warning you! Please, collect your speech.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0076	Mr. President, let's put aside the ethnicity, faith, lifestyle differences, which do not contribute to a person's personality, morality, hard work, to being a good person, not to being a good person, but to be loyal, to think about the future of our country, not of your personal future, but of your regime change, so that we can give up a united Turkey for our children.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0134par0077	You want us to keep crawling, I congratulate you, and that's why people don't vote for you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0078	Dear MPs, Hosni Mahalli was taken into custody two days ago in the evening hours. We warned him he might have a health problem, he did last night. You've taken a 67-year-old person, a patriot, who has made every effort for the future of this country, unfortunately, into custody.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0134par0079	He's on trial, judgment.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0136par0080	He's on trial, judgment. Do you also object to the judgment?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0081	If you had listened to Hosni Mahalli, we would not have been dragged into the Middle East swamp today.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0134par0082	He's on trial, judgment. They went on trial.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0083	Dear MPs, as the CHP Group, we will continue to tell our people the truth as always. I salute the Veterans' House with respect, with respect, with love.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0134par0086	The citizen is paying you back.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0137par0087	Mr. Özdish, look, I've warned you a few times. Patriotism doesn't mean looting, and I want to express it specifically to you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0088	I spoke from the President's mouth, sir, no. That's not mine, that's the President's.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0137par0089	Patriotism is about wearing a shroud against every threat, your country, your nation, and I want you to know that.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0090	Patriotism is defending democracy. That's the President's word, not mine.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0137par0091	Look, Mr. President isn't the one who splits it, Mr. President is the one who unites it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0092	I quote Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0137par0093	Open and read Article 104 of the Constitution. You are in violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0094	No, I'm not.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0138par0095	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0137par0096	Article 104 of the Constitution is the head of the President's state. It represents the Republic of Turkey and the unity of the Turkish Nation. He's not a divider, he's a representative of the union.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0126par0097	Sir, I quoted the President, I quoted him.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0138par0098	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0139par0099	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0140par0100	You may not like it, but it's a elected President who has been elected by 52 per cent of this nation's votes, and you have to show maximum respect. I'm sorry, he doesn't deserve this kind of insult, and neither does this nation, nor does our President.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0141par0101	I'm not insulting you, I'm holding a mirror. Mr. President, I'm holding a mirror, a mirror. I'm not insulting you. Look, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0142par0102	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0143par0103	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0144par0104	Mr. Sky, I promise. You can criticize, we all respect your criticism, but it's not possible to accept such accusations beyond severe criticism, and I want you to know that. Because according to the Constitution, he is the head of the state, representing the unity of the nation.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0145par0106	Neutral...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0146par0107	Neutral...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0147par0108	I called him Mr. President. What else do we have to say?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0148par0109	Your statements to him, please, but please be careful. Criticize, not accuse.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0147par0110	I held a mirror, sir, a mirror.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0149par0111	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0148par0112	Don't report it, don't insult it, but do your criticism.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0147par0113	I'm not, no, I'm not insulting you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0150par0114	Mr. President, what insult do we not understand?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0147par0115	Where's the insult in that, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0151par0116	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0152par0117	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0153par0118	Mr. Mush, just a second. I'll give it to Mr. Gök. I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0154par0119	My dear President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0153par0120	Sir, I'll give it to you. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0155par0122	Mr. President, our speaker expressed a statement from the President. You answer with an assessment of that word the way our friend said it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0156par0123	Don't act!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0153par0124	And you listened.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0155par0125	Look, no. Look, I'm saying that there's something you're misunderstanding about.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0157par0126	Everyone listened. We didn't misunderstand. He's wrong.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0158par0127	We heard what you said. All these guys got it wrong! He confessed himself, he called them marauders.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0155par0128	If you bring in the transcripts and look at them, you're criticizing our friend over something you misunderstood. Now, this is the people's stand. Everyone has to put up with the harshest criticism, not to be insulted here. For once, is it possible for you to give us credible evidence that the President is neutral? If he's so involved in politics, if he tries so much to shape Turkey, then of course the President will have his share of criticism from all our friends. You shouldn't be afraid of that. It is a responsibility for all politicians to endure severe criticism, not to be insulted.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0159par0130	Yes, Mr. Sky, criticism is one thing, but insulting is another. We can't accept that either.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0160par0131	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0159par0132	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0160par0133	There's a lot of insults to our group here. We're facing charges of treason. It's an open taunt. Criticism is one thing, but it's one thing to accuse us like this. I want a promise.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0161par0134	Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0159par0135	Mr. Gök, I've already said what I'm going to say about Mr. President, but it's only natural that the vice president of the group, in turn, would want to take a stand.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0161par0136	What did he say about the band?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0159par0137	Here you go, Mr. Mush. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'll give you two minutes. Let's not afford another tease, please.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0162par0141	There's nothing here about the band.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0159par0142	We've heard their testimony to the group, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0162par0143	Mr. President, there's nothing about the group.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0163par0146	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, no one needs your mirror, so hold onto the mirror and see how you're doing.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0164par0147	You think so?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0163par0148	They've made regime change into their tongues here.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0164par0149	Yeah...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0163par0150	No regime change, guys. The state of the Republic of Turkey will remain.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0165par0152	So, what's the change in your last offer, brother?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0163par0153	The government system is being discussed here, and there is a change in the government system. What do you mean? The parliamentary system on one side, the presidential system on the other, what's as natural as going to the nation? Why are you afraid of the will of the people and why? Why are you afraid to ask people?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0166par0154	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0165par0155	The reason is that he's the president. No matter how far the criminal escapes, he leaves behind evidence. Look at the motive. In his motive, the last paragraph, the last sentence, ▪ The presidential system. You're fooling the people, you're scamming them!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0163par0156	The second, the esteemed lawmakers, see, no one has to be afraid of the nation, we ask the people, whatever they decide, we put them on top of our heads. The Republic is not your monopoly, it is the common value of 80 million citizens. The speaker who stands on every stand from here... is the head of the state of the Republic of Turkey, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0166par0157	We've already said "Mr." We called him Mr. President. What did we say?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0163par0158	It is chosen by 52 percent, representing the state. So we're going to do the minutes here, we're going to do the minutes here, and we're going to do the minutes here, and we're going to do what is legally necessary, and in this sense, I'm going to be a congressman, and as a party group, we're going to take the necessary steps.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0167par0159	The courts are waiting for you, give your prosecutor the order.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0163par0160	Something like this is not acceptable. He's always trying to create a self-criticism from the president over the insult.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0168par0161	What do we do? It's about the President.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0163par0162	It was a one-man regime. Dear lawmakers, don't these people know what a regime is, what a government system is? Why are we afraid to go to 80 million citizens and ask, but we're always talking about one man?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0168par0163	One man!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0169par0164	Did he get 50% of the vote in their lives?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0163par0165	In this regard, I would say that we have rejected all of these allegations, which are unbecoming of the General Assembly. It has something to do with a person who stands in the representation of the state of the Republic of Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I invite you to use your statements in a cleaner language.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0170par0169	My tongue is very clean. It's very clean. I called him Mr. President. I'm being critical here, it's my biggest mission.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0163par0170	It's a dirty language.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0171par0171	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0172par0172	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0171par0173	Sir, Mr. Speaker, in his speech...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0173par0174	I'm being critical here, it's my biggest mission.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0174par0175	It's a dirty language, hold the mirror to yourself, it doesn't exist.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0175par0176	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please, I'm listening to Mr. Gök. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0176par0178	In his speech, the speaker has just expressed why we are afraid, why we are afraid, by accusing our entire group of accusations, referring to the speech of our dear speaker.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0177par0179	I said you were afraid of the people. Why do you fear the people? I think he's gonna answer that. Mr. Sky, I said you were afraid of the people.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0175par0180	Here, I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0178par0183	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, three or four days before this, there was a bomb attack in Istanbul, 44 of our citizens lost their lives; a heavy terrorist attack. The blood of the dead hasn't been washed off the floor yet, and the trauma continues. We're in a state of mourning. In this situation of mourning, it is clear that Turkey must be integrated, united. We've pledged to withdraw our budget talks on the basis of any legal offer coming here from the moment of the terrorist attack. My dear friends, there are rare times when the nation needs to get together, times that affect the whole community. Isn't the point of polarizing the society that terrorism created at such a time and the terrorists desire to divide it, causing the ruling party to quickly bring the Constitutional Amendment to parliament next week? I mean, in a situation like this, when we're supposed to be in a more cold-blooded waiting situation, exactly in an environment where we all have to connect, where we all have to connect -- political positions, we all know about the Constitutional change -- why is it important to bring this polarization into the environment, my dear friends, to bring it up? Why?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0179par0186	Do what terror wants?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0178par0187	Why? So that's exactly what terror wants. Fight, fight...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0179par0188	You want us to do what terror wants us to do?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0178par0189	Fight, fight, break up. That's the view right there.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0180par0190	Don't let him do anything?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0178par0191	Look, dear friends...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0181par0192	Take a look at your own speaker's speech, see where the polarization is.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0182par0193	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0178par0194	The President has always respected and will respect us as long as we are within the constitutional limit. There's no hesitation in that.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0183par0195	You'll insult the President, then you'll talk about unity, unity.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0178par0196	But there's no insult in any of what our friend says. There are severe criticisms. That's because of the position the President himself drew. If the President pushed himself into this position, what can we do? We'll just have to criticize them. That's what our friends do. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit03spe0184par0199	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0184par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill. The commission and the government are in place. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Ağrı MP Berdan Özturk. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0185par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, when I stand up in an environment where the extraordinary is being tried to be ordinary, where the irregularity is being tried as a rule, and I try to make an opinion on Article 11 of the Budget Law, it actually adds to this extraordinaryness, it becomes a regularization. So, I'm going to share my general opinion with you on this occasion. I salute you all. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are bound by the policy of power and abuse based on the historical and social sovereignty of men. Without a doubt, they are carried out in an intertwined and complementary manner. One is the difficult politics of oppression, threats, blackmail, fear, violence, and so on, which can also be opened as conquest and plundering politics, and the resources of pragmatism and manipulism can be sought here. The second can also be called soft power politics, which means it can also refer to abuse politics as soft power politics. It refers to the way carrot-sopa policy hunts with carrots. When this method does not work, it often comes into play with the stick, the methods of curing, which are often carried out by the processes that follow each other, and are usually carried out in close proximity to each other. Endless crises, wars, and unresolved policies based on more and more chaos management are linked to them, and ultimately, they are all in denial of politics. German lawyer and political philosopher Carl Schmitt (politicist) describes these aspects of politics as being about us and them, friends and enemies. In fact, we can say much earlier that the political philosophy of capitalist modernity has become the most methodical in Hegel. It's the patterns of Hegelistic structural mentality that still stamp on the system. Mr. President, good lawmakers, according to General Clausewitz of Prussia, considered a military genius by the ruling mindset, the war is carried out by different means of politics. Here, war is viewed as the main solution platform of contradictions because politics has been reduced to lies and state diplomacy. Truth is sought in a military war rather than a war of meaning. According to Foucault, the opposite is true. Politics is the continuation of war by different means, the execution of it, and it is necessary to defend society in this regard. Foucault's views should be found under forgetfulness, dreams, and lies that lead us not to believe in nature's needs or the functional needs of order, because war is the code of peace. It constantly divides the entire social entity and puts each of us into a camp or another camp. In general, the war itself is for power, not to overcome contradictions by solving them, but to further corrupt them, and to ensure the liquidation of politics. The basis of this approach is the dilemma and the understanding that one of the parties, which is the basis of a contradiction, can be taken completely under the yoke, so that the contradiction can be removed or removed in this way, that neither historical experiences nor scientific reality can confirm that look. Because contradictions can't be removed by force, but they can be overcome by defunctioning over time. It is wrong to grasp the struggle of the opponents on the basis that the opposites destroy each other, even though it is not the same in social dilemmas, as opposed to each other. This does not mean that we should overlook the principled differences between democracy and the state. Not to destroy the anti-system, but to overcome the primitive through the struggle. This is the struggle for the state to overcome democracy. Depending on this, between democracy and the state can be construed as neither denial nor destruction, in a relationship with democracy that democracy does not aim to achieve power and statehood, but in which the state is not allowed to suppress democracy and melt it in itself. In this case, we can also say that state politics will become increasingly active in the historical process, depending on the historical prediction that the state will regress against the virtues of democracy and the power to solve problems. Here, the government's suspension perspective remains valid. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are the most fundamental social issue of capital and power monopoly politics. Rebuilding politics outside these categories is the untenable solution to social problems. We need to think of politics as a new way of making clear as a society that creates the moral dimensions of resistance against the state, without falling into the power traps that perpetuate my entourage. It's the result of this need to redefine politics as a basis for the existence of a social nature that combines the nature of democratic change, the dialectics of free development, different methods, different forms, different responsibilities and levels of participation. On the basis of the criticism of power and state, it is our duty and responsibility to conduct a new alternative policy in the light of moral and political society. So we believe that a new political relationship must be established and that the only source of this new relationship will be the nature of the moral society. It is not only a new policy, but it is the horizon of social liberation by building a new system. When we look at the contexts of function, meaning and structurality, there are relationships, contracts, partnership, plurality on the part of democracy. Here, the democratic, participant, community economy, ecological life, free women's stance and ideology, science, conscience, religion and freedom of faith for society and people, organisation of the people, democratic authority and free citizenship, and the organisation of communes, parliament, congress, academy, production and consumption units based on the value of sharing and use are the principal principles and institutions. Instead, we see intellectual slavery, such as genderism, religiousism, nationalism, positive science, mentalism, mandatory citizenship, mandatory military, mandatory military, mandatory education, legal law enforcement, which grows up against society like a monotheism, denial, privilege, privilege, and abuser understandings, by the law-based authority, by the force-based authority, by the bureaucracy and the military, the police, and other militant institutions that make society increasingly breathless. Now is the time to cry out with democratic politics, living and living the existence of a free world. I'd like to say through this, we're going to insist on democratic politics from this stand to the end. Together with our co-Chairs, deputies, co-chairs and all our elected friends, representing the will of our Gasbedilen people, we will stand to the end and fight for a freer, more democratic and peaceful country. Our hope is complete, we will win. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0186par0024	Thank you. On behalf of individuals, the first word belongs to Army MP Oktay Çakak. Here you go, Mr. Dish. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0187par0029	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on Article 11 of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill. Before I begin my words, I salute your high council and our holy nation. On December 10th, all of our security forces and our civilian brothers who were killed as a result of a vicious attack are once again known as mercy. Before we begin, I'd like to talk about Aleppo, about the human drama in Aleppo. Since recently, no doubt, a human crime has been committed in Aleppo. The city of Aleppo is a city that has hosted many civilizations in the history of the world, a city of love, a city of love, and a city that has done its duty with its beauty and its goodness. Here I come, Omer the Lover, the city of Aleppo. For many years, Emrah sought out her lover in Aleppo, when she spoke of this love. Kerem was burned, burned, and burned in Aleppo, with Aslı's love, and, again, in many places in Turkish literature, the Aleppo Beyti, the Aleppo expression was always mentioned. Today, many countries who call themselves civilized, unfortunately, when Muslims die, when genocide is inflicted on Muslims, they remain silent, silent, even. Adeta is still a crime of humanity, unfortunately. There are no doubt two criteria for these civilized countries: one, values; two, interests. When their interests conflict with values, and their interests, when they talk about those hammocks, human rights, freedoms, democracy, conflict with their interests, no doubt their interests stand out, and many people, children, women, are silent to their death. Of course, it has always been a Turkish nation in the history of the world that has prevented it, with its history, it has always been a Turkish nation who hears the suffering of the oppressed. A powerful state, a powerful Republic of Turkey, a Republic of Turkey that can defend itself, a Republic of Turkey, a Republic that produces its own weapon, builds its own tank, produces its own helicopters, no doubt in the interest of the world. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Since 3 November 2002, Turkey has shown serious breakthroughs in defence industry in this civil defence for nearly ten years. Of course, those who don't want it, and those who don't like it will always have it, because this attitude will be the hand of the oppressed, the voice of the oppressed, the power of the oppressed. The speaker who just came up here said a lot of things about our President. We understand foreign countries, we understand the enemies of Turkey; they may not want our President, they may not love him, but it is certainly not right that people sitting at this time are so hostile, so angry, that they should eat our President with these words.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0188par0037	Not at all.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0187par0038	Mr. President is elected by 67 per cent in the military province.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0188par0039	Maybe.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0187par0040	That may be. You will not say, you will respect that will, because the President is chosen by the will of this nation. Yesterday, the Constitutional Court, which our President criticised, today, you may be more critical when it doesn't work out for you. Yes, our President is on the side; our President is always on the side of his nation, on the side of the nation. (AK PARTY) And I say that we will continue with him to support them, like our Muslim brothers in Aleppo, like the oppressed in Somalia, no matter where they were today. I wish our budget would be a blessing, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0189par0044	Thank you, Mr. Dish. Second and final speaker on behalf of individuals, Batman MP Saadet Skills. Here you go, Mr. Skilly. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0190par0049	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're going through extraordinary processes. We're either ruled by a state of emergency or by a law, or we can't be ruled because we all feel the heavy burdens of being unmanageable are very serious. After the July 15 coup attempt, which was viewed as a blessing from God, it was, of course, possible and so it was. And when those opportunities were met, Turkey became inextricable, so in the State of Emergency, it actually became inextricable. The government moved quickly to bring about everything they wanted to do and anything they could never do under normal circumstances. To build the party state in accordance with its purpose... in the process, it was necessary to clean the road for the presidential system, which was designed to be built in an extraordinary state... with expanded powers. For that reason, thousands of people who stood up against this system, opposed, opposed, criticized, arrested, or expelled from their jobs with the political savings of the government, without even a forensic, administrative investigation, without any concrete and legal evidence. Of course, by the way, the arrests, the exports, they were quickly replaced, and that's what happened. Judge, prosecutor, chancellor, governor, police, the state-party integration is almost complete with such structures as their higher organisation. Unfortunately, with these developments, lawlessness has become a rule. All these antidemocratic practices are being tried to feed the community democracy, even advanced democracy. And you know what's the most dangerous thing to say in Turkey today? It's the word "peace." It's a terrible demand for peace. Anyone who wants peace, wants peace, wants the problems to be resolved peacefully and democratically, is almost declared a traitor. In the state of emergency, the government insists on ignoring the law... if you call it democracy, peace seekers are silenced, prisons are packed. Journalists, academics have been arrested, especially our fellow co-Chairs and paralegal friends of our party, HDP. Unfortunately, this process is still going on, and the process of rapid detention and arrest is progressing dramatically. It's clear from the budget that there's no fair share again, that the laborer is being pushed into a corner, that the capital is being looked after, that's obvious. I mean, there's no fair share, like there's no field. It's very possible to say that there's a budget like war and the rant budget. If you call it job security, you need to look at the work killings. It's Human Rights Week, but human rights violations are on the verge. Not only domestic law, but no citizen can, unfortunately, or even express the rights to international contracts. The sample is too much in this area. Only the raids on our county, borough organisations, violence, torture practices on executives taken into custody without discrimination, buildings that have been broken and looted, all of this is a very clear violation of rights. She has no name, no right to be an individual has been covered in this budget. During the negotiations, did you hear a single word, a single project, to improve women's status in society? We didn't hear it, to be honest. She's only imprisoned inside the family, and she's been denied even earned rights. It seems that the extraordinary state, which will last a long period of time, is suspended by decrees of the Constitution, the law that is ignored, and the rule of citizenship and the demands that are born of them, would mean that the whole of the rules that hold society together would be ignored, in fact, the most dangerous, because it would bring with it a social resolution that would never be repaired again. We always boasted that Turkey is a land of multicolored mosaics. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Unfortunately, we see that this multicolored mosaic is being distributed. It's hard to keep the falling mosaics together. It's up to us to create the ground to hold this multiculturalism together with a great responsibility. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0191par0061	Thank you, Mr. Skillful. Congressmans, this concludes the discussion on the matter. Now, we're going to do the QA. In order, I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who have entered the system to ask questions. Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0192par0066	Minister, problems with the social security system that we discussed during the 2016 budget are still pending solutions. My first question is: When will you find solutions to the problems of our citizens who are old enough to be retired and who are old enough to be employed by the employer? Second, in our current social security system, unfortunately, there is a very serious injustice to our mothers who want to retire. When mothers are insured, they can afford to owe birth, but they have no right to give birth before they're insured. When will you correct this injustice and injustice? Third, the periods of internship and vocational training are still not taken into account in the retirement calculation. What will you do to ensure that the 2017 budget does not become a disappointment to our citizens? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0193par0071	Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0194par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, that's what I asked you last year. There's always a tax pardon. Why aren't our tax-paying citizens, tradesmen and industrialists rewarded? You have your explanations. The Bonus system will be brought in. It's been a year, it's only been explained. Can't it be discounted? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0195par0075	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0196par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, Syrian refugees live in many parts of our country. The population of Mersin Mezitli is 180,000, but there are around 60,000 Syrians in the district. While Mezitli Municipality serves around 240 thousand people, the budget they received from the County Bank is given only according to the number of citizens of the Republic of Turkey living in the district. In many countries in Europe, the budgets of local governments are being calculated, even the incoming tourist averages, but not even foreigners living permanently in Turkey are included. Could it not be considered that budgets transferred from the Bank of Provinces to our municipalities should be included in the Syrian population? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0197par0079	Mr. Tekin.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0198par0080	Thank you. Mr. Minister, our city of Samsun is trapped in a 2km, 52km-long subdivision, with a population of 600,000 people, by the way. In terms of traffic, in terms of confusion, in terms of construction, in terms of modernisation, the city of Samsun needs east-west freeways immediately. The highways throw the ball to the capital city, and the highways finally say that the Ministry of Maliye did not set aside funds for publicisation and production. Four years ago, each year the same thing is entering the fifth year. In this regard, we expect your support on the investment issue. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0199par0083	Mr. Kara.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0200par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Representatives of the ruling party are persistently studying the situation in Aleppo, and they mention that Muslims were especially hurt there. What religion do the opposition groups in Aleppo and Mosul belong to today? Are we supposed to be human-focused here, or is this a cult?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0199par0086	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0201par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the government needs to take fast measures to boost our country and our economy's endurance, but political uncertainty is increasing, the rule of law and law has been pushed aside. Your power against the developments inside and in our region has left our country vulnerable and unsecured. We're facing the most serious management crisis in your administration. In this regard, how do you view the advice on the removal of the State of Emergency? What impact will the regime debate have on our economy, and on the proposed referendum in spring next year?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0199par0089	Mr. Rootsal... If you don't have Mr. Roots, Mr. Tanal, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0202par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, the Düzce City of Düzce is leaving all its garbage in Hecinler position -- the position of the Hecins is also the common area of the village -- and the citizen remains in the garbage. Of course, in the garbage, the Hecin don't want to live, our plain citizen doesn't want to live. In terms of public health and well-being -- that's the goal of the authorities and the whole state -- it's a duty to protect the well-being and health of the people -- what will you do to Hecinlers to make sure they don't spill it? The city's garbage trucks are standing in line there, standing in front of a citizen. I mean, they're practically fighting each other. It's not the right thing to do, it's not the right thing to do. It's the health and health of the citizen. Does the government have a study or not? Women stand guard in this snow during the winter, men stand watch at night, not against the enemy, but against the state. Is that possible? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0203par0094	Thank you. Now, I promise the Minister to answer the questions. Here you are, Mr. Agbal.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0204par0097	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Engin, they've touched on some issues that have been discussed from time to time in the retirement system, which are really important, but on the other hand, the social security system needs to maintain an actuary balance in a discipline. Participants on one side pay bonuses, while pensioners on the other side pay monthly payments for pensioners. The balance of this system is consolidated within the public general balance, and is funded by all our citizens. Today, the social security system is a system that gives explanations, not balances. In the 1990s, in particular, there were decisions that were not very disciplinary, while social security deficits today may be lower, are still at a certain level, but it is possible to say that the issues brought up have been discussed. Mr. Tarhan, not for a year, not for our citizens who have paid taxes on time, but for a few months, I've had explanations, and especially when the restructuring law came up in August, I brought it up on my own. I said we could work on a tax reduction in exchange for the voluntary sleep they've shown to our citizens who pay their taxes regularly, especially in terms of income and institutional taxes, who don't have any problems in all tax audits. I told him we'd bring him back with us for the New Year, that the IRS is doing some work. I will, I stand by that. It's the right request, I'll tell you that. Mr. Pineak has made a request for payment to the municipality due to our Syrian citizens. For some time, in fact, there have been very different demands regarding the shares of the income paid to municipalities. Our cities, our municipalities have different summer populations, different winter populations, same difference in tourist areas. Again, as you said, there are similar situations in your area and in other provinces. At the moment, our Ministry of Internal Affairs is doing a study that considers what new criteria can be set in the distribution of revenues, especially what you say, and we are in it. Hopefully, we'll solve these issues with a more appropriate distribution formula. Mr. Tekin, Samsun is a place we've actually been, a place we've seen. Indeed, Samsun needs to grow and develop, but I have no idea what the need for publicisation is for the expansion of the environmental pathways, meaning what you're saying.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0205par0102	I got it off the highway, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0204par0103	I mean, I don't know anything about it in private, but thank you for bringing it up. Talks are held between ministries. Wherever there is a service for all our provinces, we do the necessary work. Let me tell you that I disagree with Mr. Kara. I mean, his approach reminds me of a different approach, but I don't want to get involved in that argument. What happened in Aleppo, in Mosul, is truly a human tragedy. For all of us, for all of us who live in this geography, without a party distinction, a common concern, a common regret. So I don't think it's right for us to talk about these issues as a political polemic issue.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0206par0105	Answer the question, Mr. Secretary. What's the answer?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0204par0106	Mr. Özdemir has made an assessment of the relationship of the referendum process with the economy, particularly the state of emergency. In general, there is a vulnerability to global-level economies, especially from the last quarter of 2016. In particular, new political economic conditions created by U.S. elections included a vulnerability in developing countries that needed to be developed in developed countries. Yesterday, you know, the Fed increased interest rates by 0.25. For all countries in 2017, the year will be a year of real uncertainty, risks, challenges, as a general part of the global economy.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0207par0108	Complete, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0204par0109	In Turkey, we work at the point of taking the necessary measures as government against these global uncertainties. We share the decisions we make from time to time, we share them with the public, we make legal arrangements. Hopefully, in 2017, Turkey's economy will make a good performance in other developing countries by turning its positive factors into even more advantage, which we all have in common. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0207par0111	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The talks on Article 11 have been completed.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0208par0113	I'm sorry, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0207par0114	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0208par0115	Is Mr. Secretary going to answer in writing about the Hecinlers?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0207par0116	He'll answer in writing. Answer the remaining questions in writing, Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0208par0117	I mean, if it's possible, because there's a citizen waiting there.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0209par0118	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0207par0119	I'm turning it on to your microphone, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0209par0120	Mr. President, it's not something I know about. The mayor's probably working on it, so there's no need for me to answer in writing. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0207par0122	Thank you. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Treasure guaranteed opportunity and the loan limit of external debt and the commitment limit and the transactions related to debt MADDE 12- (1) in 2017 will be provided according to the Law on Public Finance and Order of Debt Management No. 4749 dated 28/3/2002; the limit of guaranteed property and external debt cannot exceed $4 billion. (2) A 1st article (a) can be exported to 1 percent of the initial grants specified by the first article (a). (3) Under Article 8/A of Law 4749 in 2017, a pledge to be paid by the Undersecretary of the Treasury cannot exceed $4 billion of U.S. dollars. On behalf of the groups, the first word on the matter belongs to Antalya MP Ahmet Selim Yurdakul. Your time is ten minutes. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0210par0135	Mr. President, on behalf of the National Movement Party, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the 12th Amendment of the Central Management Budget Act. First of all, I'd like to wish the Turkish nation the best of the new budget, just as we began with a blessing. A budget that affects our country's social and economic structure is being discussed, and we have obligations, such as monitoring and expressing economic problems in the Turkish nation and the business world. Let's make an assessment of what happened to our country on its way from 2002 to 2016. In 2002, growth was 6.2 per cent, dropped to 4 per cent in 2015, 3.9 per cent immediately; in 2016, unfortunately, in the third quarter, we were reduced by 1.6 per cent. If only you had given the Turkish nation a tenth of the growth rates that you had given our famous contractors, a tenth of which would have been enough and even increased. Let's continue: the production industry was 17.8 per cent of the illegitimate domestic diet in 2002, while today it dropped to 7.7 per cent. Our debt to IMF is over. You say you have the right, but why do you hide from the Turkish nation that our foreign debt, which was 129 billion dollars in 2002, rose to $421 billion in 2016? In 2002, our citizen owed $4.3 billion in loans, and today, unfortunately, our dear citizens owe 80.6 billion. Look, we need to work on these credit card loans, but we know that our citizens who paid off their debt on a credit card are not in the government's interest. Congressmans, my fellow citizens, when we look back, we can see that we have missed a tremendous opportunity for our country and our nation. Otherwise, I don't mean contractors as much as the fingers of two hands who turned this era into opportunity. They continued to put people's resources in their own pouches. We know them well, and they know exactly what political party they're labeled for. Unfortunately, we say we've lost a great era. At a time when global money supply was rising, capital continued to flow to developing countries. Investors, often using hot money and financial investment instruments, saw the front of nationalist Action Party coalition reforms, came to our country. Now, in this period, real sector investors had to be cleared. However, the AKP has put the country's economy into short-term investments and a no-win situation. To sum up, the AKP government, a propaganda empire all by itself, built bridges, viaducts and malls instead of creating ten jobs. When we meet in the village, in the village, in the country, I ask: "Isn't this viaduct beautiful?" Isn't it? You like the road to Duble? Would it be better to build this bridge that 40 people have been working on for a year, or would it be a factory where 20 people from this neighborhood would work? My uncle, who remembers he has a 36-year-old college graduate son, bows his head and says, "I wish employment had been created." Every person I ask this question answers, without exception, "instruction" because right now the unemployment rate is 11.3%; 19.9% among our young people. Well, they're right. Look, the Osman Gazi Bridge hurts the Turkish nation every day. Unfortunately, this bridge, which failed to catch the targeted vehicle crossing, has become one of the biggest stakes to the Turkish nation. Citizens are ringing your ears in Antalya's Alanya Okurcas, or in the coffeehouses of Aksu villages. Every college graduate without a job with scientific methods has begun to explain the mistakes your government has done in village coffees. In every house, we have unemployed young people, people; in every house, there's a young man who's worried about his future. Mr. Secretary, the precious MPs, I mentioned the time we lost. The AKP, unable to divide global hot funds into production and RD, is now looking at $200-300 under the pillow of a citizen. Okay, let the dollars be turned into Turkish money, but, Mr. President, Mr. AKP government officials, do the same thing you're calling the citizens to these bridgemen, black contractors. If you love your town, you'll cash it. After you say that you've got the money you've got, why don't you give it to the rich people with the loans they use from public banks? Why don't you just cash in these dollars? (Applause from MHP and CHP rows) Why don't you speak to them? Where are they? If you're quiet, we're calling from here: you turn your dollar into Turkish money, and we'll see. [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] We have another call for you. Let's put the bridge crossing fees in Turkish money, which will be valid from today on, and always use them as Turkish money. Do you know what a citizen understands when you say 'economic'? He's paying $4.5, and he knows about the diesel that those shipowners bought for $1.50. Every car driver in charge of the fuel pump remembers the AKP's economic leadership, you know. Reverend Turkish nation, I know you're paying the price for every wrong decision of the AKP government. Today, our national businessmen were unable to do business because of heavy taxes and economic policies. In our country, capital is now changing hands. Instead of our industry, which thrives on production and resources, there are contractors who took the first money they made to Switzerland. For 40 years, one of our industrialists from Anatolia, who has been producing, is shutting down his factory, unable to withstand international competition. When I asked him why, he replied: "Turn off the factory, which has sold me more electricity in my own country than the Iraqi. " According to the government, I'm not a reasonable businessman. You made me say, "Should I start building a mall?" You've taken what we call a Turkish nation out of production and made it a service worker for global capital. Since 2002, you've turned the Turkish education system upside down. In doing so, you intended to turn the Turkish nation into clerks at the malls, but you will fail. We've been discussing the education policies of the AKP government together for days. So, we say that our students in 64 countries, according to these PISA results, were able to rank 45, 37, and 41. As the National Movement Party, we stress: education, education, again is the focus you need to focus on. But with education, you can move to an economy that produces added value. Otherwise, as a country, you'll continue to skid in the middle income trap. Then you let Turkish Airlines destroy millions of dollars to improve your image of the country. Now, lastly, I just looked, Mr. Minister of Health -- he's out now, but -- they had a chat with our Finance Minister. From here, while you're both here, Mr. Secretary, I have a proposition for you. Look, we, the National Movement Party, have offered the Parliament a law. In this bill of law... our health workers are listening. If you want to succeed in health care, let's make a correction to our healthcare workers' salaries, pensions, and bonuses, and reflect on the income capital you gave them while working. Look, let's consider this bill together, and we'll discuss and correct what you don't think is appropriate, and we'll give our health workers some good news. For four years, you've told our health workers every 14th of March that it's a fair share of wear and tear, but you don't give up your share of the wear and tear. Come on, let's all take out this wear-out share. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Finally, my offer to you is to give 350,000 non-assigned medical staff a staff in 2017. So don't announce 20,000 positions in 2017. Look, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0211par0155	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul, your time is up.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0210par0156	My last words. Look, Mr. Minister of Health said: "I'm working for the aid medical staff too, and I want a staff for them." Mr. Secretary is my friend. So, what I'm offering you here is, please, let's do a staff job for our understaffed young people at these new city hospitals and living centers, just like the unassigned teachers.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0212par0158	They're already on staff.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0213par0159	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0210par0160	But, no, sir...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0213par0161	Okay, Mr. Yurdakul, why don't you go this way? I invited the other speaker to the stand. You deal here, you talk here.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0210par0162	I'd appreciate it if you'd do me a favor. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0214par0165	Okay, let's talk, but they're all staffed.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0215par0166	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Ali Şeker will now speak. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0216par0170	Mr. President, I've made a commitment to the foreign debt of the Executive Budget Bill in 2017. I salute our High Council. On December 10th, I wish our officers, our citizens, God's mercy, their sympathy, their patience, and their patience, and their patience, to our fellow citizens, who lost their lives in a treasonous attack carried out by PKK/TAK terror organization against the most basic human rights right to life. I curse terror. The six-month-old twins, Elif and Erva Τ's father, 24-year-old police officer Emre, were buried to 19-year-old medical school student Berkay (44), just like hundreds of our citizens who lost their lives in the June 7th elections when the titles of 400 acting Ya Chaos were dropped. Some politicians have turned the mourners' funerals into a blessing of death. At his last funeral, a minister told the police of the Riot Police to be martyrs. Radical terror organizations also say that you will become martyrs to young people who have been strapped to their bodies and sent to death and to kill, and you will go to heaven. Just after the Beşiktas explosion, I went to Dolmabahçe, and went to the hospitals until morning to see if I could do anything. I've seen young people who've lost their lives, wounded in pain, families looking for relatives, just like after the massacres of Merasim Street, Suruç and Ankara Station. It's a trick, guys. Our duty is to keep people alive, not to bless death. Don't try to cover up what you can't live. Dear lawmakers, when there is a Europe where our exports are 55 per cent, where the average income is $35,000 per person, your power shows the authoritarian regime Shanghai, whose average income per person remains at $8,000 per person, which we have not been able to achieve even 5 per cent of our exports as an alternative. TÜİK, in my data, has changed the method of computing data, flipped the numbers, using it as an excuse to adapt to the EU; as we became poorer, we suddenly became rich with the idea of gin. In this report, published on Monday, our country's total income in 2015 was $861 billion, not 720 billion. If four people live in a house, the family's total income is $44,000, and today's currency is supposed to be 155,000 a year. Well, in that case, shouldn't there be $13,000 a month in a house of 4 people? If you took this money, it's okay, citizens, if you didn't get it, ask about your money, where's your income and whose pockets? Dear friends, in order to understand the debt burden of the Treasury, you must not only look at the bonds it exports, but also the guarantees of the Treasury and its obligations for the years to come. The Law on Public Finance and Editing of Debt Management, which has been adopted in the commission, says the limit of guarantees and external debt cannot exceed $4 billion. According to the Development Ministry's data, as of 2015, the contract size of public-private cooperation has exceeded 115 billion dollars. Companies who take over the project in public-special cooperation projects ask the Treasury for a guarantee of demand, and the Treasury guarantees it. I have a document from the Court's General Directorate of Highways 2015 Control Report. This report says that in projects conducted with the public-special cooperation model, you did not show the amount of debt guaranteed by the Treasury in accounting accounts. You hide debts from the House and the public, you deceive the public, you cheat. According to the Court's report, the amount guaranteed in the North Marmara Highway and the Gebze-Orhangazi Highway crossing projects, including bridges, was around 57 billion liras on the end of 2015 dollar dry, making it 70 billion dollars today, friends. 13 billion liras a year on people's backs, with a difference of currency. The total cost of the Gulf crossing and its connections, the third throat bridge and the North Marmara Highway is $3 billion,456 million. The Treasury guaranteed loan to the contractors for this investment is $2 billion,738 million. The contractor makes 20 per cent of the project out of his pocket and 80 per cent out of a guaranteed state loan. So you're committed to putting 70 billion dollars in today's currency, more than 33 times that, from the future of our children, to the investor who's going to put $2 billion in his pocket for this investment. These aren't capitalizations, what are they? There's a similar looting pattern in city hospitals projects. Our parents would have avoided our children, and we would have been moved by our own children. But while you're destroying the environment that you leave to our children, destroying nature, you're also burdening them with debts that they'll be crushed under, stealing our children's economic futures. For $1 billion, you, who say yes, are even willing to send our children to their deaths, are now lending our children 10 billion in these projects alone. The debt is vouched for by the state, and its pleasure is enjoyed by the contractor, and its misery is inherited by our children. Who do these contractors have in common? Dear lawmakers say 420,000 of our citizens have joined the unemployed caravan as of September 2015. There are 3.5 million unemployed people who can't bring bread to their homes. In 2003, household debt was 13.5 billion, while at the beginning of 2016 it exceeded $441 billion. Consumption of consumer loans, mortgages, credit card debts. As you often do, what is the debt of the private sector, the citizens? It's also seen from past events that the debt, which seems to be a debt of the private sector, turns into public debt overnight. We've seen this situation in bank crises. Because in the face of economic threats, the state has to take precautions and take up those debts. My dear friends, because of the ten cents on the dollar in the Trip Rebellion, you called it the facsimile lobby, the apocalypse. During the period of the State of Emergency, the currency increased 52 cents and reached $3.54. This currency difference suddenly put $220 billion more on the back of debtors because of our country's $421 billion in foreign debt. In the State of Emergency, there's no sound from any of you. Turkey faces a real balance crisis of payments due to its debts. In order for our country to translate these debts, we need the rule of law, respect of property, and a financial system that operates according to universal law, not authoritarianism, but more democracy. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, your mind is so confused that in the text of the Constitutional proposal you've prepared, at the beginning of the same sentence, you say the election of the presidency at the end, the presidential election at the end. We know that even though its name is president, you want a system that will not be accountable to you, and you want to appoint them one day to judge you, just like the leader of the coup on September 12th, like the fascist army coup, Kenan Universe and his friends. Dear friends, we doctors, after complaints, findings, tests, we can diagnose, and if we can't diagnose correctly, of course we can't succeed in treatment. Political scientists have studied the problems of politics, their diseases. The academics who studied the fascist Hitler, Mussolini, Franco and Pinoshe regimes have identified the common characteristics of fascism: the paralyzing of the state's control mechanisms, the raising of racism, the regularization of human rights violations, polarization of society, the protection of supporters, the religious use of public resources, the religious use of power, the suppression of violence and sexism, the suppression of the media by power, the spread of fear, the use of labour, the use of extraordinary powers, the use of the academy, the artist, and the art. This text you see in my hand is from the 14th Class of Fascism for starters. I'm speaking as an experienced physician. These features are becoming more and more accurate in what we've experienced in our country in recent years. Timothy Snyder, another scientist, says in his article entitled "How Should Fascism Come? " In fascism, we testify that lies are organized socially. We see that some of the people accept it and are not interested in the truth. The lies, contradictions, inconsistencies, and nonsense that the Almighty tells to society don't matter. That's why we say there's no way to fascism! There's no passage to fascism! There's no passage to fascism!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0217par0192	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0218par0193	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0217par0194	For $1 billion, you sent our children to their deaths... he said something like that.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0219par0195	He lied, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0217par0196	We don't accept that. This is a great disrespect to the state of the Republic of Turkey, first of all, because the ancient state is not a state at any time dedicated to these things. We reject them. Another, this fascism is more violent than anyone else, and we reject it. He talks about racism in this country, polarization, rigged choices, thallan... he's probably living in some other country.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0220par0198	You're living in a fantasy world.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0217par0199	Can a country with those numbers remain in power in a country where the main opposition is the alternative to power? People change it in the first crate.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0221par0200	The Kenan Universe also received 92 per cent of the vote.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0217par0201	So these allegations and statements don't reflect the truth that people are walking in power.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0222par0202	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0223par0203	Hitler came by choice, and so did the Kenan universe.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0224par0204	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0222par0205	Mr. Sky, I'm opening the system. Pick it up in a minute, please.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0224par0209	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in addition to calling for the end of this conflict in Aleppo, which has led to the deaths of many innocent people and the transfer of civilians to protected, secure areas, the Republican People's Party is in a bit of a hurry to carry out our humanitarian mission by fully supporting the Aleppo campaign, which was opened by the girl, led by President Kemal Kildaroglu. We thought it appropriate to share it with the public. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0225par0212	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the groups, the third and last words belong to Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0226par0221	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the 12th Amendment. I'm going to make an assessment of Aleppo, but first, of course, when they hear that we're going to take this stand, especially those with economic victims are calling, and they want their troubles expressed. The bureaucratic process of postponing agricultural loans, agricultural loans in most districts, including the district of Akyaka, has probably not been completed but has been declared publicly, so the expectation has been raised rightly. Since there is no concrete arrangement for the postponement, the locals are still suffering. Let me at least share the message of those who have expressed their expectations about this. Dear friends, states fight, civil citizens pay, people pay, states make peace, civil people pay the price. Unfortunately, there has been a war of states in Syria for five years, but if thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of thousands of people, some displaced, some paid the price for their lives -- children, women's lives -- then the settlement is now paid. Dear lawmakers experienced a very similar process in Iraq 25 years ago. For the past two years, we remind them that Turkmen lived on these platforms in Iraq, and we say: At that time the Turkmen were organized and supported by Turkey, but then Turkey's political stance changed, the Turkmen were left in the middle; since Turkish-backed leaders of Turkey remained in their position -- naturally -- because they continued to defend themselves -- because the relationship between Turkey and the Iraqi regime, the relationship between Saddam, with Turkey's change of power in Turkey, paid the price. Now, there is no change in power in Turkey, but there is a change in Syrian policy. Therefore, I think they have to pay the most severely now, more now, in Syria, in Sunni, and in Turkey. Dear lawmakers, a few weeks ago, we did not know what the contents of the requests from Russia, especially about Aleppo, were, unfortunately, but we can guess from what happened. Since there are no real conditions left to support groups such as Nusra, Ahra, Damascus, as well as other opposition groups -- which are no longer possible to take down Assad (Assad) -- the price is paid by the civil society, by the people, by the children, but if it is fulfilled by this commitment, then we will allow you to withdraw from there, but in return, do not give you a chance to make certain demands about Kurds in Rojava, Kobani. Dear lawmakers, governments sometimes do an account in situations like this, and what does it bring, and what does it take? You know, in the past few decades, Russia has fought a fierce battle against Chechnya, massacres have occurred. All those who resisted there were terrorists, even those who had held meetings in Istanbul were assassinated. The assassination of Medet Celebrity, who was concerned about this matter, has yet to be illuminated. But when interstate relations change, it's a pity that those who are comfortable with some work at that time are paying the price. But now, when you look at the relationship between Russia and Chechnya, you see that if complete liquidation is not possible, if the Chechen people have a fight, if there's a struggle, it's not in the Russian interest to bury Russian soldiers in Chechnya land, it's in the interest of looking for a compromise in some way, it's looking for a solution. This is the nature of the state's mind, and what's in the best interest of mankind is to display it. Look, Bush was also fighting terrorism, and Obama, of course, is fighting terrorism. The history of the Bush era, the American history of Guantanamo, Abu Ghraib, but at least during the Obama period -- of course, there are a lot of human rights violations that we don't know about, but there are no such major dramas, no major shames. Dear MPs, unfortunately in Syrian policy, the Kurdish problem once again has taken Turkish foreign policy as hostage. So just because the Kurds have a regional event in Syria, because it doesn't have power, the complex it creates in Turkey, unfortunately the syndrome is hurting Turkey, and it's threatening the people within Turkey, and it's actually getting to a point in Syria, such as the threat to Turkey's peace. Dear MPs, of course, the community is asking another question. Some may not like to make this comparison, but I never find it right to make polemics over a human drama, but if there are people there who have been from their homes, if they are so natural, if they are so vital, if they are so human, people who have been victimized in Sur Their claims are different, of course, in every country's circumstances, in every society's situation, but if anyone is following Syrian news sites, they can make a very clear comparison. When you look at Syrian broadcast organs and the broadcast organs of pro-Serraian regimes, in fact, only terrorism has been fought in Syria for five years, no civilians have been targeted, no civilians have ever been targeted, there is a struggle going on until the last terrorist terrorist group who opposes the Syrian regime is killed. Of course, it's impossible to accept it, it's not right to be approved, it's not normal to see it, but if you're presenting a method discussion, a principle discussion, you have to do it in a consistent way for everywhere. Whatever China has done to the Uyghurs in East Turkistan, whatever attitude you are taking against Israel against Palestine, you must act in the same manner for Syria or for other countries, and, of course, with the same attitude for your country. In the event that this attitude becomes an inconsistencies, not only do the people lose, but the political authorities lose, too, dear friends. Look, three very simple cases, since they've been on the agenda lately. One is the claim that Russia has brought up in the United Nations, but now it may not be very updated, but we've all heard a lot about the oil trade a year ago. Trucks, trucks being hit by Russia, the processes against Turkey that are involved in these trucks in the United Nations. I've turned on the parentheses so much, I'm hanging up. Second, the case of Reza Zarrab in the United States. You all know that the details of this case are directly related to the financing of terrorism. I'm using some banks in Turkey to quote the phrase in Syria because I'm in favor of using terrorism, terrorism in the same measure as anywhere around the world, and I'm in favor of using it in quotes because governments consider everything to be a terror very easily. And the American courts in Syria -- I don't know who Reza Zarrab has supported, who he's sending money to -- I don't know what he's done to, but I don't know what he's done to -- they consider it part of the financing of terrorism, and they're trying to get some of the banks in Turkey to participate in this case by supporting terrorism. Dear lawmakers, this painting, this photograph, and finally, a parentheses, I'll tell you about the weapons found in Telafer. There is a very special organization in England about the origin of the weapons captured by ISIS. He issued a very concrete report that weapons shipments were made via Turkey. That's the bet, maybe he did it to mislead the public, but I'm just passing it along. One of the most respected authorities in the world said: "This is the origin of these weapons, the way they're built -- there are handmade, there are different forms -- many of them have been provided from here. Yes, Turkey has improved its legislation, especially about the use of fertilizer, but Turkey has its share, he says. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please don't take our words for granted. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0227par0237	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0228par0238	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0227par0239	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0229par0240	Why don't you tell us about the U.S. shipments, why is the shipments of Turkey so important? Why can't you talk about U.S. shipments? Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0227par0241	Congressmans, I promised Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0230par0244	Mr. President, there was a similar comparison in the morning's talks, and the answers we gave at the time are in the record. All state resources in Turkey were mobilized for our citizens there after terror had been wiped out. There, our citizens, who had to leave, came to their relatives in the West, where they didn't go anywhere else. The relief campaigns, the valuable MPs -- the government's relevant institutions -- are present here, where both local governments and citizens, our citizens, are present at the point of meeting their needs because of terrorism. Look, against his own country, there's a report here, something like this came up here, that's a bet. Why don't you just say one thing while the weapons from the terrorist organization, NYD, come to the PKK and get bored with our soldier?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0227par0247	Thank you. Now, the first word for the individuals is from Şanlıurfa MP Halil Özcan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Ozcan, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0231par0255	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the 12th article of the 2017 Central Management Budget Act. I salute your high council. First of all, I strongly condemn the treacherous terrorist attacks on our security forces and citizens in Istanbul, and ask for mercy from God to our martyrs, and immediate healing for our wounded brothers and sisters. The 2017 budget is the 15th budget drafted by the EC PARTI governments, and as was the case in 14 years before, it is a budget that increases the well-being of our citizens, provides the services they need, and allocates funds to public services, not interest. Due to the intensity of the agenda, I will try to draw attention to the massacre in Aleppo, under siege and the blockade instead of the budget. In Islamic geography, especially in Aleppo, our sisters and Muslim brothers and sisters are brutally murdered in Islamic civilization, which died and was destroyed. In both 2014 and this year's speech at the United Nations General Assembly, Mr. President has criticised the structure of the United Nations Security Council, which remains silent over the crimes committed in Syria and Aleppo, saying, "The world is bigger than 5 and you cannot condemn the world between the two lips of five countries." The United States and all European countries who rose up after the DEA attacked Kobani remain silent in the face of the destruction of Aleppo, the world's oldest and oldest city, the killer, Beşar Esed, and its supporters. Yesterday, the regime forces broke the ceasefire and tried to attack civilians again, not hours after a ceasefire reached between oppositions to the eastern part of Aleppo, and Russian-led regime forces. Last night at midnight, a ceasefire was restored between Turkish and Russian officials, and the agreement reached today morning hours to evacuate civilians and wounded. However, four citizens were killed and the convoy was forced to return after 7,000 Shia militiamen under Iranian General Seyyed Javad opened fire on the convoy carrying wounded. Today Aleppo is on fire, a civilization is being destroyed in Aleppo. People die, humanity dies all over the world. The massacre in Aleppo is living in its most brutal and brutal days. Muslim women and children are being kidnapped and raped. Aleppo Muslims trapped in a six-mile radius and not allowed to evacuate are being burned alive in the streets. In addition to information that hundreds of women have been raped in the last two days, few Muslim women who have been able to contact the world say they are waiting for a suicide fetish to avoid being raped. In his speech yesterday, Mr. President, who has not remained silent, he told the world that Turkey, the hope of the oppressed, would not abandon the people of Aleppo, and that we would do our best to save a single innocent life at all costs. We are prepared to provide humanitarian assistance to our surviving brothers in Aleppo, both within Turkey and in the northern part of Syria, to provide humanitarian and medical assistance. We welcome more than 3 million people from Syria, Iraq and other countries within the framework of our conscience-oriented foreign policy. We bring the problems of the wronged and the oppressed to the international agenda. As head of the state of the Republic of Turkey, Mr. President has declared a national mobilisation against PKK, DEAŞ, ا, DHKP-C and all terrorist organizations. And we will continue to deal with these terrorist organizations, which are a risk and a threat to our national security, simultaneously, and then we will continue to do so. Disarming these terrorist organizations is our primary priority. On this occasion, on July 15th, I strongly condemn the low coup attempt against national will and democracy, which has been blocked by the epic resistance of our nation, and I pray for the mercy of God to our martyrs and to our veterans. As in all of our country, I give greetings and greetings to all my dear citizens from the Veterans Assembly, who have joined the Order of the Order and our organizations and NGOs today.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0232par0269	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0231par0270	I thank all those who have worked to prepare the budget, and wish good luck to our country and our nation, and salute your great delegation.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0233par0272	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0232par0273	Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0233par0274	He used the statement of the president's declaration of national mobilisation against terrorist organisations. That's a very wrong expression. We have the Expeditionary Law 2941. The declaration of mobilization happens in legitimate interstate wars. The campaign against terrorist organizations means to officially recognize him, which is legally impossible. Something called mobilization against terrorist organizations...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0232par0275	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0233par0276	It's state-of-the-art. You shouldn't use that concept in the wrong place. It's not the right concept, dear friends. I just wanted to let you know.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0232par0277	People know what you mean, Mr. Tanal. Thank you. On behalf of his subjects, the second and last speaker is Heromarash MP Fahrettin Oğuz Tor. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0234par0282	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on Article 12 of the 2017 Budget Law Bill. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, this year the budget envisions $7 billion,205m in funding for mission losses. $2 billion 958 million of this amount is earmarked for KCE mission damage. The total amount of funding for investment spending is 77.5 billion dollars, with a budget deficit of $46.8 billion. Clearly, when we write down problems such as mission losses, budget deficits, 11.3% unemployment, such as cancer, we need to be very thorough when using resources. Especially throwing public resources around means the future of our unemployed, our children, our grandchildren. Of course, terrorism is our first issue. Either way, it's a quick termination by taking every precaution. In this struggle, you have to be sincere, you have to reassure the citizens. The citizen has not forgotten the Habur scandal. He also remembered that cities were built into terrors under the name of the solution process, followed by hundreds of innocent people who were martyrs. Turkey is clearing its way. The man called a baby killer showed us the future. (Ecalan contributed to the democratisation of Turkey.) If I were them, I'd go to the mountain. They call me Serok Ahmet. Like I can't count here, he hasn't forgotten a lot of unpredictable, political interests expectant, terrorism, terrorist pampering statements. Terror is causing major economic losses as well as undermining international confidence in our country. There's no economic development until we solve terrorism. Thus, mobilisation of terrorism is extremely important in terms of reaching the point that the DP has said over the years. Today, Turkey must declare economic mobilisation due to its economic situation, as well as economic mobilisation should start economic mobilisation from spending. Today, Turkey has no money to waste. Serious measures concerning corruption must be taken, and it must not be looked at as my man, nor ignored. Look, I'd like to bring to your attention a recent incident: South Korean President Mrs. Park, as a result of the corruption charges against her, has been suspended by a vote in Parliament with a vote of 234 votes, and all powers have been handed over to the Prime Minister. The main reason for corruption charges against the President is that his close adviser, who has no official job, is to trade influence and raise around $70m from companies such as Samsung, LG, to the foundations that belong to him. So far, even though there is no direct or indirect evidence that the President of South Korea, Mrs. Park, has made a direct or indirect claim to benefit from these collections, the people of South Korea have reacted strongly to the allegations of corruption. Demonstrations that have been going on for nearly two months, possibly two million people, show the sensitivity of the people of South Korea in the matter of corruption and rule of law, while President Park apologises to his people for the national chaos caused by it, promising to help the judicial process. Mr. Secretary, I pray that we also have this understanding. Dear lawmakers, since this is the case, our country's national income of South Korea, which has been categorized from our country in terms of climate, geographical position, subterranean and above-ground wealth, increased to $70,000 in 2015. What did we do? In 1954, when we had $24 -- or more than 3 times the income of Korea -- we are arguing today for $9,000 or $10,000? Turkish human beings are not less sensitive to corruption, theft, honest governance, transparent governance than South Korean people. Let's not deceive ourselves, I respectfully salute the General Assembly if we continue to ignore the allegations of corruption, to benefit the waste, to benefit the allies, not to discriminate, not to give the job to the people, not to rule it out with justice.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0235par0289	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0236par0290	Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0235par0291	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0236par0292	Mr. President, according to 60...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0235par0293	Here, I promise you for a minute according to 60.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0236par0296	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. President, we know very well what the AKP Group has just said in its speech, specifically regarding mobilization, is a problem for the law and the Constitution. However, the announcements made from the official vehicle of Skopjedar Municipality at an Aleppo rally in Istanbul yesterday following the call for this mobilisation and after the Aleppo calls were made, especially as soon as possible, the Islamist union must be restored and we must select our caliph. The announcements were often made. Now, if there is a part of the country that wants Islam, as if some of it is anti-Islamic, a perception management through social camping is very dangerous, but if it isn't, it's particularly dangerous, because some of the proposal for the Constitutional package to come to the Commission next week is expressed by some as the president of the party. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0237par0301	Finish your sentences, please.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0236par0302	Thank you. We evaluate what it refers to, not through the namings, but through the social perception and public declarations that have been directed, which is either the party president or the presidential system, but look, in the repeated announcement of a AKP-based municipality's official vehicle, we need to choose our position in a way that may be much further, perhaps even disturbing to the President. I want to say that this is very dangerous. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0238par0305	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0239par0306	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0238par0307	Mr. Mush, I promise you for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0239par0310	Mr. President, the amendment to the Constitution has been shared with the press, the public. What he brings, what he takes, what arrangements he makes, what powers will be in the House, what will happen in the administration is a well-prepared text. Here, it is very clear what it will be, how the election will be, how time it will go to an election, what powers it will use, what powers it will have at the point of law from Parliament, and what powers Parliament will have according to the separation of powers. Its name is written, its powers are set; it is written what the Constitution will do. On top of that, they've done different namings, descriptions, and here's what they've done here. This is going somewhere else. There's no need to make sense of it or say it. The text is already in the middle; what it says, what its name is, is clearly expressed.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0238par0311	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0240par0312	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0238par0313	Yeah...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0240par0314	Now, for the record, I'm not at all offended by the fact that Mr. Vice President, no matter what we're talking about, he's taking words and expressing things in a way that I don't mind. However, in a criticism of the president, the government or a local government, no exceptions, anyone who speaks -- I've been paying attention since this morning -- he wants to talk to the president about everything. I would have expected, Mr. Deputy Group President, yes, this municipality is at our party. Let's ask, let's ask, what's... we didn't ask you about the package of the Constitution, which was made out of your municipality's vehicle. I'd expect, Mr. Vice President of the group to ask and inform the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0238par0315	Thank you. Mr. Yıldırım, just as we promise you, we promise our friends, especially the vice president of the group in other groups.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0241par0316	Mr. President, here comes a statement: here, a system is being set up. There's a package coming. Here, such an announcement has been made. There is no question of what is actually written, not how it is directed, but what it means through social perceptions; it is impossible for us to remain insensitive to it, not to respond to it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0238par0317	Thank you, Mr. Mush. I'll do the QA in ten minutes. Half the time is a question and half the time is an answer. Yeah, I promise you one thing at a time. Mr. Akkaya, please.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0242par0325	I'm asking about subcontractors: subcontractors have been fooled since 2014. There was going to be a study on this, a major job-helping distinction. Is there a major job-helping distinction? Will your understanding of voting pre-election subcontractors continue at this time? After a possible referendum, we'll recruit subcontractors. Is the deception going to happen again?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0238par0326	Mr. Ahrazoglu... no. Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0243par0328	Mr. President, thank you. Some Syrians who live in our country open their own businesses to provide for themselves naturally. There are a lot of businesses, but only a few of them have work permits. They are all provided with services required by the municipality, but they are not contributing to municipalities because they are not legally registered. When the municipalities ask Turkish citizens for the necessary legal obligations, they pressure them to conduct central-government units. Is there a solution to the registration of the Syrians who run off-the-books businesses? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0244par0331	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0245par0332	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister of Finance: I just gave him a list. I'm sure you'll make the best of that list, but I want to make the following findings here: tens of thousands of people have been expelled under this law. Only 2,077 of them were members of KESK and 143 were members of the BES, which is the BERO EMERGENCY Union, 98, the IRS employee, 39 of whom were executives in Ankara, who had just arrived at the Parliament. Let us be judged fairly. We were only thrown out because we were opposed, we were thrown out for a food boycott, we were thrown out for resisting certain practices... you can appreciate that the police who prepared these proceedings are in there right now. These friends are waiting for no victim and a fair trial, waiting to get back to work as soon as possible. I expect you to do something about it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0244par0334	Mr. Tarhan, instead of Mr. Purchu... Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0246par0336	Thank you, Mr. President. Serious questions are coming in about the subcontractor's law, and there are pressures from citizens. There must be some serious work to be done on this matter. If there's a clear answer to this, I want it. We also have many brothers and sisters working within the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and they have serious victims. Both our brothers and sisters who work in subcontractors and our brothers and sisters who work in the technical services class -- working in the congregation -- have serious problems, and the 4/CCH people have serious problems. It's the duty of both the Court and the government. We want to know whether serious work will be done on this matter to the members of Parliament and to our brothers who work in all other parts of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0247par0339	Thank you. Yes, I promise the Minister to answer the questions.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0248par0341	Fifteen seconds, Mr. President, a friend of ours would have taken it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0249par0342	There's more, Mayor. When it's my turn, you cut. Look, there's still time.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0247par0343	I'm not cutting, time's up. Mr. Tanal, if he stays, I'll get back to you in time. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0250par0345	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Akkaya has already asked and assessed the work conducted by our government on staff working for subcontractors in public. So far, as a government, we've been followers of everything we've expressed and promised in the elections and the government programs, and we've done it. We, as the Ministry of Finance, work for our friends who work for the subcontractor. A law study must be carried out so that a transitional arrangement can be made. As the Ministry on this issue, we conducted work with other concerned ministries, particularly the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. We've collected information from the Ministry of Health, universities, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and other public institutions that employ subcontractors again. We've had additional work to do the description of the personnel subject to the transition arrangement because there are different types of contracts in institutions, there are different provisions in contracts. Thus, we gathered this information from institutions to ensure that the arrangement we had made could be implemented. Again, a specific transition must have a start date. We've collected additional information from the institutions, which is based on the setting of this date. What institutions should be involved in this study as well as institutional coverage? We've compiled information from administrations, not only on central management budgets, but on a larger scale, and we've taken a really comprehensive work, at least the kitchen or technical work to a certain stage. Based on this, we shared a draft of a law with our institutions. Once we've reached a certain point of view from our institutions, we'll review it again at the Council of Ministers. Hopefully, when this study is put into practice, it will end at a point that serves its original purpose. That's why there's never been any different political understanding here. There are issues that we have expressed in the June 7th elections, both in the November 1st election. We're continuing our work on these issues. Mr. Pineak told our Syrian citizens about some of the problems that have been going on in different provinces and facing employees. Of course, you appreciate some of the challenges that come from the practice, and we all know that. But, especially as the IRS, we do the necessary work on off-the-books businesses. Whoever's here has to be done in accordance with the rules, in a recorded manner. If he needs any sort of arrangement on this issue, he needs to work with them to increase the registration. Mr. Lightning, they just gave me a list, right? We've been telling you from the start, there are rules on how to identify personnel who have been suspended, who have been discharged, and what elements have been thrown out of them. As the ministry, we are doing meticulous work, compiling information from relevant institutions, and on the basis of that information, we are saving this. But if there is a flaw in the list that you and I have given us, if there is a flaw, if there is one thing that can be corrected, we are meticulously conducting these works, not just for those on this list, but for all of our friends; we are in those savings based on a certain document, based on a certain knowledge. Mr. Purçu asked me the same question as the earlier question about the subcontractors, so I don't want to give him any further explanation. But I can clearly say that these studies are almost over at the technical level. And the reason why it's taking so long is because there are very different kinds of contracts in very different public institutions, and these contracts on the Public Contraction Board are being examined one thing at a time, and I have to say it's a fundamental factor. Of course, I think the assessments of the members of parliament should be part of the work. Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0251par0353	Thank you. Mr. Tanal, you've requested it, if you could ask your question very briefly. Here, I'll open it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0252par0356	Thank you, Mr. President. The only question is, how much is our external debt in 2002, how much is our external debt today? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0253par0359	Mr. Secretary, will you answer now or in writing? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0254par0361	I'll answer that in writing.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0253par0362	Okay, thank you. Yes, I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Other provisions concerning income and expenses ADADDE 13- (1) loans for the first article (f) of Article 51 (f) and Article 3/7/2005 of Article 5393 of City Code 5393 (f) under the terms of Article 5393 (f) the state private administrations and municipalities' advanced technology and large-size infrastructure investments, under the proposal of the Ministry of Development, are under the limit of Article 5393 and Article 5393 of the First Amendment (d) under the first article of the First Amendment (d). However, loans to finance projects supported by private administrations, municipalities, and companies with which they have more than 50 per cent of their capital are not required by the Council of Provinces Bank Anonim Corporation to meet the debt limit of the loans, directly from multilateral investment and development banks, or through loans made directly through the County Bank Anonim Corporation and under SDUAP. (2) Turkey's Export Credit Bank is allowed to take political risks, as well as the Bank's collection under political risk, as well as all of its outstanding reserve statements, which correspond to the Bank's operating profits, and some of its outstanding benchmarks. The Minister of the Treasury Undersecretary is responsible for these transactions; he is the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Finance, who is responsible for registering private transactions in the State accounts of the Treasury under the recommendation of the Undersecretary of Treasury, and on the one hand comes the budget that corresponds to these transactions, and on the other hand, he is the Minister of Finance to save funds for the relevant budget of the Undersecretary of Treasury. (3) The institutional revenues specified in the legislation of the Law No. 5018 and the general budget of those covered before 2006 are collected as general budget revenues. (4) All revenues from the age of the operating rights of resources and facilities are recorded in the general budget as part of the Law on Electric Production, Transport, Distribution and Trade of Institutions outside Turkey's Electricity Agency No. 4/12/1984. The first word for the groups on the matter belongs to Mersin MP Baki Simsek, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0255par0372	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 13 of the 2017 Central Management Budget Act. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear MPs, the Turkish nation is a great nation. Turkish states have established the largest states in the world and history at certain times. From the Hun Empire to the Skyturks, from Seljuk to the Ottoman Empire, the Turks ruled the Jihan. Turkey today will be the heir to Turkish history, the founder of the next Turkish union. This great nation has survived countless disasters, and has seen 270 wars in its last 500 years. In that sense, the nation, the nation, which we have given 44 martyrs in the wake of the explosion of a bomb by treason and whoredom, will surely overcome the scourge of the foreign forces, the traitor, the traitor, the traitor, and the flagless PKK, who turned the country into a pool of blood, and the people who attacked the nation on the night of July 15th. But it must not be forgotten that compromise is a sacrifice and is given only to friends, not to terror. In the past, knowing or not, the current war on terrorism must continue to compensate for the concessions given to terrorist organizations. In the field, the PKK sympathizers must be punished in public while fighting the terrorist organisation. After the Istanbul explosion, let's get on with it! There is no harm if it has been done to the swift. Those who say, "There must be the harshest punishment, because the patience of the Turkish nation is over, and there is no more tears in the eyes of their mothers. Dear lawmakers, there is a human drama going on in Aleppo, where we all follow closely, and it's almost a massacre. Unfortunately, Aleppo is a place where old people and children are shot and women are raped. Mother, is there food in heaven? Let's die, we'll be full. It's what he calls it. It's where men decide to kill their wives so they don't have to rape their wives. In short, Aleppo is a place where surrender is not enough for a living; we are small, we are afraid, we cover our ears, but do not close your eyes. It is the place where children live. Shame on whoever's looking at the Aleppo massacre according to his ethnicity, according to his identity, according to his sect. It is the children that are slain in Aleppo, and the women that are slain, and the men that are slain. We, the National Movement Party, in any place in the world where an attack on an underdog, if a massacre is committed, we curse them all. That's why the precious MPs, Aleppo, are on fire, humanity is dying. We're reaching out for help, but let's make our voices stronger, let's all make our voices loud, and let's put an end to the fire in Aleppo. Dear lawmakers, of course, we will make certain assessments of the Ministry of Finance. However, every government member, every Minister, was like this in 2002, in 2016. Greetings, respect and respect. It's wrong to compare 1990 to 1990 to 2000 to 2015, just as we can't compare 1970 to 1980 to 1990. Didn't you bring an iPhone 6 to Turkey in 2002? It's a matter of time before the events take place. In 2002 we used the world's most expensive gasoline, which is $5 a gallon per gallon in Turkey. In 2002, oil was watching at $120-130, today the barrel of raw oil is $50, but Turkey is still using the world's most expensive fuel. Today we support our peasants, our farmers, our villages have risen. When you came to power in 2002, there were 24 million people living in villages. The number of people living in the village today has left the villages of 17 million, about 7 million people. Agriculture is being supported. At the moment, there will be diesel support and fertilizer support. The farmer is looking forward to it. Only those who produce support should be given. I went to the district of Özalp last year as a guest of a friend. I was a guest in a village coffee shop there. Most of the land in Uzalp is empty, not planted. I asked the villagers what you do, what you eat and what you drink here, and there's not much animalism in the village. They said: "When the end of the month comes, we go to the Bank of Agriculture, put it in the ATM, see what the government has given us. We take what he gives, and we eat it. They say. Unfortunately, if, like the support in the past today, fuel and fertilizer support for agriculture is given only by everyone's deed, these people will continue to become lazy and not produce. For him, the farmer who produces it should be supported; the man who produces it, the animal maker who produces it. I expect you to give the Agricultural Minister the necessary warnings and especially to the farmer who planted diesel support and fertilizer support. The land that was planted on this side in Turkey in 2002 has decreased by 3 million square kilometers. Again, about our villages... of course, I also visited Mr. Minister's hometown, and visited Bayburtt's villages. Unfortunately, Bayburt is also migrating. The villages of Bayburtt are now more than fifty and sixty years behind civilized countries; land-based houses, people living in very difficult conditions; like the people of Mersin, Pozant, Adana, and Ulukish. Another problem with Mersin is that many of Turkey's major factories -- many of the largest factories in Turkey -- are located in Mersin; hundreds of facilities, such as Bostukamam, nitrogen, glass industry, are several refinerys owned by ATAS. However, the IRS of all these firms is İstanbul Minister. I've told you this before. Mersinite draws the dust of these facilities, the soil, the mud, the air pollution, but Istanbul takes advantage of its blessings. Likewise, the tax office of several companies operating in Mersin, the construction company, the construction company, the grocery company -- Cizre, Silopi, Hakkari, Şırnak. You know why this is happening. I brought it up last year. These people trade in Mersin to avoid tax evasion, to avoid control, to show their tax offices in the east, southeast, other parts of Turkey. And I expect you to take the necessary precautions about that. I asked you during the QA, the national income in Turkey has not really increased. So don't let anyone look us in the eye and lie to us. With such an increase in dollars, with so much recession in the economy, no one in Turkey can tell us that national income is up to $11,000. If there's $11,000 in revenues, where are they now? Within two months you changed the account, you changed the book, you went out, you lied to this nation's eyes, and the national income went up to $11,000. Where's the money, I'm asking you, if it's up to $11,000. Again, as well, I expect the necessary measures for the illegal diesel to be taken. You promised cheap housing before the election, we're going to build 1+1 housing. You said. In fact, you said we'd pay our people who don't have money without social assistance, but I've never seen a 1+1 dwelling given in my constituency. I don't see any work on that either. Power outages are killing people. As of today -- you can go in and look on the page of TEDAŞ -- for two days, electricity has been cut in the village of Mersin, the Mediterranean, Anamur, Bozyazı, Erdemli, Tarsus, Mut Kemenli. And the Toros are out of power. It ends in 2016 -- a civilized country, a developing country, a developing country, there is no shortage of electricity in a developing country, Mr. Minister, and we expect you to take the necessary measures. As of September, unemployment increased by 420,000 to 11.3 per cent in the same period last year. This is the official figures of the state, but all of these numbers are wrong numbers. The real unemployment is not less than 20 per cent, because in agriculture, in the village, in rural areas, most of the people do not have applications in İSKUR, or anywhere else, they do not appear in your records. The economy's getting tight all the time. Again, another problem occurred in Turkey, especially in my constituency, Mersin. 300,000 Syrians live, people, women are bought and sold as a meta. Children's brides, women married to dowry, are shameful to mankind in the 21st century. They ask Ingmar Bergman, what is the salvation of the world? Bergman says: "Shame; if everyone is ashamed of what he has done, this world will be saved. " With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0256par0388	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. The second word on behalf of the groups is for the Republican People's Party Group, under the name of Muğla MP Nurettin Demir. Here you go, Mr. Iron.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0257par0392	Mr. President, I salute you with love and respect. I curse the inhuman massacres of Aleppo, for my own sake and for my party. We're coming to the end of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill. We will complete our new budget with your contribution and ours and hand it over to the government. We'll see how much ointment this budget brings to our people, how much hope it brings, what it brings to our people. As a public defender, I'm concerned about this budget. It's not a budget that destroys unemployment, it's a budget of waste, which makes our citizens even more bored. It's a tight budget that'll make us tighten our belts. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on behalf of my Republican People's Party Group over other expenditures on budget revenues and expenses. After special administration, local governments, urban municipal laws, authority and administration are in full black order. There are many problems in these laws, such as authorization, financial problems. Unfortunately, there is total chaos. The government and Turkey's Grand National Assembly must take immediate measures to eliminate this turmoil, especially to address the economic problems of the municipal municipalities. The necessary legal arrangements and regulations must be issued. There are many examples of that. I'd like to share one of these with you. Dear lawmakers, I think it's particularly close to the city's MPs. When a citizen wants to water his field in the countryside, or the canal, when he has a watering problem, he goes to State Waterworks, and he says: "Go to the Great City." When you go to the Great City, sir, it's not our duty, it's not ours. Take care of yourself. They say, "It's a pity that both the villagers and the farmers are a victim. " I also have something to say about the chiefs. In their daily lives, especially 24/7, they serve the people, the elderly, the young ones, they go into the city, but they can't afford it because they invest more than one-third of it into BUG-KUR, social security, and the other part of it gives electricity, water money, or transportation money to the city every day on the way to the city. But unfortunately, it's not enough money. And when it wasn't, of course, when we, the politicians, the bureaucrats, went there, and came to the point of hospitality, you took out the city law, and you removed the coops, and the stables. No more chicken, no more eggs. How will we welcome you? Dear citizens, this incident, you know, will remain a major medal, especially on the neck of the ruling party, because they collaborated with them, Ergenekon, they didn't say the sledgehammer, and they broke the back of the Turkish Armed Forces in particular, and then led to the July 15 coup attempt by feeding them from the start. So, what happened? After that, they created, in particular, thousands of victims, hundreds of thousands of victims. Dear MPs, especially you are faced with these dramas, many phone calls, letters, e-mails, what are we going to do, starve? Yesterday, in my district, there was a drama at Mughla Seydikemer Prison. Mehmet Koçar lived in Fetullah Gülen dorms in middle school when he was a child, and then he barely finished college, became a math teacher. He was suspended from his post, his profession, and was sent to prison just because he stayed in their homes. You know what? Yesterday there was a drama, dear friends, suicide. He's got two kids, four, six, one girl, one boy. They're not aware of the world, they're orphans, I'm afraid. How will you bear its conscience and its burden? Unfortunately, the government of education and health has failed in the last 14 years. Many ministers have come and gone, six ministers have come and passed, many projects in education, such as 4+4+4. Sir, he's going to get better, he's going to get better. And you know, in the end, especially with the FATlH Project, they were going to hand out Internet and tablets to people -- some of them -- all of Turkey, but unfortunately, people couldn't use them, so I want to tell you the truth. Look, this picture is the garden of an elementary school in the countryside, and the children are playing here, and this is the girls' bathroom. This school has leaks, it's got no heat, the kids can't get out of the cold. These kids, do they dream about tablets or are they in a warm classroom? I'll leave it to your discretion. The village schools in the country where the minister was found are like this, as in the east, as in Anatolia, and so has he just said, and so has Mersin. If you can't provide a warm school, a class, of course those kids will be second in international exams, and PlSA will be second in last, third in last. As for health, especially from my district, we recently earmarked 111 billion dollars. From my village, there is a 25 - year - old girl named Emine Urkun, the village's beauty, the village's beloved. Vomiting goes to the doctor because of nausea. The doctor transfers him to another hospital, and after visiting eight hospitals, this patient, unfortunately, dies 12 days later at the end of the tides between hospitals. If they look at this patient's face, if a doctor sees his breathing, his jaundice, they'll notice his liver failure, he'll be living among us today, Mr. Secretary. Our Minister of Health is here, and I want to make it very clear. In the health that many people, especially the Prime Minister, boasted, the transformation took away a young man. Now, how do we tell her parents and her fiancé? In particular, the trick is not to look at 150 patients from three to five minutes a day, but to make quality health care; it is to be able to heal the patient and to keep him alive. If you want 222 billion, if you don't care enough about protective medicine, quality, you don't get results, whether you're second in health or third in city hospitals. If you haven't been able to save that 25-year-old, read all the crap you want here. Respected MPs, Turkey has been subjected to a structural decay process with all its elements and institutions. I say this not as a party member's mentality, but as a patriot. We're in the same boat, but our ship is rotting, taking on water. We need to get out of this decaying process and get to the resurrection process as soon as possible. How is that possible? It's a combination of common fundamentals. These common values are fundamental values that you know. What are these basic values? These values are real, science, rights and law to leave our future, beautiful Turkey to our children. We need to understand the truth from the sciences, and the truth is, we need to establish laws, and we need to govern society accordingly. Our country must be governed by science, truth and law. Management is now the subject of science. If the country is ruled by personal ambitions, the collapse will accelerate. With science, with our resources, with our knowledge, we can together, together, stop this collapse. What should we do first? We must end the State of Emergency, establish the state of law, ensure the distribution of income; we must devote more resources to science, education, art, culture, and RD, especially youth unemployment; we must give up the love of the presidency. I can't imagine where the constitutional presidency would lead us if the presidential government did this to the country. There's no way we can support a budget with no people in it, no peace, no environment. I wish you a healthy and happy new year. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0258par0409	Thank you, Mr. Iron.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0259par0410	The speaker has spoken to me, so if you'll excuse me, I'll answer.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0258par0411	The Minister has a request for a statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0259par0415	Dear President, thank you very much. As far as my witness is concerned, your esteemed witness has made a statement that I didn't expect very much. Tell me as much as you like. I'd like to think I've heard that as an expression that, in the course of the conversation, probably slipped out.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0260par0417	Why would it slip out of your mouth? He's saying it on purpose.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0259par0418	I'd like to think so.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0260par0419	That's what you think.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0259par0420	Are you our friend's lawyer?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0261par0421	He didn't tell you, sir. He didn't tell you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0259par0422	Sir, are you the attorney of the speaker?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0262par0423	If you say it differently...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0259par0424	Please be kind.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0263par0425	Be polite.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0262par0426	It'd be nicer if you said it differently. Be kind, too, please.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0259par0427	Sir, look, I'm talking to my friend.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0262par0428	Be more polite, please.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0264par0429	Congressmans, please, I promised the Minister.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0259par0430	I'm talking to a respected congressman, so please don't get all lawyered up, okay?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0265par0431	You go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0266par0432	Go ahead, don't answer every sentence.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0259par0433	My dear President, it's a statement... and now, after a while some things are said, it seems real in people's memories, and it's not like looking at a patient in three or five minutes and looking at a patient, it's like looking at 150 patients. There is no such thing in Turkey. Our valuable physicians in Turkey also serve their patients with a full heart when we consider the lack of numbers. 15 to 20 minutes for a patient is our goal as Health Department. On average, we're giving a patient ten minutes. There's only one reason why we lack doctors in Turkey if we have doctors, specialists, even if it's a little bit less time than that. Turkey is still the least of the number of doctors in European countries, according to its population. So we shouldn't have to inspire our doctors who work so hard, like they're treating their patients any other way, and we shouldn't have the impression that the Health Department system is causing this. In Turkey, the Change in Health Programme is a real -- look, it's not a nominal -- the money for protective health care has increased fivefold, and that's what the Change in Health Program is. Turkey is a country that can give its children 13 vaccines for free, for example. Therefore, I beg you, let us not use this word for more than three or five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0267par0437	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0259par0438	When we use this, it's as if this really is happening everywhere in Turkey, and we're setting up a mistake. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0267par0440	Thank you. Mr. Sky, you've entered the system. I promise you by 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0268par0444	Thank you, Mr. President. Our speaker spoke in a manner as calm as possible and as truthful as possible during today's talks that I've been watching. Mr. Secretary, don't bullshit me. The promise has been taken. Now, don't bullshit me. What does it tell you at the Turkish Language Foundation? When the responsible person is asked for the responsibility of those in the position of responsibility, they are excuses and meaningless reasons listed without support by the person in charge. Hence, it is not possible to say it for an insult. The word doesn't mean that in that sense either. Mr. Secretary's been a little sensitive, too, but it's a good way to put it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0269par0448	Thank you, thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0270par0449	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0269par0450	I give you my word according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0270par0452	Mr. President, I'd like to take a statement regarding a report published by the Human Rights Association yesterday, especially because it concerns this Parliament. The Human Rights Association has stated that our representatives in prisons have been recorded regularly during talks with them, that they have been in isolation conditions in general, especially since the MPs have been asked to be taken to the hospital in handcuffs when they are ill and need to be examined. You know, Mr. Ahmet Türk is carrying a pacemaker, and since he was asked to be taken to the hospital in handcuffs, he hasn't been checked out yet. The second thing is that torture claims -- as I said in the morning -- are very intense. I particularly want to call it Flute Çolak, which is also specifically stated in this report. After the naked search, a police officer reportedly turned off the lights and struck the chest and genital area and repeatedly faced the threat of rape, especially women's detentions. There are other names, they've published a long report. I would like to state that it is a duty for every deputy in this parliament, especially all of the MPs involved in human rights, women's rights, child's rights commissions, to examine this report and to properly examine its authenticity, to carry it out. There must be serious measures to be taken about this. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0271par0458	Thank you. The last speaker on behalf of the groups is Mardin MP Erol Dora on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0272par0466	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 13 of the 2017 Central Management Budget Act. I salute the General Assembly. The Parliamentary institution, which allows society to govern the country's politics in this sense, is the apple of the republic and the tradition of representative democracy, consisting of the elected MPs of the people, whose dignity, dignity, and power are from here. Dear lawmakers, at the point where we are today in Turkey, unfortunately we are faced with a threat that has already exceeded the level of concern for civil policy and democratic criteria. We now have little to shed light on the threshold between politics and violence, violence, law order, and extraordinary state and other concepts. Another similar attitude arises in the form of ambiguating the threshold that separates crime and politics, criminal concepts and political concepts, criminal violence and politics. Politics in Turkey is under the pressure of criminal terms, procedures, perhaps more than ever before. As of today, our party co-chairs, Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ, are under arrest and are under lockdown; our Group Vice Presidents, Mr. İdris Bauken and Çağlar Demirel, are under arrest and held in isolation. Again, our other arrested MPs are under lockdown. On the other hand, we have a total of 43 trustees assigned to our 43 municipalities, 62 co-chairs arrested in the election with high support from the public. Mardin Metropolitan Co-Chair Ahmet Türk and Diyarbakır Metropolitan Co-Chair Gültan Kışanak, who have dedicated their lives to peace, are striking examples in this context. See, in the last year, around 15,000 HDP and Democratic Territories members have been taken into custody and about 5,000 of them have been arrested. Clearly, the criminalization of a political structure and the mass criminalization of millions of our citizens, who are willing to build this structure, making politics a target for the media in many areas, the level of pressure facing alternative policy development in Turkey, expressing alternative ideas, is very clear. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, where we come from, politicians are under more pressure than ever before to declare a legitimate political opinion or to conduct a legitimate political action. What determines where legitimate politics begins and ends for a politician, where the criminal verb begins and ends, is that it is determined by those who have power and power according to the rules of democracy and law that cannot be explained with any of the principles of democracy and law. It is unacceptable in any democratic regime that the framework of the concept of legitimacy is a monopoly on political power. It is not an attitude that anyone who cares about democracy and politics can defend that an extremely ordinary political activity, or even any action with a certain political motivation, is easily made subject to a criminal trial. In this context, it is necessary to see that as civilian politics becomes the object of criminal prosecutions, our connection to the modern world and universal democratic values will continue to suffer even more. Mr. President, valued lawmakers; see, the decision not to open a new negotiating title taken by the Council of Ministers of the European Union, adopted by the European Union as a whole of democratic values, is a pain in terms of the relations between Turkey and the European Union, which we accept as a whole, following the European Parliament's recommendation that the accession talks should be temporarily halted after six months of intensive rights violations in Turkey. Trying to ignore the Copenhagen Criteria, which defines democracy, rule of law, human rights and minority rights as political criteria, will never get us to a good point. Again, pretending that there are no fundamentals to the Venice Commission's immunity to legislature, the parliamentary immunity, will only undermine our country's democracy further. On the other hand, the European Convention on Human Rights and the irreparable core rights of the 15th Amendment of our Constitution are principles that cannot be ignored. In this context, it is important for Turkey's future that our elected deputies and mayors, who are treated as political hostages, are released immediately. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have been arrested, including about 150 journalists in the state of emergency practices, which have been persistently ignoring the minimum principles of the law for six months, while more than 150 broadcast organs have been closed, hundreds of NGOs, associations and foundations have been sealed off. As the pressured environment within our universities, which are already far behind in the modern world, has been halted by various methods as a result of extraordinary behavioural practices. We can't stand the fact that colleges who are constantly disciplined by RD pressure can't even choose their own presidents anymore. In this case, it's absurd to expect colleges to do qualified scientific studies. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, of course, we see one of the most negative consequences of political and social tension policies in the economy. We have a currency that loses 20% in exchange for currency within a year. A simple calculation is that in industry, we are a country that imports energy sources, such as oil, natural gas, which we use in everyday life, and we all know that we don't do this import with Turkish lira. Thus, the loss of 20 percent value in exchange for foreign currency will be reflected in inflation figures that will negatively affect everyone in every aspect of life. During a period of need for more foreign currency to cover the cari transaction deficit, change your public tattoos. The absurdity of your calls and campaigns is evident. Even this campaign alone is a confession of unsustainable economic progress. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the minimum wage detection commission, recently held its first meeting. Turkey-İsk, who represented the workers at the meeting, demanded a 23 per cent increase, and the employer's response to the demand for minimum wage to increase to 1,600 TL was zero. So at the point where we're here, the minimum wage worker has no means to make a living at this rate, and on the other hand, as a result of the economic recession, employers are less able to afford it. The unemployment rate of TÜİK (TÜİK) has been 13.2% in Turkey as of the 2nd quarter of 2016, for the age of 15 to 35. Of course, we all know quite clearly that actual unemployment is above that number. Mr. President, before I end my speech, I'd like to explain and report to Parliament once again the calls that we have repeatedly expressed as parties. We want to shout once again to the public and Parliament of Turkey that politics should be abandoned for democracy, for the sake of our country, for the sake of political policy and security policies that lead to instability in all areas, arbitrary criminal practices and especially extraordinary conditions. In the 21st century world, the Kurdish issue and the demand for equal citizenship in the context of freedom of faith, which has been constantly proliferated in the context of the Kurdish issue and the Alevi issue, all demand for democratic rights that wait for a solution must be immediately brought to the agenda, return to the democratic solution and peace process, to the strong democracy, the rule of law, to open up the modern and reasonable provisions that will serve free and equal citizenship, and once again, I salute the General Assembly with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0273par0480	Thank you, Mr. Dora. The first word on their behalf belongs to Tekirdağ MP Metin Akgün. Here you go, Mr. Akgun.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0274par0484	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 13th article of the 2017 Central Management Budget Act. I salute your grand delegation and the citizens who are watching us on their screens. I also condemn the human drama of Aleppo with hatred, and wish that the people of Aleppo be saved at once. Before I begin my remarks, on Saturday (December 10th), I curse the traitorous terrorist attack in Beşiktas, asking for God's mercy on those of us who lost their lives, their family's patience and their condolences and immediate healing for our wounded. Mr. President, the Turkish economy has continued to grow despite all the negatives that have been happening inside and out. In many developed and developing countries, growth has been fluctuating, while Turkey has grown uninterrupted for 27 quarters and continued to separate in a positive direction from other developing countries. In the first half of 2016, Turkey's economy grew at 2.5 times the speed of developing countries, with support from domestic demand, except China and India, but the July 15 coup attempt, the terrorist attacks, the recession in tourism, and the weak foreign demand weakened growth in the 2nd half of the year. On the night of the July 15 coup, a group of members of the Turkish Armed Forces have attempted a comprehensive and organised coup with orders and instructions from the leader of the organisation. He has activated all forms of violence, manslaughter, oppression, and threats, in order to rule the country by taking out our democratically elected legitimate President, the government and Parliament. This terrorist group, in particular this group, has acted to assassinate our President of the Republic of Turkey, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, to control the Republic of Turkey, to block the civil resistance of our people at gunpoint, to suppress media organs under duress, to cover up their own illegitimateness, to seize the key institutions of the Turkish Grand National Assembly and state through attack, to force its will to establish its will. However, under the leadership of our first elected President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our police force, members of the Turkish Armed Forces and our beloved nation, this treacherous coup attempt has been repelled. Those who cause it will pay a heavy price. We will continue to hold our democracy and our national will until our last breath, and we will take care of it. This time, these traitors have targeted the balance and stability of the economy. Those who played on Turkey, when they couldn't reach their goal with their pawns in military suits, drove their other pawns with money packs, but this time they won't succeed. Because they don't know math, they don't know economics, they don't know politics, they don't know history. If they knew mathematics, they would realize that Turkey's economy has grown threefold in the last 14 years, and if they understood the economy, they would realize that in 2002 they were facing a Turkey that reduced the GDP of public net debt -- 61.5% -- to 8.3%. If they understood history, they would realize that this nation, in poverty, had dumped seven heifers into the sea in Çanakkale, and had restricted Anatolia to the most modern military force of its time, would not have kneeled on its knees. I salute our High Council.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0275par0493	Thank you, Mr. Akgun. In turn, it belongs to the people of Aydın MP Deniz Depboylu. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0276par0497	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on Article 13 of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill. I salute the Holy Turkish nation and the Veterans Assembly. Before I begin my speech, I'd like to talk about the drama in Aleppo. Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, convoys carrying civilians in Aleppo are bombed, civilians killed; older men, women, children who do not carry weapons are killed. A world where children are killed has lost their innocence and their conscience. Especially if all these people can remain unresponsive about this injustice, this massacre, just by closing their eyes or by not making a sound, then, given the human values, we've all lost a lot of value. Therefore, in order to end this massacre, this pain, we need to raise our voices, this distress, this drama, stop. Dear MPs, there are 3 million refugees sheltering in our country. In a speech, he expressed that Turkey has become the center of attraction in the region. Actually, if you look at it, I'm having a little trouble understanding it. I'm looking at tourism, and the tourists aren't coming, so we're no longer the attraction for tourism. I'm in Kuşadası district of Aydın, my own constituency, in the summer months, at 17 p.m. For the first time, I saw the shutters being lowered. We're looking, unfortunately, investors aren't coming to Turkey. Then why are we the center of attraction? I don't know if the Minister cared about the number of refugees coming in on this, but we have to consider the problems of these refugees, which is another point. Besides, we have to remember that nearly 3 million refugees are children. These children are our trusts to remember while we solve our own children's problems. We need serious work done by experts to resolve the problems of refugees and children. I know that you have such a unit in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, but I also have serious concerns at the point where the officers employed in this unit are employed on the basis of what criteria, what areas they've graduated from. Dear lawmakers, we have departments opening up in universities as social services specialists. The e-mails are coming to me, and they're definitely coming to you, and the social worker's graduates are over 5,000 years old, but they're having employment problems. In view of other experts who work under the name of social workers, it does not make much sense for social workers to be left out. In a difficult geography, in different times of history, we try to build our futures by fighting different challenges in our unique country, which we have protected with difficulty, with heavy costs. We have children who can't complete their reading rights. We haven't solved our own children's problems yet. We have children who can't get a good education. The results of the PISA assessment upset us, but the comments made by the Ministry of National Education, by the Minister, are even more concerned. We're raising a generation that doesn't understand what you're reading. If these kids can't understand what you're reading, what's the connection going to be? They're gonna settle a fight with a fight? What are his professional skills, skills? Again, when we consider the explanations, it is impossible to understand how you can accept being ranked 50th in 72 countries. The government should stop bragging about what they're doing, and have to look at the empty side of the glass, because it's impossible to solve problems by looking at the full side. Sometimes the precious AKP MPs and ministers who stand on this stand say things that sometimes I wonder if we live in the same place, if we live in the same place, if we live the same size, I find it hard to understand. From behind which curtain are the problems of the country? But we have to solve all the problems of our country, especially our children. It's not possible to solve these problems with everyday policies about children. I remind you that there must be a separate budget for the children, and I ask that it be done. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0277par0507	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. Now we're going to do the question-answer process for ten minutes. Your Grace, please.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0278par0510	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Minister of Finance. And yesterday, I brought up the final issue of the closed war from the stand. The closed shop is crying out for blood. Istanbul is my constituency, which means it needs to be supported. The historical routes in particular are not like the streets outside and are occupied by the municipality, Mr. Secretary. In this regard, the tradesman expects some information from you. We've already had our backs bent and broken by police officers who come to this invasion every two days. Can we be supported in this matter, at least for a year, until the economic crisis is a little over? In that sense, the closed shop awaits the good news. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0279par0513	Mr. Bachelor...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0280par0514	Thank you. My question to Mr. Finance Minister: Madam Minister, Rize-Artvin Airport has been passed by the High Planning Board and bids for its tender. In response to the question I asked you earlier, you said that this airport would cost $1 billion 350m, and you said that you had spent $150 million for 2017, that it would be done in a thousand days. Well, if this airport costs $1 billion, 350m, and 150 million per year, it doesn't end in nine years. Do you plan to do additional funds or other things about this matter? And you got the bids on the tenders. These offers are over two months old, and when will they be over? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0281par0517	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0282par0518	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there was a state hospital built in Düzce, but there are no shortages, there are too many shortages of Düzce State Hospital. 1) There are no surgeries available here. 2) There are no beds for patients in need of bed treatment, not admitted. 3) The hospital doesn't have a parking lot. 4) The new hospital has no emergency services, no emergency services. 5) Only clinic services are available. 6) The old earthquake hospital is being repaired and emergency services are being provided there. In this regard, when will these shortcomings in the new hospital be completed in Düzce? When will this health issue of our citizen in the flat - access to health - be resolved? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0283par0528	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0284par0529	Mr. Secretary, I've been told that there will be 30,000 liras of zero interest loan support for the tradesman. However, about 48,000 out of 2 million tradesmen were able to benefit from such conditions as the absence of a debtor. It is now said to be a non-interest-free loan, but, unfortunately, without a record pardon, a large portion of the tradesmen can't benefit from it either. A record pardon is one of the most essential things in our country, especially when economic conditions are very bad. Is there any interest in an investigation into a criminal pardon? Why wasn't there a record pardon in this package? Is there going to be any work done by your Ministry on this matter, otherwise the tradesmen won't be able to benefit from it?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0283par0530	Mr. Hero...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0285par0531	Thank you, Mr. President. As we all know, with some private administrations closed down, private management goods were given to local municipalities in that area. In other words, the property in Bursa was given to the municipality there - the property of the private administration - and the goods in Tripoli to the municipality of Tripoli. But that was not the case in Izmir, and that was the difference in Izmir, where all the goods were handed over to the Ministry of Finance, or to the governor's office there. These are Izmirian property. Will there be an era of these Izmirian goods? What do you think about that? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0286par0534	Mr. Ahrazoglu...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0287par0535	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, boats and yachts are given cheap diesel. When are our farmers and truckers gonna get cheap diesel? You had an explanation for the absence of SVVV from our cabbie shop. Has this practice ever been implemented? How many people have benefited from this? Do you think you're not going to get the SVR from our trucker shop? Also, there are some documents like the SRC requested from the trucker shop. Do you consider a discount on the prices of these documents? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0288par0540	Now I give my word to the Minister. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. He's about to answer the questions.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0289par0542	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Erdem, they've made an assessment of our tradesmen. I'd like to answer in writing if they think it's appropriate. Mr. Bacheloroglu, I've responded before about the funding for the Rize airport, but don't worry, we haven't missed any projects so far. In this particular case, we will work as ministries on the speedy completion of the Rize airport, and hopefully, we will soon complete this project, which all of our people in that area are eagerly awaiting. There should be no hesitation here. So far, we've always invested the most resources. So we all know that this project is an important project for Turkey, for that region. Although such a initial initial grant was initially predicted, hopefully, there will be additional funds there, depending on the rapid fulfillment of the business, and hopefully as we finished the last Army-Greesun Airport, we'll finish the Rize airport as soon as possible and open it to all our citizens in that area. Don't worry about it there. Mr. Tanal mentioned some setbacks regarding the state hospital in Düzce. Mr. Health Minister is here, and he may be able to answer in detail. I don't have any specific information, let me put it this way. Mr. Rootal has raised the issue of amnesty. Hopefully, there will be a positive development. Thus, the details of this can be explained properly, but we have the government's work to facilitate our tradesman's access to finance and to improve existing financing structures. And what you've brought up is that we've been working on the issues that we've been working on very recently, and maybe tomorrow we'll be able to come up with a solution. We'll explain that in the proper way. Mr. Yigit, the special management property has been earmarked for whatever administrations are being used, depending on the actual use of the law on this city's municipality. In some provinces, there have been doubts or disagreements about the fitness of the allocations carried out by the governorates here; Izmir is one of them, I know, and if I remember correctly, the issue has also been brought to court. I mean, the parties here have their own demands. By considering these demands, perhaps we should resolve them before the trial, so we need the needs of our municipalities, and we need to come up with a common understanding of the needs of the central administration. However, the commissions established by the governorates at the time made these decisions based on the actual use or actual savings the law stipulated. In any case, the central administration has no control or approval of governorial commissions. The governorships have done all this from local information, from the work of the local commission. If there are mistakes, they'll be corrected, so we don't have to worry about that. However, a more coordinated structure has also been created in the presentation of services, especially as these urban municipalities have been made into a whole city. Some changes also came up during that practice, and we are conducting studies on those issues. A recent change in law enforcement will also be on our agenda. To our farmers, indeed, since 2002, we've always implemented a large number of support programmes as a state, so that our farmers can make their production at a lower cost, or that their income levels remain where they live, in the best way possible for them to manage agriculture where they live. We've increased the amount of support we've given over the years, and we've made arrangements to reduce the production costs of our farmers, including tax cuts, especially subsidies payments. Our Prime Minister announced the latest gas support. Half of the cost of diesel will start to apply in 2017, and they will start paying in 2018. An important improvement has been made here. In addition, our Ministry of Agriculture is doing a study that will allow our agricultural support payments to be made up of a smaller amount of support, simpler, simpler, to allow our farmers to collect support payments in a few months of the year. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0290par0550	Thank you. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. MADDE 14- (1) This Law takes effect on 1/1/2017. The first word for the groups on the matter belongs to İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem (Islamic Party) on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0291par0558	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the 14th article of the budget. Veteran Assembly, I salute the beloved Turkish nation watching us on their screens, the precious pressmen, and the employees of our Veteran Assembly. By the way, before we start speaking, yesterday, our Customs Minister gave news from the bench about the registration pardon. He said, "We will soon make a statement concerning this matter." Of course, there is a lack of communication or agreement among government officials. And I'd like to rephrase that. I'd also like to point out that we're expecting an explanation. We all know how low agricultural production is in our country. In our country, food spending has increased by more than 30 per cent over the last decade, while production has remained almost constant. In the same process, our population increased by about 12 percent. The amount of land planted in the last 12 years has decreased by about 10 million hectares. Food control isn't done enough, harmful foods are, unfortunately, going around the market. Sub-stairs productions are increasing day by day. Animalism has become one of our most important problems. Importing policy is a blow to animalism. Animal disease has increased, and the damage to our livestock revenue has been around 30 percent. The main causes of the decline in animal production are inadequacy in animal rehabilitation, animal farming in primitive stables, poor and malnourished diet, young illness, epidemic disease, and I'd like to point out that we are one of the most expensive eating countries in the world. Because the immunization was not done on time, about 400,000 calves are lost each year, which is equivalent to the amount of cattle we import. In order to encourage animal production, it is not enough to give cheap loans, to distribute cheap animals, but to increase animal production, to make it profitable, needs to be done quickly. Dear lawmakers, we are a country surrounded by seas on three sides, and water products are not properly evaluated, and in this regard, unfortunately, projects are not being produced. It's urgent that the national sea projects be carried out. Precious lawmakers, healthy food production and consumption, the health and adequate production of animal foods, the most economic delivery of water products, the development of our country's economy and the monitoring of proper agricultural and animalism policies, require more agriculture, food, water products and fishing technology engineers, veterinary physicians, technicians and technicians' employment. In that sense, we also need to make the faces of our young ones waiting for the staff smile. So instead of importing, we also provide jobs for thousands of young people who have graduated from these chapters. On this occasion, we'll be moving towards exports instead of imports. Most of the society is below the poverty line, considering the monthly and wage levels in our country, pensioners, public employees and small tradesmen's income. Current indicators show that unemployment and poverty will not change in the coming years, perhaps deepen. Dear lawmakers, our young people's participation in the labour force is very low. Our young people's hopes for the business market after training have been completely exhausted. Lack of vocational education is one of our major problems. The youth unemployment rate is twice as high as the general unemployment rate. The unemployment rate among college graduates is much higher, I'm afraid. Our teachers, forest engineers, economics and administrative sciences graduates, justice, real estate and real estate management, medical secretary, accounting, laboratory and veterinary health technicians, map cadastro, business health and safety graduates, unfortunately, and graduates of many departments I can't finish counting here. If we can't get jobs, why are these universities still open, and why are we graduating from there? In our country, thousands of people who are teachers and can't do their job are employed in different levels of government. Many of our young ones have lost hope and are waiting for a solution, hoping to do their own job. Unfortunately, thousands of young people who can't get their education's worth are unable to announce their voice to the ruling party. As a guardian of the National Movement Party, we've always raised the problems of our precious young people from this stand, and from now on, we'll continue to carry on, not tire out, not get tired. Our young people are precious, so please let us listen to their voices, let us put our hands on our conscience, and let us no longer ignore their struggle. Dear MPs, everyone has the right to social security in Article 60 of our Constitution. The state takes the necessary measures to ensure this security and establishes the organization. The provisions are in place. In this sense, the state must establish a social security system that includes equal rights and obligations for all individuals, one of the most important objectives of social security policies. However, on the day they get the job, we have to listen to the voice of people who are age victims, even though they have completed the amount of insurance and premium paydays required for retirement, even though they have earned the right to retire. Those who live at an age in retirement, whose rights have been earned, are seeking their rights and trying to express their victims, but there is still no solution. In public universities, researchers are employed in two different positions. There are rights and injustices among employees of 33/A, 50/D and SYP status who are employed in the same criteria and do the same work, and they must be eliminated. Our women are trying to raise their voices again, and they say, "Hear our voices." He says, "Let necessary procedures be made concerning pre-insurgency debt." There is no doubt that a solution is expected. Dear lawmakers, in the ruling party's November 1st election declaration, we will employ subcontractors working for the public's needs. It's been a year, and it's been written in the water. The subcontractors have been disappointed, and like many election promises, the subject of subcontractors has been rescinded. I'd like to address the ruling party here: What is the obstacle to the fact that you can't employ contractors even though you have an election declaration? Please answer this question. It's one of the big problems of hiring employees in public institutions and institutions, which is a 4/C status, which is temporary staff, so please listen to this, and let's work this out together. These are the demands of our beloved Turkish nation, these are our duties, they're in our hands, we have to carry them out. Dear lawmakers, severance is said to be the compensation the employer is obliged to pay to the employee under Labour Law 4857 when the employee's employment contract is terminated. The employee must have worked at the same workplace or at the same workplace for at least a year to qualify for severance pay. As lawmakers, we produce many jobs under this Veteran Assembly, perhaps many successes. We have hidden heroes in our work, my friends. Who are they? Our counselors, we have to work late at night, we have to work with us, we have to work with us, we have to work with us, we have to work with us, we have to work with us, we have to work with our brothers in the kitchen. Our advisers in the kitchen of our work are unfortunately unable to receive severance and unemployment allowance. A severance pay is a human right, and unfortunately the only people who can't get severance pay are our valued advisors. We need to give our advisers their rights; the National Movement Party has put up a fight for it. Mr. Group Vice President Erkan Akçay Sir has made an offer of law, so let's consider this law proposal together and give our advisers the right they deserve. We've got veterans under the roof of the Veterans Parliament, and they're with us everywhere. Have you ever heard of our 290 staffed staff members who are the assistant services class working under the roof of the Turkish Grand National Assembly? We pass them every day, and they have problems. When they're examined, they're only waiting for an answer at the point of their rights, because they're not sure because they're not sure where they are, the integrity of our work between the two lips. There is also a shortage of additional indicators related to our friends from another institution, who have been assigned to a staff at other public institutions and have served for two years. Again, we must not forget our brothers who serve us in the House in the teapots and in our rooms, waiting for the news of the staff. Yesterday, praises were spoken about our veterans and martyrs from this stand. In that sense, the inequality must be eliminated. Our veterans and veterans, our fallen relatives and their families must be given priority in employment, and they must be given the right they deserve. And those who were injured during terrorism, who weren't considered veterans, are always waiting for extradition, and we already know they deserve that honor, they're our heroes. And in that sense, I expect all of your support. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0292par0579	Thank you, Your Grace. The second statement is for the People's Democratic Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0293par0583	Mr. President, I have made a commitment on the 14th Amendment. I'd like to bring to our agenda the question motion that Mr. Demirtaş, our co-Chair, who is still in prison, brought to Parliament after great difficulties. These questions, of course, are not only for Mr. Demirtaş himself, but for the time when he filed the question motion, I would also like to point out that he was in prison with 10 MPs, but that the number rose to 12 on the day the answer came. You have to remember the questions again. Question number one: do you intend to make any attempt to arrest the 10 MPs of your presidential office without a parliamentary decision? There is no answer. Question number two: will there be any attempt by you to ensure that the 10 MPs are still in solitary confinement in the type F cells? There is no answer. The third question is: Do you see that all correspondence, including this question motion, is subject to audit, Parliamentary Institution and Constitution, even though the MPs are currently untouchable? There is no answer. The fourth question is: Do you think that silence in the face of the HDP MPs who might consider such practices as an attack on the reputation of the Parliament has nothing to do with parliamentary democratic politics and Parliament? There is no answer. The fifth question is, are you planning to take measures to protect the right to a fair trial given to Parliament as Speakers of Parliament against the Prime Minister and President's statements, who are seeking to influence the judiciary by declaring a final judgment against us before the trial has even begun? There is no answer. The sixth question is, are you planning to examine the conditions in which the 10 members of your Parliament are held in prison and what practices they face? (An answer to that is: At least in one part of the answer, the MPs, representatives of our Aziz nation, of the national will, must continue to take the rule of law, the rule of law, the Constitution, and the laws, and by fully absorbing democracy, the one flag, one country, one nation, and one nation should continue to move our country further. If that's an answer, I'll leave it to you fellow congressmen. But, we would like to say to the Speaker of Parliament, indeed, on behalf of all of us, as lawmakers, of course, on behalf of the MPs and co-chairs held in prison: Do we really have to be the enforcers of Mr. President's dream of singularity? Is that an obligation? With this answer, you are the enforcers of this dream of singleness and all of you, regardless of the party's difference, are required to be called, and I want to say that we are not obliged to do so. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course you're going to say, what's in the question motion's answer? In the first chapter, it was a very roundabout way to avoid answering the selected questions, and they felt they had to give a long answer, but it's a very sad situation, unfortunately, a lawyer wrote that answer. I mean, you don't have to be a lawyer to figure that out, but it's pretty obvious that the lawyer wrote it with the materials and the nature of it. In the first paragraph, Article 83 of the Constitution is mentioned -- the same is written -- and then it is said that immunity has been removed once -- until this line -- that Mr. Demirtaş has 77 files on the removal of the immunity of law in the Turkish Grand National Assembly and has been sent to relevant authorities. By the way, I'd like to remind the Speaker that Mr. Demirtaş has no 77 files, 102 files. Because they were in such a hurry that the instructions arrived so quickly instead of... the Ankara we're watching today is 35. The original Criminal Court case had been opened because of a case file, and the date of this trial was May 20th of May, and I'm not exaggerating, and they were in such a hurry that even in the Parliamentary Chairman's distribution, there were a number of files, and there were a number of files, and that's close to 30. Again, he wrote down when the Ministry of Justice arrested him, and in this paragraph, he said, "We know that detention is a judgment of the judge, that there is no intervention in this, that there is no saving against the separation of the forces in the Constitution and the rule of law, so Mr. Demirtaş has responded to such an answer. And after the last paragraph that I said, Mr. Speaker has given a really nice answer -- the final sentences, friends -- as the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I would like to rephrase your request -- that in fact, this is the only answer in the matter that you have expressed in which the law has given us the power and the ability and the opportunity to show it. By God, when he sees the practices... a solitary cell, under the supervision of a lawyer, he gets audio recordings, he can't go to the hospital, he's been taken to the hospital... for the first time -- he's censored the question motions, he can't send a speech to the House. If that's the sensibilities of the Parliamentary presidency, then at least let everything run by the law, let it stay with at least a few people, and let the letters he wrote be examined as a normal citizen because we've repeatedly expressed this sensitivity in reverse, with a very special law, where he's being held in a law-in-law. This is not just about our Co-Chair Mr. Demirtaş, but about all my fellow MPs who are currently in prison. Again, valuable lawmakers, you know, the day before yesterday, Mr. Speaker called an emergency meeting of the group's vice presidents. What is it? Is there going to be a one-in- a-a-thousandth of us, even though it's so tiny, that there's going to be a little movement in the public that says, "Will there be an improvement on the arrested MPs?" But do you know why? I'm afraid we're walking with the Speaker of Parliament, who has called a meeting to remove the photos of members of his Parliament, who have been held in prisons, but whose members have been taken into custody while they're being arrested. Now, really, in response to his response, we ask the Speaker: Are you not curious? Why aren't you curious about the circumstances in which the members of this institution you're running for president are currently in prison? Why don't you go visit? I'd also like to say, if you were an apartment manager, if you weren't the Speaker, if something happened to a neighbor, wouldn't you really go and say, "Get over it?" You can go. We left him, and you didn't go to your neighbor to tell him to get better, so why don't you call his family, his wife, his father, his mother, and tell him to get better? I'm asking the Speaker. Is there a place for this in our customs of Anatolian law and customs? He's got no place. And he's obviously not considering a proper examination. Here, I mean, seriously, the Speaker of Parliament, our previous Speakers, at least verbally said that this was not the case for Turkey, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, that they were trying to get over it. Even if they couldn't, there was an effort to do so, but with that answer now, the reputation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has really been damaged once again. And if we all, as lawmakers, don't object to this painting, no one is less than that. In any order, all lawmakers may be subjected to these practices, but we promise to follow their rights violations. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0294par0603	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş. I know, I know, I know, I know, I've been given my answer, which is my signature.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0293par0605	I know, I know. Excuse me, Mr. President, I'm the Speaker.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0294par0606	Exactly. It is very clear what questions can be asked in Articles 96 and 97 of the Civil Code, so there should not be any personal opinion. Again, there shouldn't be any questions of consultation. The Civil Code set it up. And you used a statement about the number of proceedings.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0295par0608	If you interpret it that way, Mr. President, you're misinterpreting it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0294par0609	The Civil Code says, Mr. Adıyaman, open, look, the 96th and 97th articles. As the number of fezlekes is 77, that's the number of proceedings held in the House. Of course, we didn't have any knowledge of the number of proceedings outside the House in the Ministry of Justice or other judicial institutions. So there were 77 proceedings, which were referred to parliament, as were the number of proceedings in the Karma Commission, as there were in the Parliamentary Presidency, and that's how we put it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0296par0612	Mr. President, I have to respond to your statement. In my answer, I said, not 77, but 102, and that's your answer...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0294par0613	Okay, yeah. We reported 77 because the total number of proceedings in Parliament was 77.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0296par0614	I don't want it to be mutual if you want it to be... What I'm trying to say is that right now, your Parliamentary Office doesn't know the number of MPs who have been in prison for 45 days and the number of proceedings that have been on the prosecution's investigation since 20 May.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0297par0616	There's 102 of you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0296par0617	I'm trying to tell you that you don't have 102 trials.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0298par0618	That's why we called it 77, right.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0296par0619	It was rushed so quickly that hundreds of proceedings dated May 20th were presented to the prosecutors.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0298par0620	Now, since immunity has been lifted, the relevant proceedings have been notified to the judicial authorities, not only about you, but about all the MPs.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0296par0621	And that there are no personal questions here...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0299par0622	There's no personal question there.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0296par0623	There are no personal questions, all about the state of the arrested MPs in prison.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0300par0624	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the third word for the group belongs to İstanbul MP Zeynel Emre. Here you go, Mr. Emre.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0301par0628	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In fact, apparently, this year, just like the established practice of the past year, no matter what the opposition says, it's going to mean nothing more than writing it down, maybe making a note of history in some sense. This budget will be voted out here again, as usual. The public's interest in the budget is limited, too, because the priority of public opinion is the issue of terrorism, the priority of our citizen's right to live, the priority of our citizen, the security of Turkey and Turkey, for short. We're going through a tough time as Turkey. The pain of the recent terrorist attack at Beşiktas is still within us. In particular, over the past year, Turkey has been under heavy attack by terrorist organisations, especially the PKK, and the damage it has done to our country is enormous. Dear MPs, there are some very important milestones in the history of countries. In those special times, parliaments function more than ever, because their decisions determine the fate of the entire nation for generations. Our council's record on this is essentially brilliant. Our Salvation War was directed by this Parliament itself. With the courage, determination, and insight that our coven has shown during the most difficult times, it has succeeded in establishing an independent and powerful state at a point called the end. Recently, on March 1, 2003, he refused to be the instrument of an imperial countertop, which was imposed on him with great pressure; our country is protected from an uncertain adventure. On July 15th, a joint declaration of all parties had brought the coups to a standstill in the hopes of allied gathering without political polarisation, and was targeted by anger, bombed by fighter planes. Now, our coven is facing a new test, and there's another challenge. While we need to find solutions for issues such as regional wars, terrorism, economic conditions, the sad state of judgment and education, political polarisation now threatens social peace, we are today discussing the proposed Constitutional amendment proposed by the presidential system, trying to add something much more severe and perhaps life-threatening to our problems in terms of our state. Now, I have a request from the lawmakers: let us save ourselves from this gloomy, warm political atmosphere and pretend that we have risen from all of our political identities, our prejudices, as if we were a bird, and look at our world from the highest, in which countries there is peace and prosperity, what peoples are happy, who are more free? We have to be honest about this. We can love our leaders, our ideology, our parties, our dreams, we can want to follow them passionately, but we have to be honest; that's what we owe the nation. Our primary responsibility as MPs is to our people who sent us here. Their peace and well-being is our top priority. Now, when we look at the matter with that sincerity, we see the same picture. If there is a separation of forces in a country, if the political and bureaucratic power is limited by effective control and balance mechanisms, then there is peace, expression and media freedom, as well as prosperity in that country, if there is a neutral, independent and efficient judicial mechanism, if there is a rational economy management and autonomous institutions, if there is a educational system based on scientific knowledge, if there is peace, expression, and media freedom. Without them, poverty, violence, bigotry, corruption, and all forms of damnation form a suitable environment. The constitutional amendment you proposed does not fit this equation, which we call "unbelievable." There is only one country in the world where the presidential system -- the United States -- is successful -- that you're partially trying to block out by calling it the presidency. In the United States of America, the federal government and its president are confined to local governments, two-part Parliament, and controlled by an independent and authorized judiciary. The system you're suggesting is very weak in balance and control. All the power gathered at the president's office, the parliamentary election and the presidential election were held simultaneously, aimed to determine the execution and legislation by the same political will. It is not in our political system to give such rights to a party president, while parliamentary dissolution is a right given to an impartial president under very special circumstances. In the system you're proposing, not only will it be based on legislation, but also on judicial execution. The election and criteria of vice presidents, who have been offered important tasks, have been left entirely to the president's pleasure. The decision given to the president also violates the sovereignty of the law. I don't want to go too far into your details, but honestly, there's nothing unsubstantiated about the offer. If someone's offering this system in the name of stability, believe me, there's been a grave mistake. Stability, in a positive sense, is the continuity of public and legal order. If stability, decision-making mechanisms were to be entrusted to one person, the most stable states today would be kingdoms and dictatorships. I'd like to think that no one wants that kind of regime under this roof. One thing that's more important than speedy decision-making is that the mechanism works correctly, it can make sound decisions. In a clear society where powers are distributed, decisions are taken under compromise, consultation, democratic participation and effective supervision. If it is taken like this, no one will be deceived, and no one will be deceived. Some failed coalition governments have been cited as the main motive for this search for authoritarian stability. However, the coalition governments have also done some very useful work for our country. Germany has been ruled by coalition governments for decades, but no one can claim that it was mismanaged. We've been ruled by the one-party administration for 14 years, and I don't think anyone can claim that we're well managed again. We're in the middle of a desperate situation. In addition, coalition governments support domestic peace at the rate it develops the culture of reconciliation in society, as well as the way it files political polarisation. So it's not the system problem. What needs to be done today is not to throw away our parliamentary system experience, but to strengthen its failings, to restore the operating system based on the neutral President and the powerful Prime Minister. The future of our children and our country depends on the common sense shown by our lawmakers. Dear lawmakers, look, this presidential debate has been held at certain intervals in Turkey, but it has been said that this change is essential, claiming that there has been a de facto situation, which has been mentioned recently. Now, what we mean by the actual situation is that some of the articles of the Constitution are not applied or applied by application. Now, I'd like to take from you the answer to this question: The 175th Article of the Constitution has decided how to vote on the Constitution. So since you don't have the 175th amendment in your proposal, it's not a substance that you're actually uncomfortable with, in your case. So we have to accept that if the Constitution changes the way you're talking about it, it won't happen again. So are you going to hold a vote on the Constitutional Amendment in a very short period of time, as it was in Article 175, respecting the secret vote, or are you going to create a de facto situation there, as you did in the previous amendments to the Constitution? If you don't fit in today, all of Turkey should know that there's no point in any further amendments, and I'm saying you won't obey them anyway. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0302par0641	Thank you. The first word on behalf of the individuals belongs to the People's Party (HDP) MP Osman Mesten. Here you go, Mr. Meten. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0303par0646	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the 14th article of the 2017 Central Management Budget Act. Before I begin my speech, I salute the Veteran Assembly, the seat of our national will. We live in a time when we're ashamed of our humanity. On the one hand, the victims of the treacherous coup attempt to intercept the great Turkey, and the bombs that were detonated, the innocent children who were orphaned, burn our hearts. On the other hand, the massacres against civilians in Aleppo, Arakan (Arakan) and Africa, the people who were burned alive, the babies who were tortured, make our hearts tremble. Yes, Aleppo fell, Aleppo fell when the demand for humanity fell. The mask on the face of the wild sectarian understanding, who saw Syria as a revenge field, and the turban on his head fell. The whole world has seen their treacherous, cruel, cruel, genocidal faces. They're trying to suppress a people's legitimate resistance to persecution with all their great power behind it. They want to continue the genocide without even violating the ceasefire declared under Turkey's mediation, and without a single child left. Help convoys are being hit. The United Nations, the European Union, and the United States, tolerate genocide in Srebrenica, Gaza. Once again, we see the understanding of Western human rights with a double standard. The West is not only blinding, but it continues to fuel the fire in the Middle East, arming and training terrorist counsel, such as the PYD and DEAS. The failure of the Islamic world to unite makes it easier for the Westerners to have no other courageous voice but Turkey. The sadness of not being able to do anything but pray and humanitarian help is scorching our hearts. What touches our hearts most are some of us who call the massacre in Aleppo. There's nothing we can do for those who can scream victory even after seeing the human bodies, the bodies of innocent children that the bombs have destroyed. There is no more monster creature on earth than a man whose heart has been taken away from mercy. But I would like to shout from the council bench that we will never allow the same monster spirit to capture our country. Our nation is well acquainted with the Crusaders and their collaborators, the locals who try to make our country look like Syria and Iraq. They've all been caught red-handed, like cockroaches, caught in the light, no matter what the name of the PKK, ا, DAEŞ, DHKP-C. It's obvious that they're all puppets being moved from the same hand. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the declaration of national mobilisation against the terror declared by our President has given our nation a new national spirit of salvation. As we have broken the bloody games for our country and our region in Çanakkale, in the Battle of Salvation, with national mobilization, we will break them today. The spirit of the 15th of July is the most vivid example. It's a one-day thing. Political opinion is the day we put aside our differences and act with a great sense of responsibility in the face of our nation and our state's beka problem. Religion, ideology, ethnitism, and sectal differences should not be a cause for dissension. We shouldn't give bonuses to dark environments trying to provoke through that distinction. The games of the altars who have always wanted to create a civil war of our differences in our country since the expedition attempt must be corrupted by the spirit of unity. Common sense and fear are the main feature of our nation. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we have no land to go to but this country. If we don't fight the spirit of mobilization against the mindset and local extensions that don't want us to live in peace in this land, we can't stop their plans to turn our country into Syria and Iraq, and we can't stop the new Sevr plans. Just as the National Liberation War was led by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I think we have to be pioneers and role models in the new national campaign, as proud members of this Veteran Assembly. I wish our budget of 2017 would be good for our country to become a strong and prosperous Turkey to become a peace and balance in its region, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0304par0653	Thank you. On behalf of his subjects, the second and last speaker is Mud MP Ahmet Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0305par0657	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have now had an argument between Mr. President and Mr. Danış Beştaş, speaking on behalf of our party group, especially after our co-Chair's motion to ask a question, about a process outside the legal framework. I didn't think I was going to get up here, but, Mr. President, look, again, during the ruling period of the party you belong to, in the 2011 elections, you know a lot better than I do a case file on the eight MPs of the three opposition parties, and they were under arrest before they became MPs. Your party, the political power, look, has made a great effort to eliminate a case file that was filed before he became a MP, and the arrests that occurred under those files. So, a ruling party, which has an effort to eliminate previous arrests after one becomes a deputy, transfers their arrests to judicial independence and stays on. Do you have an answer for this, Mr. President? You're a lawyer. Now, consider: Before you become a deputy, perhaps an understanding that eliminates a situation of imprisonment that does not affect the surrogacy; when you are a deputy, you will pass by saying that when you're on the stand, you've been a subject of speech, you've been a subject of question motions, you've been a subject of trial, you've been called freedom of justice, you've been given a reason to talk in areas because you're a deputy, and you've been given a reason to arrest, but you're going to address our demands to eliminate these arrests, and you're going to pass through those practices that have been reduced upon this legislation. I'm looking back, especially when it comes to those detentions, Mr. Cemil Cicek, the head of parliament at the time, and you have your comments, in the middle, that no one should be interrupted. You said, "You have made a serious effort to do so," but it is not realistic that you would describe it as judicial independence, as being a deputy, as being a deputy, as being a politician, as an excuse to arrest actions. Another thing is, I'm going to express a couple of issues about the economy. Our Finance Minister isn't here, but there have been four tax pardons during the current political power period, and the Finance Minister has been saying for the past two weeks that this is a good arrangement for tax pardons and that he's a result buyer. I'll share a number with you directly through the Finance Ministry data, valued lawmakers. Four tax pardons in political power, four times. The average application rate for these tax pardons is 78 per cent. So, what's the collection? 13%. So, when a tax pardon comes out, what does a 78% application mean? It demonstrates his will, his desire to pay off his debts. So, what does it mean that this collection stays at a small point like 13 percent? It shows that people don't have the power to buy or pay off debt. People don't want to be in debt to anyone, to the government, to anyone, to the individuals, to the real and corporate people; they want to pay off what they owe, and they have a will for it, but they don't have that kind of power. That's what we've done to people. We're dealing with the reality and the reality of a society that borrows and then can't pay off those debts. Again, I wish our Finance Minister were here; they have bureaucrats, they'll pass it on. Look, I want to bring to your attention how to explain in the presence of the entire House and what its answer will be, and what its answer will be, I'm very curious about. October 5th, 2016, this year's October 5th, two months ago -- two months and ten days at work -- the Finance Ministry passes a bill from here. It reduces the OTV rate in electric cars from 90 per cent to 45 per cent -- very good -- to encourage the purchase of electric cars. Well, just a month and a half later, the same OTV rate rises from 45 per cent to 60 per cent for electric cars. And what changed in a month and a half? Could there be a government and a government reality that could make such a fundamental change in a month and a half without such unplanned, unscheduled schedules? I'd like to present this to the attention of the entire General Assembly and its viewers, its listeners. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0306par0664	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Now we're going to do the QA. I'll take turns making a promise to the lawmakers who have entered the system. Mr. Ahrazoglu, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0307par0668	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, do you intend to do a study on whether the driver's tradesman should take the required authorizations from the Federation or from the vocational chambers under Highway Transport Act 4925? Number two: Do you have any work on carrying only international goods for those with C2 warrants to avoid unfair competition? Three: Do you plan to set a base price based on the ton of miles in domestic transportation? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0308par0673	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0309par0674	According to TİKİK (TÜİK) labour force statistics in September, the unemployment rate in 15 and higher ages across Turkey increased by 420,000 people in the same period of September in 2016 and reached 3,53,000 people in the same period last year. The unemployment rate was 11.3 per cent with a 1 point increase. In the same period, the unemployment rate was estimated to be 13.7 per cent, with an increase of 1.3 points. What will you do in 2017 to increase employment, to cure unemployment? You're going to solve unemployment with the presidential system you've imposed on society to end coalitions, as a magic formula for survival of stability, political and economic crises? You've been on your own for 14 years, you wanted to solve the problem, but did the President stop it, or did he want to solve it, and your group interfered with it? We sincerely ask you to answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0308par0676	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0310par0677	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance: By the end of 2014, there was a change in the Higher Education Staff Act and a improvement in the salaries of the professors. With this arrangement, administrative staff was excluded from the scope of the rights of faculty while improving them. The difference has been made by the absence of higher education compensation for administrative staff. How do you feel about the request for higher education compensation for administrative personnel? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0311par0680	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0312par0681	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, when I just asked about the village of Hecinler in Düzce Province, it's not my area." You said, you hung up. While you were away, I asked the Finance Minister about your area this time, and I said, "There's been a new hospital in Düzce County, but there's no shortages here." There are no surgeries in the new hospital, no bed treatments here, only clinic services. There's no emergency hospital service at the new hospital, and there's also a parking problem at the hospital. The site that was damaged in the earthquake before is being repaired, but there are surgeries being performed. Who was the hospital's canteen rented to? When I ask about these issues, this time it's not my area." he said. Whose field is this for God's sake? So when I ask questions about this Düzce, both ministries throw the ball to the crown. Now, is that in your field right now, right when you're here? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0313par0684	Since you're not a straight MP, it's not really your area either, but all the provinces of Turkey are our territory.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0312par0685	Mr. President, the 80th article of the Constitution says that the district where the MP is elected is a deputy of the entire Turkish Republic, not the province.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0313par0686	He's a Turkish MP. Mr. Agha, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0314par0688	Minister, after the coup attempt on July 15th, the homes and schools belonging to Fetullah have been seized by the state. The Ministry of Youth and Sports says that 800 homes have been seized, many of which are said to have been handed over to nearby foundations. While there are still no homes for tens of thousands of students, the transfer of these dorms to certain foundations rather than to YURTKUR, shows that the government still has failed to learn from the July 15 coup attempt. The government directs non-homeless students to these congregations. Isn't the government's most basic mission to find a place for these students in the government's dorms? Still, we don't know what logic it is to give up Fetullah and raise other congregations. Indeed, the government strengthens the other congregations as it removes one congregation from the state. I don't think it's possible to accept that either.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0313par0689	Mr. Tarhan, finally.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0315par0690	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're budgeting, we're going to ask the Finance Minister questions, no Finance Minister. The Minister of Health is here, let me ask the Minister of Health a question. Minister, the Fatih State Hospital, which continues construction in Gebze, is still not finished. Gebze, Darica, Meadow, we're a million in the daytime. We're having a lot of trouble with the ICU where there's a population of 1 million. There was promised a hospital in Çayırova. Is there an investment in the hospital in the 2017 budget?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0316par0693	Thank you. I promise the Minister to answer the questions. Mr. Recep Akdağ, Minister of Health.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0317par0696	My dear President, thank you very much. In particular, an important question has been asked about employment; what our government is doing or what it intends to do to increase employment in Turkey. I consider that a very important question because we're in a country where there's really a lot of young people, and it's very important to increase employment. Let me point out a few things. We did the International Labor Law, you know, and our Assembly carried out such an important law. In order to strengthen women's participation in the labor force, we have made many arrangements in favor of our women, both to increase demand for them and to facilitate their employment in terms of their own supply. We've strengthened the rights and rights of working women on maternity leave. For three years, we've brought 75,000 Turkish liras exceptions to the newly established youth. For the first time, we pay for each of our young people's jobs by the state. We've developed a flexible working model; remote work has been legally defined. We've expanded the operating area of private employment offices. We want to draw a manpower that's qualified with a turquoise card. This can increase investment and employment in Turkey. We tried to contribute to the activation of labour markets, excluding the income tax of five taxation periods of earnings in the operating of daycare centres. We've allowed the teaching staff to work at RD and design centers. We're strengthening the infrastructure of vocational and technical education. These are issues related to the activation of the labour market. Of course, on the other hand, we're trying to increase investment in certain parts of the country, in certain cities, in terms of attracting foreign capital and increasing investment in Turkey. One of them is the Charming Centers Programme in 23 counties that our prime minister announced in Diyarbakir. In 23 counties, where I'm a member of parliament, including Erzurum, where I'm elected MP, we'll be starting the Charm Centers Program very soon. We discussed the matter in detail at the Council of Ministers, and now the decision of the Council of Ministers has been issued. And I believe that these new investments and jobs in 23 attraction centers will help improve employment, while on the one hand, the region will greatly block migration. Since there was no higher education compensation for administrative staff, a valued MP has been asking questions on the bet. As you know, there has been an equality and improvements between the arrangements made in 2011 in terms of the financial rights of administrative staff. Thus, the making of differentialities between new regulations and institutions can create other problems. It's true that he's late, our congressman's question is right because he's had some problems with the contractor there. I personally followed the matter, and there was a transfer in Düzce, and most of the shortcomings were completed, and we plan to move all units within a month. When it comes to the canteen... the canteen is now being auctioned off in Turkey, Congressman. In the first term of our Change in Health, the canteens could be handed down by hospital chiefs and co-appointers in the finances, and now they're given open tenders. We plan to have the Fatih State Hospital completed and opened in 2017. Meanwhile, very recently, we and our National Defence Minister discussed and discussed the health issues of Alexei. This year, we also request that our Ministry of Development build a hospital in Çayırova. Thank you very much. We'll answer the other questions in writing.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit04spe0318par0706	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Article 14 is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0318par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill. The commission and the government are in place. MADDE 15- (1) This Law; A) Turkish Grand National Assembly President of Turkey, B) The President's Secretary-General of the presidency C) Chairman of the Court of Justice, ) The ministers and Finance Minister concerned with their provisions for public administration under the general budget, d) The ministers and Finance Minister, whose provisions for private budgetary administrations are related or related to the administrations, e) Their own boards and/or presidents of regulatory and regulatory institutions, f) Minister of Finance of other provisions, It'll make you walk. The first word for the groups on the matter is from Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0319par0019	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised to present the views of the National Movement Party on the 15th article of the 2017 central management budget. I hereby salute the grand jury. Of course, it's in place, it's gone. It's an important event for who's going to run it, and it's detailed with this stuff. Now, here, of course, the final item of the budget, as a result, has to be said in general. This job, first of all, needs to be kept serious. The mid-term programme, the mid-term fiscal plan, the budget call, the investment scale; the budget law, which is an infrastructure that all come out on the same day, is not very serious. We know that the investments have to come out in advance, and then we have to get the sentence in order to get everyone ready. These are the simple rules of the budget. The mid-term program, essentially, was the end of May, at the beginning of June. An unrelated authority came out under a decree of the law -- its law is also debated -- although the opposition also helped; it was arranged, but cannot be brought here on time. Now, this is the 2017 programme; this is the 2017 Program General Economic Targets and Investments; this is the Central Future Program, the Basic macroeconomic and Financial Goals. There's some of the numbers in there that have a tensor on each other. Come on, I've been through this. Mr. Secretary, yesterday you renewed a series of national incomes, a celebration of homes, incomes on one side, expenses on the other. The proportions of the national income you're writing here are in a very different shape there. Savings are coming from 13.5 per cent to 25 per cent. The difference in spending, the difference in revenues... at least there's a timing to do something like explain it, like a science, and everybody reads it, understands it, and they're able to compare it. With this budget law, we're going to go against the day with this program -- let's do what we're doing, and so on -- we're going to tell the guy that our investment is this big, that's what this is. You're going to say this once, you're going to give the foreign investor confidence beyond stability. We've never seen anything like it. It's not a last-minute thing. So how does savings come from 13.5 percent of national income to 25 percent the next day, and how does that work out? You explain it, everybody knows, everybody sees, everybody sees what they do in that sense. Now, you've got three OVPs, mid-term program, malfunctioning, no close-up. Growth in this budget dropped to 3.2 per cent in 2016, you withdrew it to 4.4 in 2017, some of your ministers are still talking about 5. Your estimates are high, up from 4.5 to 5. Now, the same day -- I just told you -- the investment scale, the budget call, the mid-term program, the mid-term financial plan -- whatever God gave you. The mid-term program and budget program, they've all been tough, these numbers have changed. So the average dollar you calculated went dry, and now it's 3.5. When you look at what happened in the 2,90s, when you look at the account you did at 3,18, I make it very clear that no account will hold the book, and that will not be disclosed. Why? Your dollar assumption is troubled, your budget sizes are troubled, the change in the national income size accounts... now, you're going to be 47 billion short in the budget in 2017, except for the privatisation there, it's going to go up to 60 billion. Inflation will remain at 6.5 per cent, you say. The exchange rates have increased by 15 per cent a month. Is that a reflection or not? It's about to, it's already reflected. Cari turned her nose up again open, going up. Anyway, it wasn't your effort to reduce the current deficit. Why? It was largely due to low oil prices. Because when you were high in the account book, you were doing it because it was open-and-out, and it was open-ended, including oil. Now you can't do that anymore. Public finance discipline is disappearing. You said extra interest, the most you trusted, the most boasted about, turned this negative, went uninterested after many years. The movement in the wolf, the international economic developments will bring inflation up, it seems. You say inflation stays here, but not everyone believes it. This budget, really, is going to fix these two gaps, and it's going to make you grow, you said. Now there's a deficit in the budget, the current's going up, and the growth's coming down. I'm pretty sure the government doesn't believe what you're saying either. Because we're seeing them, we're seeing them here, we're seeing them outside, he knows where he's going. Now, in the domestic world of savings, 25 per cent in the world, 21.30 in the developed world, 31 in the developing world, 13.5 in the developing world. I just told you, God bless you, the day before yesterday TÜK took care of it, it went up 25 percent. In fact, another authority must be given to the TÜİK. They must decide on the exchange. Because they're rectifying it backwards however it is, but it's not possible when you look at it. The manufacturing industry is out of business, and it's a real pain in the ass. The foreign capital entry went from $50 billion to $20 billion. Your goal of unemployment has always been more than 10 per cent since you arrived. Even if it was rare that it fell to the single digit, the couple became very close to the digit, and now it has reached 11.5. Besides, you're not predicting a mid-term program, you're not predicting improvements, improvements. 6 million unemployed on the street, according to the OVP, you say you're not going to deal with it; that's what it is. Tourism has gone upside down. Anyway, if the Minister of Finance was here, I'd say to him, "Let's make it a political favor," you're bagging revenues. It's really a bag of laws, you get along, it collects. Now, soon you'll be throwing a multithesis everywhere. You give them the staff, you put the AKP mayors in charge, my multez, they collect. That's the way it feels, or why are we putting tax laws in there? We take this much out of the bag, we give this much, we're done. You're saying to the man: "Come, you'll have to increase your math in this statement, and I won't look into you from the past years." Is that a bargain, Mr. Secretary? He's a real troubled citizen. You're going, you're going down your throat, so give me that much. There's nothing understandable about that. Look, the production's getting tight. Both the investment and production of the manufacturing industry are troubled. Now, the day before yesterday, we said, "You're taking down interest with interest, with mobilization." You've put beef in the interest of state banks, you know, what you've done, don't compete with each other. After the President left, you couldn't manage it, so everyone started opening up a dollar account, and a really important part of it went there. And the weird thing is, there are trustees, you know, who get assigned. I don't know if the trustees are turning these companies into dollar bills, whether they're turning them into TLs, or whether they're being hand-to-hand outposts, I don't know if you've heard of them. Oh, and now this. The police cars couldn't cross the bridge because there was no money, and they were high on dollars, which came out, which is a problem. Let's hope for the best. And that's the end of the clock. We hope that the budget will be good, that it will be good, that it will be good for the country, and that it will be good for the country. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0320par0038	Thank you. The second word on behalf of the groups is for Peoples' Democratic Party Group's MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman. Here you go, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0321par0042	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group regarding Article 15 of the 2017 Budget Law Bill. I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to first address a few issues concerning the national campaign that Mr. President expressed or declared yesterday. During his meeting with the muhtars yesterday, he stated that he had declared a national mobilisation throughout the country, and that he had declared a national mobilisation against all of them, after counting many organisations, without mentioning names with all the others, a number of uncertain, perhaps uncertain areas, perhaps political areas, the group, by the name, the manner, whatever its method, he had declared a national mobilisation against all of them. Of course, national mobilisation, or rather, in terms of mobilisation and war declarations, is clear on what legal, constitutional or legal basis. Mr. President, the Constitution says it states this declaration on the basis of Article 104, but there is no decree in Article 104 of the Constitution that gives the President the authority to declare mobilisation. Therefore, there is a special law on mobilisation and declaration of war. Therefore, according to Law 2941, the Council of Ministers, not the President; on the day it is announced in the Official Gazette, it is presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the approval of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is required. Come on, this hasn't been implemented, we're used to it; Mr. President is actually implementing all the applications. Here, he's operating in accordance with the presidential system by overstepping his authority in the Constitution, we call it, in effect. There's a lot of similar, actual activity. We'll take that as a matter of fact, but it's even more serious: the president's chief consultation requires an explanation of this declaration of mobilisation and when he interprets this declaration of the President's campaign, he states that this call is not legal, but a national act. Now, what do we know about this national behavior and how do we measure the framework of national behavior? For example, is this recent, June 7th or June 7th, near 400, the district of the People's Democratic Party, the attack on our borough agencies this national action? Or, for example, are the announcements of the city of Skopjedar that represent the caliphate, or rather, call for the caliphate openly, a national act? Or will we immediately accept the murder call of a university professor who is a member of the AKP or a supporter, to the Alevis and the Jaferi Shias, as a national mobilization act? Who's going to put the measure on this? Or would it be possible for all people except AKP voters and AKP supporters to express an anti- AKP statement, to bring a criticism, to be attacked, lynched in the framework of national behavior as a result of a demonstration, a march? These, of course, are entirely left to the government's discretion, to the President's discretion. For example, it's very easy for a socialist person to criticize the President; it can be brought before prosecutors as a DHKP-C or as a member of any illegal left-wing organisation under a report held by AKP police, but asking for caliphency, asking for caliphate elections, asking for caliphate, for example, will not be considered as a member of the EPA or ISIS. So, how do we determine this national behavior? Or a lecturer who called for a massacre against the Alevis and the Jaferis, which, according to me, is a so-called lecturer -- a supporter and a openly AKP fan, a columnist who defends AKP's column -- in what national behavior do we put it in? Dear friends, through abstract concepts, through uncertain concepts, it means that we should take this country into a civil war, into civil conflict, to see everyone outside of a sect, or through ethnic origin, or outside of the ideological structures within its own party view. Tomorrow, in the event of an attack on any party other than the AKP's voter, its manager, it's my national behavior. What do we say to the attackers who will defend him? Now, dear friends, I don't want to pass through without expressing a point in all of this. In particular, yes, many of our fellow MPs expressed the drama, the violence that took place today in Aleppo. That's very true. In Syria, I also strongly condemn all attacks on non-war elements, not just Muslims -- especially Muslims -- who have been brutalized, massacred during the civil war in Syria, who, regardless of ethnic origin, are all terrorists, all of whom, all of whom, all of whom, all of whom, all of whom, are armed groups, all of whom, regardless of what ethnic origins -- civilians, children, children, and non-war elements -- but I must remember that right now, the basic defense argument of the Bezar Assad government that is experiencing this drama is:: all of them who are trapped in the State are terrorists, all of them, all of them, all of them, and they need to be slaughtered. This shows that all antidemocratic governments, all dictatorial systems, or the common rhetoric of all governments that have ignored democracy. In this country, when civilians were being massacred, while we were shouting over and over from this bench, there were civilians in Cizre, Şırnak. When we said, unfortunately, we were faced with the same expression: all those who were trapped there are terrorists. I remember, I even remember showing a picture of a child from here, and a member of our AKP desks reacted to what was he doing there? What was he doing there? But that boy was trapped in his own home, and unfortunately that boy was killed in the Cizre conflict.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0322par0049	What's the terrorist doing in his house?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0321par0050	Dear friends, these words are not enough. Look, today alone, the European Court of Human Rights has asked Turkey to defend 34 applications for the events of Cizre. Let me make this very clear to you that he wants to defend himself. One, illegal killings. Look, the European Convention on Human Rights, which we signed, the Court of Human Rights of Europe, which is the court of the European Court of Human Rights, where we accept its authority, has made it very clear that the right to life is being destroyed in violation of the law, unlawful killing. Again, what's a second defense? Look, there are no measures necessary to preserve the right to live. But the third is, perhaps, what he wants is for the applicants to be trapped in their homes for a long time, the government has declared a curfew for four months and taken hostage... and a fourth issue is abuse, torture, persecution. Dear friends, we need to be sincere, what were we doing in Syria without solving problems in our own country? ISIS and AKP terror are two terrorist organizations born during the AKP's rule; one of them is the AKP's... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...out of control, the other is a terrorist organization supported by the AKP. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0323par0056	Where did the PKK come from?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0324par0057	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0325par0058	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0324par0059	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0325par0060	The testimony is obvious; it's an open taunt to our group.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0324par0061	What did he say?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0325par0062	He claims that terrorist organizations have come out of our hearts.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0326par0063	Maybe it came from somewhere else.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0325par0064	However, he made statements, such as the DHKP-C... that a member of the AKP had made a report and did not do it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0327par0065	Here you go, Mr. Mush. I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0328par0070	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, first of all, have had a statement here highlighting national unity and unity in the country aimed at terrorist organisations. The ones who should be disturbed by this are terrorist organizations, and no one should be disturbed except for terrorist organizations, because this statement states that the entire nation must present a national stance, a national will against terrorist organizations and terrorists. We need to underline that once in a while. Look, valued lawmakers, ethnic politics, sect-based politics are a method in the AK PARTI era that we absolutely and certainly do not accept and never meet our party principles. Had it been so, we would not have been able to get votes from all the provinces of Turkey and bring the MP and the representative from all near to this Parliament. Another, valued lawmakers, I have repeated this over and over again today, and again, memory is damaged by five Aprils: Aleppo is a murderous dictator who commits massacres and it is very unfortunate to compare the operations that Turkey has done against a terrorist organization trying to establish sovereignty within its borders; it is not acceptable. Within Turkey, it is the process of clearing the territory of the sovereignty that those terrorist organisations are trying to establish for themselves and bringing the citizens' habitat back to them. So, why can't you say a word here to these terrorists who use citizens as human shields, break into citizens' homes, break through walls, go from buildings to buildings? Those terrorists didn't use them as human shields against the security forces? Why can't you put your attitude here, clearly, at the time and now? Dear lawmakers, if a criminal is to be sought here, it is the PKK terrorist organization and its supporters who are there to use our citizens as human shields and enter into their privacy, trying to establish their domain. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's not forget that. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0329par0078	Thank you, Mr. Mush. Mr. Adıyaman...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0330par0080	Mr. President, Mr. Group Vice President has told me the things I do not express.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0329par0081	What did he say to you?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0330par0082	Sir, for example, I'm not an organization like DAESS, PKK, DHKP-C, but others that are in the sequel are unclear, so the police...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0331par0083	The police didn't use it. There was no such thing as police. There's no bullying here, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0332par0084	Look at the reports, Mr. President, the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0330par0085	...this other sentence is not concrete, it is not clear, so, for example, it can take the HDP, CHP, or DP voter from any organization tomorrow. On the contrary, he made a comment as if I were defending them.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0333par0086	Okay, well, if we're all going to condemn terrorist organizations.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0334par0087	Now condemn the PKK.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0335par0088	He can't condemn, he can't condemn.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0336par0089	The PKK also condemns it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0337par0090	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0338par0092	Mr. President, read while I count. After counting the names of the organization, the others, and in whatever capacity...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0339par0093	What others? What terrorist organizations? Count the organizations again.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0338par0094	It goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and The day after tomorrow, I claim again, that everyone who is not a party to the AKP should be arrested, or arrested, or arrested, or put in prison, or silenced... as journalists, academics, are always arrested with a label, one.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0340par0095	Traitors enter prisons, no one else enters.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0338par0096	Secondly, do you know what Mr. Deputy President of the Group, right now, Assad says to cover up the drama in Aleppo? We don't touch civilians. The terrorists are shielding civilians there. I say we remember that sentence from somewhere.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0340par0097	Name that terrorist, name him.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0338par0098	It's a fact. Did we forget about Mother Taybet, the children?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0340par0099	Have you forgotten Yasin Börür, you shot the doctor, the fires you fired on the ambulances?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0338par0100	Did we forget about the civilian people we played here in this House during the phone calls? This government and the AK PARTY group cannot destroy civilians by denying that they were killed in Cizre, Şırnak.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0341par0101	Ask the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) about him!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0338par0102	It's a reality, it's a fact, and I just gave examples of the European Court of Human Rights.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0342par0103	Give me the PKK, I'm serious.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0338par0104	I mean, what we're saying is that, of course, we consider Assad's practices violent. Wherever in the world, we strongly condemn not only Muslims, but any attack against humanity, against civilians. It could be on the other side of the world, in Africa, in the North Pole, but we're Muslim, Christian, we're not making that distinction. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Any attack on man, on civilians is brutal. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0343par0109	Wasn't Yasin Börür a civilian?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0344par0110	Mr. President, this is a stance against terrorist organizations, as far as the PKK, the DHKP-C, the MLKP are concerned, and I want to stress that in particular. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0343par0112	He couldn't say the name again, I'm afraid he couldn't. He can't say PKK, it's amazing!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0345par0113	Yes, they're all a terrorist organization, and we're condemning every terrorist organization and every terrorist act they've ever done once again. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Denizli MP Melike Basmacı. Here you go, Mr. Bassman.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0346par0121	Mr. President, my dear Regents, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the executive clause, which is the 15th article of the budget. Since the government has done very well to run the year 2016, we'll call the 2017 budget "No." Because the 2017 budget is not prepared to solve the problems in the economy or to stop the bad going; this budget is not prepared to close the government's debt to the public and private sector or to end unemployment or to raise its growth goals, so we will say no to all and to each ministry. O Minister of Agriculture of AKP, for importing grapes when the grapes of Çal, Buldan, were not sold; for importing fruits from the land of Chivril, Arapayam, the diamonds of Honaz, the melons, the cherries; for importing tobacco from 38 countries, when the tobacco of Beybany, and the tobacco of the south is not sold; for importing tobacco from the land, because you have not been able to produce one and a half million tons of cotton from 38 countries. (HPP clapping in rows) We're not going to approve the Department of Agriculture budget because you increased the bait, dropped the milk, poisoned animalism, and poisoned the meat. Minister of National Education of the AKP, since you can't find enough money to build palaces and build dorms... (HPP clapping in rows) Because you make kids run around like racehorses, YGS, KPSS, TEOG, because you fill children's minds with knowledge, not morality, but superstitions. (H.P.'s "Bravo" sounds, applause...) We will not approve the budget of the Ministry of National Education because you do not appoint our new graduate teachers because you do not give our retired and working teachers the dignity they deserve and the fee they deserve.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0347par0126	We don't take wages. Nor do we!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0346par0127	O Minister of Justice of the AKP, for destroying the country's legal system in the middle of the night, by appointing men not with merit, but with an interview; for trying to impose laws on rapists in the middle of the night...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0347par0129	We're not going to the hospital. Say it!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0346par0130	...because you created and created victims from me, not by reason, not by conscience, but by bias, is the basis of justice. We will not approve of your budget because you have made the philosophy of justice.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0347par0131	We don't cross divided roads. Nor do we!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0346par0132	O Minister of Economy of AKP, for supporting and increasing the numbers of the markets and malls that took their jobs from the tradesman by doing and selling everything but cutting hair and sewing...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0347par0133	We're not taking the fast train.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0346par0134	... Since you can't stand up to antidamping laws, because you've changed account methods and reduced inflation overnight and increased per capita income, you're taking potatoes from markets with dollars? We don't approve your budget because you're playing with our minds.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0348par0136	Did you shop at the market?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0346par0137	O Minister of Foreign Affairs of the AKP, we do not approve the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget because you have made quarrels with almost all the countries of the world; because you have produced policies of the wrong Syria, Cyprus, islands; because you have sent soldiers to lands that we don't know about; because you sent soldiers according to their people. O Minister of Family and Social Policy of the AKP, since women cannot walk freely in the streets without getting beaten up; because women cannot continue to train one-third; because women's violence has increased 1.400 per cent in 14 years, and prostitution has increased 790 per cent, we do not approve of your budget. [[Applause from CHP rows]] O Minister of Health of the AKP, health is poor. When you say hospitals are rich, because patients can't even afford their medicine; because you look sick at the speed of water dripping out of the tap.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0349par0141	There's a lot of drug money down there, and you're wrong. The medical bills have dropped a lot, and the pharmacists are in trouble now.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0346par0142	We don't approve of your budget because the paramedic, radiologist, nurses, doctors who work in the hospital can't get their rights and duties.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0349par0144	They're dropping every week.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0346par0145	O Minister of Labor and Social Security of the AKP, if you promise pensioners to retire from your age...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0350par0146	We did it, we did it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0346par0147	- For what you're doing? We're not going to approve your ministry because you're still trying to negotiate, even though the hunger limit is above minimum wage.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0351par0148	Look at the welfare level of a human being.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0346par0149	The Ministry of Forestry and Science, the Ministry of Technology of AKP, will not approve your budgets, but for a different reason.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0351par0150	We'll confirm it, we'll confirm it, relax.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0346par0151	Because in my country, forests have turned into concrete buildings, rivers into HES nests, tea has turned into sewers. There are two zones in my district, the Great Menderes and Dalaman are now disappearing. I mean, you don't actually need a budget, so everything happened. Like the Ministry of Science and Technology, our country has no scientists, no technology. So I don't think you need a budget either. In fact, we're going to say no to all of the budgets, you AKP MPs. Do you know who earns from this budget? A great king would change clothes from time to time and come among the people to measure his policies and effects. One of those days, the sultan changed his clothes and went to a coffee shop.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0352par0153	Once upon a time...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0346par0154	In the coffeehouse, everyone sees a man with a long face and a happy smile in front of him with a honey roll and a cup of coffee. He asks: "You must earn very well. The man says: I earn 2,000 lira, thanks to my king. The king asks: "Well, if your great king increases the people's taxes a little more, how much will you earn if he makes the people's working conditions heavier?" He says: "55,000.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0353par0155	Tell that to the CHP Group.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0346par0156	The Padishah would be surprised, if we tightened the seatbelts of the people a little longer. He would say: "The Padishah is angry, he thinks he's being mocked." The man says: "What do you do?" He says: "I am a coffin maker. Here, my friends, this budget only benefits the coffin maker, the grave stone maker, and the padishaha.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0354par0159	Recep Erdogan has been among the people for 40 years, among the people.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0346par0160	Because there are no workers in this budget, because there are no farmers in this budget, because there are no officers in this budget, there are no tradesmen.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0354par0161	He never left the public, Recep Erdogan. You're wrong. Find out if you don't know.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0346par0162	Because when you look at this budget, there's no incentive, there's a lot of taxes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0354par0163	You should join the public from time to time.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0346par0164	Dear Regents, Mr. President, from now on, please listen to what I have to say as a peace call or a prayer from a mother, not as a proxy.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0355par0165	Are you resigning from the CHP?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0354par0166	We have respect as mothers.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0346par0167	I'm asking you to listen for once. We are responsible for this country, and 550 of our MPs carry the burden of Turkish people, every child breathing in this country. And that's a mother's prayer. Let's all take off our party badges, let's put aside our labels together, let's leave our identities, our ethnicities, and the Great National Assembly of Turkey under the roof of everything, budget, economy, president, and let's talk about terrorism so that when we get out of here, no mother can look back and wonder why her child is late, and finish with the promise of the founding value of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk says that unity and unity conquer all but death. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0356par0170	Thank you, Mr. Bassman. The first word for his subjects belongs to Adıyaman MP İbrahim Halil Fırat. Here you are, Mr. Firat. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0357par0175	I approve of all ministries. Start by saying, "O CHP!"
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0358par0176	I approve. Mr. President, I have been sworn in on the 15th article of the 2017 Central Management Budget Act. I hereby salute your grand delegation and the General Assembly. In 2017, our budget is a budget that protects earnings and aims to grow, increasing the well-being of our citizens in 14 years, providing for services they need, giving resources to public services. We've always been transparent as the AK PARTY, and we've cared a lot about accountability since day one. For 14 years, we've continued to practice and produce value. Today, we are a country with the 18th largest economy in the world, the 7th largest economy in Europe. The AK PARTY has always taken its power from the public. Let man live so that the state may live. We have acted with understanding, and have become a strong, respected, and influential country. Despite all the negativity and obstacles, Turkey has achieved significant success in many areas over the past 14 years, with the AK PARTI authorities. We'll all work hard to build the new Turkey, and we'll make a whole new success. Congressmans, we see that there are forces trying to prevent a developing and developing Turkey. We are aware of the games that have been played on our country. We shouldn't come to the games of in and out of temptation and hypocrisy today. Our people stood up to the oppressor and the tyrant. On the night of July 15th, the ruling, the opposition, all of us, as lawmakers, were all under this roof. With the bombing of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the will of the nation, our nation's will, unity and brotherhood were targeted. The noble and honorable sons of this country have all called these treacherous coup attempts by terrorists members of the terrorist organization. We will not fall into the trap of those who want to lead our country into chaos. PKK, DEAŞ, PYD, YPG, DHKP-C and CHP terrorist organizations are all in the same hands. All these organisations are networks of evil and terror that have been activated against the growth and progress of Turkey. Those who carry water into the mill of temptation serve themselves, not the truth. Instead of taking a few clowns seriously and giving up on our future, we'll see how we're on the right track and work harder. Bloody organizations who hit the rock in the July 15 coup attempt seek to turn the people of Turkey against each other, lead the people to hatred and hatred. They won't make it. Look, on the night of December 10th, the night of Beşiktas, who deeply wounded our entire country, 44 lives were killed in a vicious, vicious and despicable terrorist attack, and around 150 people were injured. To protect the honor of this nation, I give my thanks and thanks to our fellow martyrs and security guards, God's mercy, our veterans. Traitorous terrorist organizations, subcontractors of foreign forces, have recently suffered heavy damage. They can no longer tolerate Turkey's progress towards becoming a superpower, thinking we will submit to such treacherous and treacherous attacks. Yeah, they're not gonna make it. What they forget is that they are bound together, like the flesh and nails. This nation has always paid back with the same amount of treachery and humiliation. We will stand against those who oppose our country's unity, our brotherhood, our democracy, they have no flag, no state, no country. But if necessary, we all die standing, not kneeling. No gang of traitors and my organization will stop us from serving this holy nation from our blessed path. No one will be able to take us away from our horizons 2023 and beyond, in unity and brotherhood, in the ideal of strong Turkey, to put this nation and the state back. Today, deep and sneaky games are being played on both our territory and our country, and the future of our country is being blackened and the seeds of hypocrisy are being planted. The long-standing drama of humanity in Aleppo has now reached unbearable proportions, and the conditions of life have become increasingly difficult. Human drama is happening in Aleppo, a pile of debris. Yeah, there's a massacre going on right next to us. Our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who sided with the oppressed against all persecutions and injustices, is working hard to ensure a truce. Where are you, United Nations? Where are you, so-called human rights advocates? In this drama of humanity in Aleppo, O Allah, the world has forgotten us, and give us a place with you. Keep silent the cry of Aleppo, who says, "But on all accounts there is also a reckoning of the Almighty and the Wise God." Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish that the massacre in Aleppo would stop immediately and this pain would stop, and that the budget would be a blessing, and I thank all those who have done it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0359par0187	Thank you, Mr. Firat. The second and final speaker is İzmir MP Özcan Purçu. Here you go, Mr. Purçu.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0360par0191	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. First of all, I offer God's mercy to our brothers who died in Beşiktas in Istanbul, and my condolences to their families, and I condemn all terrorist organizations from here. [[From CHP, AK PARTI and MHP rows (Bravo) voices, applause]] Our country doesn't deserve these deaths, my friends, our country doesn't deserve these days, our citizens don't deserve these days. But I'm angry with the government. Why can't you guys stop it, why can't you stop it? How are we sitting here? People die every day in this country, we have martyrs every day. They have children, and their mothers and fathers bind stones to their hearts. It'll haunt them for the rest of their lives. Therefore, to the government immediately, immediately, and say, "Do whatever it is you're going to do, take precautions, my friends. You're the cure for this, you're running this country.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0361par0196	You will support the government.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0360par0197	If you're looking for a contribution from us, we're always behind you as the Republican People's Party. We're at your disposal 24 hours on counterterrorism, and we won't even go home, but do your duty. I'd like to invite you on this matter. Guys, we're talking about the budget. If you count unemployment, 11 percent, registered unemployment, reckless unemployment, maybe 20 percent, but unfortunately, we don't care. Twenty out of 100 people don't bring home bread today, guys, figure out 80 million. The government must take care of this immediately. Why doesn't he take it? The Ministry of Family and Social Policy's budget is $24.3 billion; 20.5 billion is for social benefits. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy -- see, the Ministry of Social Policy (also known as the Ministry of Social Policy) -- is not the Ministry of Social Aid. The more you give out welfare, the more you fail. (CHP cheers) That's how the whole world does it. This isn't about success, friends, it's about poverty. If his budget's up, poverty's up. Don't brag about it. You need to develop social policy, improve social policy that prevents poverty. If you don't increase social policy, it goes like this, this is how the country turns into gangrene. The economy's stopped, you guys, you're going to produce, you're going to turn yourself into production. No production. You can make your way, it's the government's duty, you can build a bridge; don't brag about it. You're going to open a factory, you're going to direct the citizen to production. You guys are going to develop agriculture, tourism, animalism. If you're looking to contribute to this, the Republican People's Party is here 24 hours behind you, but we don't see it. We're getting poor every day, friends, and as we get poorer, dollars go up, euros go up, the world's economic order comes down on us. The Strategy Document, the Roman Strategy Document, is almost there. Look, the Minister said there yesterday: "We are working on the Roman strategy. You are not doing any work, Minister. You haven't even budgeted, the child was born dead. What's a plan of action, you say? I'll make my move, work the field. Where's the money? Where's the money? The Ministry didn't make any money! The child was born dead, don't fool us. Don't fool the novels, enough. (CHP clapping) That's enough. Guys, seriously, don't do this whole trick thing. Look, there's 3.5 million Roma, that's the official number. Look, all the Roma are waiting. There is close to 90% unemployment, a severe lack of education. The Minister is here. Madam Secretary, the SIROMA Project came to the Roma from the European Union for 8.5m euros. The Ministry of National Education is not following this SIROMA Project. The project started in November last year, and there's still nothing, folks. A year has passed, 5m euros have been spent, will be spent, not even in the Roma neighborhood. The money's going, Mr. Secretary, but the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, has done nothing. There was action in June, did he, according to the strategy document? There was field work, field work in December; let the Ministry come out, see if he did or not. He didn't, no, I'm following, no, no, no. The SIROMA Project started last year in November, a year ago, nothing. No one's coming to Roman neighborhoods. Your novels have flown 5 million euros. The poor, the poor, the children have rights there. Minister of Education, I'm asking the Minister of National Education, and the Ministry of Education is in the project, but we understand that they don't follow; the Ministry of Labor and Social Security is the same; the Ministry of Family and Social Policy is the same. There's nothing on either project, they don't know. The Strategy Document... the Minister said: there is a budget. There is no budget. Don't make the European Union budget look like it's in the Strategy Document, friends, please. Roma unemployment, education, housing are in dire straits. Take immediate precautions on this matter. Enough, I swear, we're citizens of this country, that's enough, that's enough! I'm standing here standing tall, helping everyone. Have the Ministry call me, and I'll come, and we'll do it if there's any Roman work to be done. Look, our housing problem is on the line, our unemployment problem is on the line, but no way, even though it's written in the Action Plan, you're not doing it. The Minister spoke there without knowing. Please follow these. Let the Ministry of Family and Social Policy take immediate precautions. Let the Ministry of National Education continue his work, let him do it. I thank you, all of you, with respect, with love.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0362par0211	Thank you, Mr. Purçu. Let's get you in here, after this lovely conversation, Mr. Bridgel will be waiting for you. Congratulations. May we all be his followers.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0363par0214	Mr. President, we'd like to congratulate our friend.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0362par0215	We've got Özcan Bey here. Look, he gave a nice speech, according to him, friends, according to your speech. Congressmans, this concludes the conversation. Now, we're going to do a question-answer on matter. Mr. Bridge, get back in the system. I promise Mr. Aydın, I'll get back to you. Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0364par0220	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Finance Minister, but he's not here. Last week, Mr. Prime Minister announced a package of these supports -- 50,000 liras, 12 months free of charge, no interest, and a loan will be given through KOSGEB. It's about 750 million now, but what criteria and who will be given to 780,000 KOSGEB members, which are registered to 780,000 KOSGEB, and when we divide it into that 50,000, it's 2 percent. How are you going to determine this 2% from the total member? What about the criteria here? Because right now, all the COSGEB buildings are lined up, and the system's out, but it's at 4:00, 5:00 a.m., citizens. I want this cleared up.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0365par0223	Mr. Bridgel...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0366par0224	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, Mr. Finance Minister isn't here, but the bureaucrats are here. And I'm guessing that within the information provided by the bureaucrats, Mr. Minister of National Education will respond. Minister, now our province of Tekirdağ fulfills its obligation to the state and the province of Tekirdağ in Turkey is the 9th place in Turkey to pay taxes. The State of Tekirdağ, which pays taxes in the ninth place in 81 counties, receives a 50th share in the state's allocation of public investments, but shares in public investments per capita in 81 counties, in response to a motion by the Ministry for a question. Of course, we can't expect the same amount, but there is a right, there is justice. The government must not accept its responsibility and obligation by paying public investments in the rank of 75. What do you intend to do to solve this?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0367par0227	Thank you. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0368par0229	Thank you, Mr. President. This is not the right for administrative staff to receive a share of the grant for academic staff development at newly established public universities. Does the government have a government's work on the benefit of administrative personnel from the development grant? How much has the academic incentive budget been paid so far? In what areas did the university pay for academic incentives? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0369par0232	Mr. Lightning... no. Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0370par0234	Mr. Secretary, yesterday I mentioned a book from a book by the AKP municipality, a book full of fantasies distributed by the municipality of Kütahya, an immoral book. Many AKP people agreed with me on this matter. Today, I was informed of a new book by Pamukkale Municipality -- again AKP-li -- a book of fantasies called marriage and privacy, unfortunately. It says: "Bale is the devil's furnace, theatre is the devil's den." Women shouldn't go to sports and parks. The more you beat her, the more she'll love you, the more she'll want you. Children can be married in warm climates to the south at the age of 10 or 12. A book that is distributed by the municipality to married couples, newly married couples, such as things that are immoral. Furthermore, a Koran is being distributed, but it is not the suppression of the Dianet, but a book by the Hayrat Neschiyat, known for its proximity to the community of Said Nursi, that leads people to sects. As Minister of National Education, what are you going to do about it, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0369par0235	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0371par0236	Mr. Secretary, after years of work, there has been a serious reduction in the salaries of retired teachers. There is a huge difference between a teacher's pension and a teacher's salary, who is retired because the extra tuition is not reflected in pensions and the extra tuition is not reflected in the pensions they pay for their overtime. Many of our teachers are eligible for retirement due to this current wage difference, but are unable to retire due to the country's socioeconomic conditions and family economies. Will the economic conditions of our country take into account the removal of the victims and the incentive of retired teachers to promote the retirement process and to open space for new teachers, will you have a study of raising additional indicators of our teachers to 3,600? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0369par0238	Finally, Mr. lion...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0372par0239	I'm asking the Home Secretary, we've just learned that there have been calls to the hilafe from inside the Skopje Municipality's vehicle. Have you launched an investigation into the calls of a caliphate from a city vehicle under the authority of the President of Skopjedar of the Republic of Turkey, which is ruled by the secular republic? Do you intend to dismiss the mayor of Skopjedar, who has helped to eliminate the secular republic and to change the regime? Will the city staff who did this be suspended? Do you intend to send a statement to all municipalities so that such actions and procedures will never happen again? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0369par0241	Thank you. Now, to answer the questions, I leave the word to the Minister of National Education, Mr. Ismet Yilmaz Bey. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0373par0244	Thank you. Mr. President, first, a member of our member of parliament has a demand that he should take as much as he pays for public investment, which is the ninth place in the province of Tekirdağ. In this regard, we try to bring the service to 81 provinces, regardless of the difference between one and the other, by considering the priorities of whichever province we need. Our claim is that we serve better than the past, but we also know that our provinces have the right to ask for better service. Hopefully, as Turkey's economy is better, as its national income increases, as our savings increase, as our exports increase, so will our provinces' share of these investments. Another question from our deputy says, "What do you think of a book on marriage and privacy in the city of Kütahya and the city of Pamukkale?" I swear to God, I'm a citizen who doesn't respect any book that doesn't fit into the age of science, whether we can read it or look at it. Everybody does. It's a mess, but the citizen has a scale. Everybody sings well, they sing badly, but we...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0374par0247	The city's handing it out, city hall. What are you going to do, what do you think?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0373par0248	Good brother, just like that. Look, we say that a citizen's eye is a scale. Who's doing what's right and what's wrong. Do you agree with what they say? You don't agree. The citizen disagrees.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0375par0249	What about Burdur's National Education Director, Burdur's National Education Director?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0373par0250	So, if the citizen doesn't participate, it's not worth anything, but if the citizen is involved, then we need to have a different opinion to see if we can think about it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0376par0251	What are you going to do, Minister?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0373par0252	But we don't honor any ideas that aren't age-appropriate, unscientific.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0376par0253	What are you going to do, Minister?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0377par0254	What about Burdur's National Education Director, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0376par0255	What are you going to do? You didn't answer my question.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0378par0256	Congressmans, please, you've asked. He's answering.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0379par0257	Another, as the teacher's salaries say, compared to the past... look, the latest report from OECD has been published. The OECD report says that if the teacher had said that his salary was better than the others, than his national income, then he would have received a share of his national income, it would not have been. Teacher's salaries are much better in Turkey than in national income." he says. In comparison to the past, teachers' rights are very... the report of the OECD. You bring them in when they're against us, it's about us in the OECD report. ▪ Teachers' additional tuition does not reflect on their pension? ▪ True, it does not. There's a demand in line with the 3600 additional indicators. What do you think? As Turkey's economic development progresses, as Turkey gets richer -- our teachers are the architects of Turkey's future -- as Turkey's economy develops, we will contribute to our efforts to make sure that they get a better share. Let me make this very clear: believe me, secular understanding also grew in Turkey during the AK PARTY. If tourism has gone up to 40 million, tourism facilities have increased... tourism, passing between cultures, amongst people, amongst other cultures in the international community, it also helps to get to know each other. WHEN the number of tourists came to Turkey before the EC PARTY was 9 million, we were at one time near 40 million, even if it had fallen, we are now over 20 million. Again, the percentage of female professors at the university is 29.5%; about 15% in the European Union. Look at her employment -- it's also in this book, Naci Bey'in, you know, in the House presentation -- her employment increased. Therefore, if women's employment increases, tourism increases, women's professors' employment increases, our citizens have the knowledge, the opinion, as the secularism is strengthened in Turkey. No one's faith, no one's clothes, no one's opinion. So in this country, no matter what the nation believes, the state has no right to define, determine, or determine the beliefs of any group. This right does not belong to the state, the citizen determines it himself. Another question is: Why are administrative staff not benefiting from the development grant? (The development grant is a payment paid only to academic staff in areas where there is a problem in the employment of teachers, socioeconomically. If given to administrative personnel, it would create a difference between the same titled personnel among the institutions, which is not what we want, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0380par0263	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0379par0264	Again, academic activity grant, academic staff according to activities...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0380par0266	Complete.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0379par0267	...a payment based on their academic activities based on their scores, which is not a payment for everyone. The grant of academic activity ranges from 879 Turkish liras to 185 liras, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0380par0269	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0381par0270	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0380par0271	Here you go, Mr. Bridge.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0381par0272	Now, in my question, I clearly said: "Do we consider it fair that Tekirdağ will receive a 75th share of the tax from the state? " That's not possible. He avoided my question with an answer in the form of "A." Actually, I'd have to take the bait, sir, but I'd like word on 60.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0380par0273	Mr. Bridgellu, let me promise you today's memory, but Mr. Secretary: we take into account the priorities and needs of each province. With 81, we invest in their needs and urgency. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0382par0275	The seaman is ranked 79.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0383par0276	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, I specifically said that there is a province, at the top point of the state, at the collection point of the state, and I said that this may not be the 9th province of the state, 81, has an obligation to serve 80 million people living in these provinces, of course it doesn't have to be 9 or 8 if it pays 8, but it doesn't have to be 8 if it pays taxes to the government in the 9th place, and at this point you have to feel responsible as a member of the government. I've asked you a question at the point where you need to do a few studies to eliminate this injustice, if necessary, but I think the answer from you is at a point where you don't have such an opinion, and I think the people of Tekirdağ have an opinion. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0384par0279	Thank you. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0385par0281	We are aware of our responsibility to 79 million and 81, and our citizen will consider it. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0384par0282	Tekirdağ will also be invested in the amount he needs.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0385par0283	Yeah, sure. Tekirdağ is within 81 provinces.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit05spe0384par0284	Yes, lawmakers, so the negotiations are complete. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. As such, the Articles of the Executive Budget Act of 2017 were adopted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. The open vote will be held tomorrow's merger after the final talks. Now, in accordance with the programme, we will discuss the articles of the 2015 Central Management Computation Act and vote on them, respectively. I will re-read the 1st article of the 2015 Central Management Final Account Act, and then submit it to your votes. CONGRATULATIONS OF THE MEMORY OF 2015 MADDE 1- (1) Adds to Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 5018, as shown in the 2015 Central Management Budget Law (A), dated 22/12/2014 and marked 2015; A) (I) Turkey's Lira, 464,163,399. B) (II) private budgetary administrations include 53,069,588,000 Turkish liras, 3.212.692,000 Turkish liras for regulatory and auditory institutions on the ruler of C) (III) The grant is granted. (2) The central administration, which has been added over the year by the power vested in by the Laws, is added to Law 5018, as shown in the final statements of the expense account; A) (I) The general budget of public administrations in 2015 totals 491,864,454,769,49 Turkish liras, B) (III) Special budgetary administrations total the budget costs of 2015 78,095,077,559,43 Turkish liras, C) (III) is a total of 3,037,046,230,62 Turkish liras, totaling the budget costs of regulator and auditory institutions for 2015. It's done as a matter of fact. (3) The central management of 2015 totalled the net budget costs of 506,305,092,576.61 Turkish Lira. I submit the first article to your votes, along with the tablets that were previously accepted: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I'm taking a thirty-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0384par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 41st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of 2015 Central Management Competitive Account Law Bill The commission and the government are in place. MADDE 2- (1) Centre for 2015 added to Law No. 5018, as shown in the rules marked by the Management Budget Law (B); A) (I) The income of the general budget on the ruler is 442,586,345,000 Turkish liras, B) (II) private budgetary administrations have a total of 53,683,296,000 Turkish liras, including 7.789,211,000 Turkish liras, 45,894,085,000 Turkish liras, and a total of 53,683,296,000 Turkish liras. C) (III) is a total of 3,212,692,000 Turkish liras, including 3.1942,33,000 Turkish liras in the editors and auditory institutions on the table. is estimated to be. (2) Central administration is added to Law No. 5018, as shown in the final income sheets; A) (I) The general budget on the ruler of 2015 totals the budget revenues of 466,679,074,745,44 Turkish liras, B) (II) Special budgetary administrations in 2015 have a total of 72,280,086,613,73 Turkish Lira, totalling the Turkish Lira's personal income, 57,034,370,892,19 Turkish Lira Treasure Aid, and a total of 72,280,086,613.73 Turkish liras. C) (III) The regulator and auditory institutions' annual budget revenues of 2015 3,509,051,145,27 Turkish liras are self-inflicted, totalling 2,529,411,145,27 Turkish liras, with the aid of the Treasury of 20,3360.000.00 Turkish liras, a total of 3,529,45,145,27 Turkish liras. It's done as a matter of fact. (3) The central management of 2015 totalled a net budget income of 482.779.899.561.53 Turkish Lira. The first word for the groups on the matter is for the nationalist Movement Party Group, along with Iconian MP Mustafa Kalaycı. Here you go, Mr. Kalay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0386par0021	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm going to start by expressing an intense request for my speech. There is a request for an extension on Law 6736; there are some who have failed to apply, and some who have failed to make their first installment. It is in the interest of both the Treasury and the citizens to make an arrangement for them, and I hope that this matter will be taken into consideration, and the necessary arrangement will be made. The substance we're interviewing includes budget revenues. The year 2015 budget revenues increased by 13.5 per cent from the previous year to 482.8 billion liras. The tax revenues of 84.5 per cent of these revenues are 407.8 billion dollars, and the remaining 75 billion dollars are other revenues. Tax revenues were increased by 15.7% in 2015. Tax revenues are expected to increase 10.3 per cent in 2016 and 13.6% in 2017. The government scoops it up, but doesn't even give it to pensioners and employees with spoons. Despite negative developments in the economy and the increasing cost of life, the increase in pensions and employees will be very inadequate, and 2017 will be a difficult year. Studies on minimum wage in 2017 are still under way. The minimum wage has been set for years, while the provisions of the Constitution and related legislation have been ignored, and the spending of a worker appointed by the TİK has not been taken into account. The explanations show that the situation will be the same again. In addition, many employees receive very low increases due to mandatory accession to the individual pension system. As the National Movement Party, we see the need for net minimum wage to be raised above the hunger limit, to provide transportation support for minimum-payers in large cities, not to be taxed on minimum wage, and the employee's minimum wage to be tax-free. The reduction of minimum wage will reduce the cost of the employer, as well as the reduction of the prima matrix. The minimum wage condemns the workers to misery. According to Turkish-İSK research, only food spending is required by a family of four as of November, so the hunger limit is $1,417, and the poverty limit is $4,512. According to this, the current minimum wage does not even cover the employees' food spending. The workers are in dire straitness of livelihood, and are in debt. Two days ago, the government increased national income by 20 per cent overnight, making people about $2,000 rich! I wonder if this wealth will never be made available to employees and pensioners. We expect them to do it by increasing their ability, minimum wage, and pensions, but we know that the government has never had the sense to give rights to pensioners and employees. Dear lawmakers, the pension is the only source of income for millions of people today. The pensioners, widows and orphans in our country are 11,66,000 people as of September. In January, the trades and farmers' pensions will be increased by 3.73 months of inflation -- an estimated 3.73 per cent, while the pension of pensioners will increase by 3 per cent. According to this, the pensioner's pension will increase to $39 a month, while the pensioner's pension will increase to 48 lira. Other pensions will generally increase around 50-60 liras. Retireds are said not to be crushed by inflation. Does the government know about the increases and the cost of living? Today, only electricity, gas and water bills and health cuts take away a significant portion of the pension. Retired people who don't have a home, can't afford to pay rent, can't even imagine buying a house. "Health services are free." They try, but pensioners don't even know what their salary is because of the examination, the price difference, and the cutbacks. As a matter of fact, the economy has grown, the national income has increased, we have prospered. Then why don't you retire your share of prosperity before you grow up? Why can't he take his share of the pension, the growing national income? You're only training the pensioner on official inflation and a low raise. The problem with pensioners is that they have trouble making ends meet. Retirement pensions aren't enough. Our pensioners can't make it through the month. The pensioners seek additional jobs to earn their living, even under negative circumstances to provide additional income. Everyone, including lawmakers, has been getting bank promotions for eight years, not pensioners. The government failed to pay the pensioners a bank promotion even though the pensioner promised. It kept the pensioners busy. And now it's announced that it's due next week and that it's left to the Prime Minister. The most complaints we get from pensioners are the inequality between their monthly lows and pensions. "I've paid more and more bonuses, but my pension is less and more. They're in pain. The government has promised a 100 lira raise, but some say $10. Some have received a $20 raise. Between workers, civil servants and tradesmen pensioners, there is an increasing risk of affluence imbalance and injustices on pensions. The inequality of pensions has been promised to be repaired, but unfortunately it hasn't. A partial increase has been made regarding former SEC pensioners, despite a commitment to BUG-KUR pensioners and post 2000 pensioners. With Law 5510 issued in 2008, the inequality in their pensions has increased, even more unequalised, especially since the welfare share of the pension has been reduced from 100 per cent to 30 per cent. As the National Movement Party, we would like to make arrangements for resolving the inequalities between pensions, to give pensioners a share of non-growth and to be paid a net minimum wage twice a year, and to call for the settlement of pensioners' problems. Dear MPs, the financial and social rights of public officials are determined by collective agreement. With the final collective agreement, public employees will receive a 4 per cent increase on 1/1/2017 by 3, 1/7/2017. The AKP government is manipulating public employees and pensioners by the hands of an ally union. In particular, the damage to pensioners and public employees suffered severe economic losses in 2014 and 2015 has not been resolved. In order to compensate for past inflation losses, employees and pensioners must be given a improvement increase. Some additional payments to public employees under various names are not subject to bonuses and are not reflected for pensions. It's a contradiction in the private sector that a world of administrative fines are being fined for showing low wage revenue, while the public's lower income for its own employees. With that respect, all additional payments to public employees must be made immediately to be reflected for the pension. Problems with private service compensation for public employees must be resolved, injustices in additional indicators and additional payments must be dealt with. Those who have previously retired from public office have been unable to receive a pension in exchange for their services over 30 years, applying for a trial. The bill for paying bonuses for more than 30 years of public servants must be added to the provision of an upgrade in the bonus, and the bill must be enforced immediately, preventing the pensioner from crawling in courts. The issues reached by consensus must quickly be brought to the agenda for the implementation of the Public Staff Advisory Board. For those who have not taken advantage of a degree from public officials, the provision must be made to give a degree in order to compensate for the current inequality. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0387par0044	Thank you, Mr. Kalayci. The second statement, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, belongs to Bitlis MP Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0388par0048	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge to present the views and proposals of the People's Democratic Party on the 2nd Article of the 2015 Central Management Computation Act. I salute the General Assembly and the public. Dear lawmakers, one of the most serious problems in Turkey is injustice in income distribution. Today, tax pens, such as income and institutional tax, are reduced in the budget, while the proportion of indirect taxes, such as VAT, or OTV, is over 70 per cent. The pressure on indirect taxes such as OTV, VAT, without the distinction of rich and poor is also a clear violation of the Article 73 of the Constitution's tax work. Article 73 is clearly obliged to pay taxes according to the financial power of each person to meet public expenses. In practice, they are absolutely incompatible. Indirect taxes from many expenditures such as food, fuel, and automobiles have increased by 140 per cent in five years, and have the largest share of all tax species. The special consumption tax increased by 2015 to over 12 billion expected by the state. If we compare 2013, the indirect tax share in Turkey is 69 per cent and the average of European Union countries is around 27 per cent. The ruling party continued to crush small-income citizens in the economic system by increasing the EVT to cover rising budget deficits. However, the main thing is to increase income and institutional tax. Small producers have created a structure that is supported by multinational companies, a large investor, who are crushing the economic and financial market. Citizens who already live on the economic edge of hunger and poverty have been made unable to breathe as if by a higher indirect and direct tax rate that has been aggravated. The tactics of the oppression and exploitation of wild capitalism are masterfully staged. As the system continues to automatically support the person who has the money, structural arrangements and long-term infrastructure are created for the continuation of the situation. Tax applications are not treated fairly among income groups, and tax cuts are made for those who are clearly rich and have money. This country's farmer, its peasant, its workers are left with a thin margin between life and death. Look, I'll give you a small example: When higher income groups people usually buy value tax on gold, rubies, emeralds, and other small-income citizens and farmers receive a tax on basic needs such as food, clothing, diesel, they go higher than 18 percent. The yacht and ship owners are given diesel for less than the market, while the farmer is given market prices. What kind of fair tax system is this? The capital owners were supported by large government support, while the employee's load was increased and his earnings were cut off. The worker is taxed on 33.5 per cent of the employee's earnings, including insurance premiums, unemployment insurance premiums, income tax, stamp tax. Workers and workers are pushed under the hunger line. In a situation where income distribution and tax policies are so unfair, the government must produce and implement fair income distribution and fair tax policies. This is the constitutional responsibility of the government to its citizens. In the past 20 days alone, Turkish lira has lost 11 per cent against dollars, which means we've become 11 per cent poor. The fact that more than 50 per cent of the banking sector is controlled by foreign capital indicates that these crises will inevitably stand before us all the time. There's no point in hiding the economic downturn from the public by developing Hamasi rhetorics from here. Turkey's Statistical Agency is supposedly renovating the national accounts system and giving false figures after these renovations and trying to put the public to sleep. WHAT kind of imagination is it to try to make our present crisis situation look good, with this optimistic picture by TÜİKbook? I offer it to your appreciation. Unfortunately, I can't say there's a professional budget for the budget. The technical budget must be transparent, questionable and auditable, and the audit must be done professionally. Since everything goes through the Treasury Department, let me offer you an easier way: Bags with the names of every department, such as the law, to be prepared, budgets, bags, to be distributed to the ministers. The budget doesn't need a parliamentary audit anyway. He can give the department whatever money he wants with a bag. Each time, we moved the country from here to there for ten years. Fourteen years is a very long process. Compared to China, China has made a move in ten years to become what it is today. In comparison with geography and population density, 14 years have become very clear how it's been wasted. Because I'm an engineer-rooted MP, the basic rule of engineering is economics, solid, reliable economics. One of our teachers -- the last time I told you about it -- I'll repeat it because there's no time left -- was described as an engineer, who knows how to do what a fool can do for $2. Unfortunately, today we are witnessing that a dollar job, let alone two, three, four, even five. Our Presidents-in-Chiefs, along with Selahattin Demirtaş and Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ have been added 10 MPs, and then 2 more, 12 of our MPs today are being held in detention in prisons under a political operation and embargoing the people's free will. This will serve nothing but co-operation with politics, blocking peace and dialogue, banning politics on the parliamentary floor. The scales of your judgment today will weigh you one day. There is also a point in reminding that the Constitution is on the agenda these days: Constitutions must be kept within the community, but 6 million people's wills are not included in your proposal to change the Parliament; they are held hostage in Edirne, Kandira, and Silivri. And the last three mayors in Bitlis County, where I'm a congressman, have been arrested. I strongly condemn these practices by being handcuffed to the will of the people. Taking everything you can't get through democratic methods in illegal ways is neither human rights nor ethics. We don't want death, we want a solution. We don't want conflict, we want peace. Unfortunately, our peace ambassador, Tahir Elçi, is being killed, and those who want peace are being arrested. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0389par0062	Thank you. The last speaker for the groups, Antalya MP Niyazi Nefi Kara on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kara.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0390par0066	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on Article 2 of the 2015 Central Management Computation Act. I salute the High Council and the people who follow us at the beginning of the screens. When we talk about an income-related clause, I think we should start by talking about the jobs our government has accomplished with income. Guys, let's see how we're doing today. Today the dollar has reached its 1.5 lira levels, and soon the dollar and the euro will be equal to the dollar. The price of oil has been reflected to the citizen. Our relations with Russia are very good, our trade volume exceeds $100 billion. Our relations with the European Union have improved, we are now EU members, visa liberalisation is complete. There's no journalists, no writers, no prisoners. Our relations with Asian states have improved, our relations with the Turkish republics. Turkey's Kurdish policy set an example in the Middle East, even reducing tensions. Our national income, our peace and prosperity are growing rapidly. Our democracy has flourished. The press, the writers, the broadcasters, they broadcast freely. Meanwhile, international capital waits in line to invest in Turkey. Religious beliefs have become unabuseable by interest organizations. Thanks to you, we have become a people who respect each other's faith, worship, and lifestyle. I was forgetting, your health policies have reduced children's deaths to zero according to research in Turkey. What about terror? There's no sign of terrorism, the cops don't carry guns anymore. The Prime Minister was at the cinema with the citizens the other day. (HPP) Our president? With the pride of becoming President of such a country, he is able to travel in the country with his people safely without blocking the roads. I congratulate the AKP on its successful policies. You did everything you said. We? As CHP, we couldn't have done any of this!) Isn't she beautiful? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, unfortunately, we can only imagine it because of you. So, what are the facts? Needless to say, you're the most tax collector government in the world. You continue to increase revenues by rising from air to water, from gasoline to mazota and electricity to anything you can think of. In the government's budget of everything from health to education, from roads to bridges, the debt of hundreds of billion dollars is wrapped around the back of citizens. You are a government at a time when there are many facilities and factories built throughout the history of the Republic sold for 60 billion dollars, and worst of all, land like the Aegean islands and the land of Süleyman Shah Turbesi. He's been running the country for 14 years, he's been bragging about budgeting for 14 years, you're saying you're running the money very well. We know your skill in managing money. We've seen dollars zeroed in boxes and traitors who put them in the public eye during your reign of power. Mr. President says change the dollar, turn it into Turkish lira to overcome the congestion in the economy, but take the gold. But what he doesn't know is that China, Australia and America are producing the most gold in the world, and he probably thinks they're going for Turkish lira. And these dollars should be cashed. We bought a dictator's plane, I'm afraid. Dear friends, we will once travel all over the world and market the country. We never imagined that you would sell the country. We didn't see why Hatay joined our country after the Lauzan Agreement, and why the coup of September 12 at the end of the Cypriot Peace Movement, had been broken down in the country, how our people were divided step by step by Kurdistan, how our religion was exploited through sects, even serving empirists at the last point today -- our army's conspiracy -- as well as Ergenekon, Balyoz -- and lastly the treacherous blow of July 15th. So, what happened after the blow, fellas? On the way to the presidential agenda, Mr. President's adviser -- whether God has given, God has given, or what's-his-name -- said Turkey is a great country, state and autonomy -- should be discussed. Did you answer that as a party? The system you're chasing is also a suggestion from the imperialists you can't name. So, did you stand up straight? Are you really not going to blush when you talk about this division system in front of the Turkish nation? This country hasn't been this way for 14 years because of the parliamentary system, democracy. The project that destroyed the parliamentary system was actually a proposal from ISIS, the PKK, the terrorist organizations that you consider to be a terrorist organization today, why are you still on the same path? Why won't you say enough? (HPP) Today we have been questioned by you for sharing the sovereignty of the country with uncertain congregations and sects. That's what you guys did to this system you're questioning. You're blaming CHP where you're stuck. Are these bombs going off because of the CHP? Did we do this because more than 400 of our citizens, CHP, sat at the same table with terrorist organizations in the 24 bombings after June 7, 2015? (HPP) Was it the Republican People's Party that negotiated terrorism while the daily news of the martyrs broke our hearts? (CHP cheers) Are women getting violent because of the CHP, or even losing their lives? Are our children being abused because of the CHP, and even the CHP tried to legitimize abuse in parliament? [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, did our children die in the dorms because of the lack of control of CHP power? From zero problems in foreign policy to zero friends in CHP? Has the European Union relations become this tense because of the CHP? Is this what the CHP's policy on health transformation has done to health workers? What you're doing and what you're saying doesn't add up, guys. I'd like to thank Mr. Secretary before our health reviews. There's an increase in the Health Ministry's 2017 budget, and there's something they say here, we're going to build facilities for the production of difteria, tetanus vaccines and plasma fraction products in Turkey. I'd like to thank Mr. Secretary and the government. There's something else, but we're going to phase two. It says, "Well, it's blocked." Actually, the Health Transformation Program is blocked because it's not going to work. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary... the representative of the mpt told me in the morning. Earlier, we and the AKP representatives sat down with the Ministry bureaucrats. We said, "Let's pass the law of violence in health." What's he waiting for, Mr. Secretary? Do you have an answer? Who's blocking it?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0391par0087	The Minister of National Education is here now.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0390par0088	The bill on healthcare workers' rights is ready and waiting in your hands, waiting for the Prime Minister's signature. Who's stopping you? Who's holding your hand? Give us an answer. [[Applause from CHP rows]] When you privatize the healthcare system, it's unforgivable to make public health purchases with money. College hospitals were unable to operate due to debt. From here, it is our duty to advise you to investigate the failure of university hospitals to work because of the connection between a large and private health organization and the terrorist organization. I'm telling you to question these flagships with the Bank Asia, the hospital and the mall. Unfortunately, our university hospitals, who should be bragging about their science, have lost their autonomy. If you had ruled with the rectors -- which all university workers, students, faculty -- were elected -- instead of appointing university rectors from the students, they would not have happened, and our people would have learned about democracy there, and they would not have happened to us. Dear friends, time is running out. Finally, when the budget was being prepared, the dollar was $3.5, now 3.5. With 15 percent loss, we're asking for an additional 15 percent increase in mazota, fertilizer, water and electricity, as well as minimum wage, workers, civil servants and pensioners. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0392par0094	Thank you. Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0393par0096	Mr. President, since we sold the country...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0394par0097	The country's resources, Mehmet my dear, and the country's resources...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0393par0098	...that we didn't have an answer as a party, that we had a system debate. He said that some of the statements were being used, that we couldn't answer them. That gives you an answer.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0395par0099	Here you go, Mr. Mush. Please complete it in two minutes, and we won't be able to afford another taunt.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0393par0104	Mr. President, good lawmakers, land is not for sale. No party in Turkey would sell country land if it came to power by the vote of the nation. People would never let that happen. AK PARTY has never thought of such a thing or allowed such a thing to happen.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0396par0105	Who invaded the Greek islands?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0397par0106	Are you still there?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0393par0107	After this coup attempt, after our army is strengthened, it will effectively carry out its mission to defend our country in a way that will strengthen whoever is involved in this coup attempt to support it, to clean up whoever is in it. The army is our army, the army will continue to serve under the state and nation of the Republic of Turkey. Anyone involved in this coup attempt will be removed. This will make our army much stronger.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0398par0108	Ergenekon, in the cases of the Sledgehammer, you said this army was not our army.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0393par0109	There can be no injustice here, and immediately after this coup attempt, Operation Firat Shield actually reveals the maneuverability of the Turkish Republic's military.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0398par0110	In Ergenekon, in the sledgehammer, you said that this army is not our army.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0393par0111	Dear MPs, here, in fact, it's the state, that's it. It's not appropriate to use expressions like that.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0399par0112	Why?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0393par0113	That's why it's inadmissible: We submitted the constitutional amendment proposal to Parliament. What does it say there? He's talking about the university system. There's no such thing as what you're talking about. I suggest you read this.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0400par0114	You haven't read his motive, read the last sentence of his motive.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0401par0115	Where's the Prime Minister? You're taking out the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0402par0116	Calm down, friends, please.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0400par0117	Look, there's the Commissioner laughing.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0401par0118	You're taking out the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0403par0119	You're making the Prime Minister a minister.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0404par0120	I didn't mean to...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0405par0121	The Commissioner is laughing across the street. Read the last sentence of motive.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0404par0122	I suggest you read this. Read it first, and then you'll tell me if you see such a sign in the text.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0406par0123	You read, you, you!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0407par0124	You're taking out the Prime Minister, Prime Minister! Could it be a democracy without the Prime Minister?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0404par0125	We've said it over and over again, that we're going to bring in a model based on a unitary system, and we're going to bring it in. I suggest you take a look at this. Deputies, the EC PARTY, act by the direction of the nation and by the direction of the nation.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0407par0127	The Prime Minister is the minister.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0404par0128	I don't know about others, but our destination is the direction that people draw and point; we take instructions from him, and we follow his instructions.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0408par0129	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0409par0130	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0408par0131	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0409par0132	Mr. President, I'd like to put it on the record. What our speaker means is...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0410par0133	Let's get into the questions, the answers, that's it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0411par0134	He doesn't have a Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0412par0135	Congressmans, this is your group vice president speaking, please. Come in, Mr. Sky, we're listening.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0413par0137	Mr. President, what our speaker means is that the country's resources are being sold. What does the country's resources mean? For example, all the facilities in the time of Ataturk, where he boasted about the industrialization of Turkey, which you can imagine, from the ports to the TECEL. The AKP also boasted that we sold them. They said, "They are their own statements." So all the profits made during the Republic period, resources, have been sold. That's what the AKP is bragging about, so we've brought the privatisation to this point. That's what you mean. I want it on the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0412par0139	Thank you, Mr. Sky. The first word for the individuals now belongs to Zonguldak MP Özcan Uupınar. Here you go, Mr. Nupınar. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0414par0148	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all with love and respect. I have made a personal pledge on Article 2 of the 2015 Central Management Computation Act. We're approaching the final days of budget negotiations. Hopefully tomorrow the budget will pass through the General Assembly, and it will be accepted. Our country needs this budget. From defense to education, health to infrastructure, I hope they turn into investments. Of course, not only are these investments, but our country, on the one hand, is fighting PKK terrorism, dealing with it. The issue in Syria and Iraq concerns us closely, where we try to take care of our refugee brothers. And again, terror has recently broken our hearts. 44 of our brothers were killed in the explosion in Istanbul. We had two martyrs from our Zonguldak, one gas. May God have mercy on them, and may their dwelling be a haven, and may my Lord grant them a good life, and may He grant them patience. The fire burns where it fell. I hope it's the last time. And I want to say that we have to fight for it. Again, we watch the massacre in Aleppo. Let's empathize for a moment. I wasn't here on the evening of July 15th, I was home. My wife got up from the house and came to the General Assembly, and she still hasn't recovered from that trauma from the people who lived here. Imagine, for a moment, that this is Aleppo, God forbid. 30 kilometers beyond our borders, these events take place. Let's imagine that the bombing there is here right now. Let's imagine that it happened. Believe me, these lights are cut off, the roads are cut off, the Internet is cut off, we can't communicate; we can't meet our family in Ankara, we can't have our children, they can't reach us. There's a lot of pain, and we're trying to take care of them, but unfortunately, Western countries, Iran, Russia, America, the EU, they're in the middle of this civil war to sell more weapons, to buy more of its oil. And as a country, I hope we're fighting for it to stop. Civilian citizens are being evacuated from there right now. Believe me, it hurts a lot. We're all sorry. We're all breaking hearts, watching these, trying not to keep quiet. Hopefully, the bloodshed here will be the end, and peace will come to this geography, and peace will come, and health will come, and I hope that such events will not happen in our country and will not live in the world. Dear MPs, I'm the Zonguldak MP. During our rule, our Zonguldak was also invested eight quadrillion dollars by our governments. We've had two counties.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0415par0154	Six zeros down.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0414par0155	Our paths are made. For the first time in the history of the Republic, our railways, our cars have been renovated, our airport has been opened.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0416par0156	Congressman, the Eregli-Derek Road is still not over. The road between our counties isn't over.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0414par0157	The Filyos Valley Project has been implemented, it's a 100-year project. Hopefully, there will be a third largest port of Turkey. There will be 12,000 people there in the first place, 40,000 when it's over. This port, capable of 25 million tons, will be the salvation of Central Anatolia, the West Black Sea, and not just of Zonguldak. These and other investments, hopefully, will continue in the coming days. Again, our Zonguldak's property law was implemented during our time, and 50,000 of our citizens received the deed. Zonguldak is the stadium of Zonguldak. There's been some problems with the hospital, and hopefully the hospital will be built in a different place in the coming days. Public investments in our counties are complete. Zonguldak is continuing his TOKI studies, and hopefully Zonguldak will get his share of the budget. I thank all of our bureaucrats, our deputies, our Commission, our president, our ministers, the Ministry employees who have been involved in preparing this budget. I salute the General Assembly in the hope that the budget will be good for our country, for our nation, for our country.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0417par0162	Thank you, Mr. Nupınar. Now it belongs to Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0418par0166	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, I have taken a personal oath on Article 2 of the 2015 Central Management Computation Act. I salute the grand jury. In Article 2 of the year 2015, the central management budget revenue is 482.8 billion dollars. However -- as you know -- on December 12, 2016, the Statistical Institute revised national accounts in the national series of revenues; in their national figures, the total Turkish national income, and in parallel with this, there was an increase in income per person. The number of 2015 increased by 19.7 per cent year-on-year. The increase here in 2015 is about $335 billion. I'm not going to go into the details of this right now, but our group vice president made a detailed assessment of it last night. Now, in the final account law, the budget revenue is 482.8 billion dollars; in the paintings that TÜİK showed yesterday, this is $551.9.9 billion. If there's something wrong with me, please let the bureaucrat friends -- in detail, the Minister may not know -- say it, explain it; it's important. Thus, in 2015, after a revision of national income figures, the mid-term programme and all government documents now differ from the central management budget revenues of the budget, 69.1 billion euros. If we're wrong, please correct it, or -- I just said it in my speech -- I really need an explanation. What does anyone have to do with these? He needs to be able to explain and learn in a transparent way. Now, while the budget is being discussed here, TİK changes accounts, publishes some revision numbers. What numbers are we going to confirm in the General Assembly now? It's a serious business, and a government job takes serious action. It's a rush, it's a rush, it's a rush, it's a timeless, it's a bummer. Of course, taxes are the main source of income for the state's public expenses. The burden of taxes and the fair distribution of this burden are important. It's a constitutional obligation to pay taxes according to everyone's financial power. It is also the government's most important duty to ensure that this obligation is carried out in a fair and balanced manner. 30.3 per cent of tax revenues envisioned in the 2017 budget are income and income taxes, 2.3 per cent on property taxes, 41.5 per cent on property taxes, 19 per cent on international trade and treatments, 3 per cent on stamp taxes, 3.9 per cent on taxes. Therefore, it is clear that indirect taxes have been greatly increased and that there is an unfair taxation system. Indirect taxes, such as the UTV increase, have increased the share of indirect taxes, which are already too high in total taxes, and what does it do to the revenue distribution? It's a negative effect. In Turkey, the unfair distribution of taxes has become chronic. The government considers doing a real tax reform a political risk. It is a case where the government is unable to collect taxes regularly and has to bring configuration arrangements almost every year. In 2015, $48.4 billion is about 2.5 times the budget deficit of 2015, which is a total of $32.3 billion VAT, which cannot be collected with a tax expenditure of 16.1 billion, which is only taxed by institutions. In Turkey, the tax burden on production is heavy, and it harms businesses' competitiveness. So even though it's a precise calculation, some of these things can be compared, some of them need to be considered with new accounts. I, personally, Mr. Secretary, request this from the Treasury Department, through you. Thank you, I'm paying my respects. And I wish you well in the budget.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0419par0179	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. Mr. Tanal, you've entered the system. You want my word on 60?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0420par0181	Question-answer, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0419par0182	Okay. You're the only one who got in. The bands had a thing, but I'll give you a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0420par0184	Mr. Minister, on the date before November 4, 2016, how many companies or real people are there that receive dollars or euros and how many individuals? How many of these companies and individuals have broken dollars or euros from November 4, 2016 to today? How much did he change? Another question: From 2002 to today, how is the annual tax loss and the increase of illegal costs? Another question is: What are the applications and your future efforts by the ministry to reduce lost illegal costs? Are the Ministry's control mechanisms enough to ensure that the missing illegal costs don't increase? What is the distribution of tax-lost contraband to regions and sectors? What effect does the application of tax missing and fugitive notices and a tip bonus with Law 1905 have on reducing the cost of the missing fugitive?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0421par0191	Yes, Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0422par0192	Make sure it's in writing, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0423par0193	Mr. President, he asked all of these... about the foreign currency companies and the real people. After November 4, 2016, he asked, "How much of the fields have sold?" He asked about the missing fugitive ratios. He asked if it was distributed by the districts. He asked about the bonuses because of the tip. As a result of a large study, friends will do a study and pass it on to Mr. Tanal. For your information, Reverend President.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0424par0195	I have more questions, Mr. President, because there's time.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0425par0196	Okay, go ahead, ask him one more question, Mr. Secretary, and then he'll read the Gazel there, and then he'll go on. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0424par0198	Well, thank you, Mr. President. In Istanbul province...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0426par0200	The Minister doesn't read Gazel, Mr. President! It doesn't look good!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0427par0201	I didn't tell you. None of your business, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0426par0202	The Minister doesn't read Gazel, Mr. President!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0427par0203	None of your business, Mr. Horseman. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0426par0205	It's my business! That's the President's office!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0427par0206	Mr. Tanal, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0428par0207	It's all our business! I invite you to be serious, I invite you to be serious!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0427par0208	Mr. Tanal, I'm listening. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0429par0210	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, how many areas in the province of Istanbul have been divided into the center of support and meeting at the time of the earthquake after the 1999 earthquake? Question two: how many areas in the province of Istanbul have been designated as a gathering and assistance centre at the time of the earthquake as of 2016? Question three: In the province of Istanbul, a large portion of areas designated as a center for gathering and assistance during the earthquake are being opened.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0430par0214	Yes, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0431par0215	Once again, Reverend President, there has been a question of the number of gathering sites at the time of the earthquake, and how many parts of them have been developed, and we will take the information from the Ministry of Environment and the AFAD, and we will give it to him in writing.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0429par0216	I have another question.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0430par0217	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0429par0218	Thank you, Mr. President. Okay. I think I'm gonna move from that area to another area. How much does the construction of the new service building of Sandzaktepe City cost? Question number two: who is the contractor and who is being paid for the costs of the new service building? Question three: Is it true that the public has been constantly claiming that there has been a new contractor change and that construction cannot continue? If it's true, what's the reason? Question four: When will Sandzaktepe City's new service building be completed, is the date set for the launch of the project when it begins? Question five: Isn't the extension of the project's construction of the contractor company the factors that increase the cost? Question six: Is the construction of the ongoing service building insufficient for the old building, and how many square feet is the old building located on? Question seven: What institution is the site of the project registered to?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0432par0228	Ask a little more, we'll give the Minister our word later, you have time, Mr. Tanal. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0429par0230	Question eight: In what area will the service building, which has already been used by Sandzaktepe City, be used after moving to the new building? Now, I don't know if you're going to answer that again or not.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0432par0232	Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0429par0233	In other words, how many tenders have been opened by the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality from 2002 to today? How many of these were left on BELTUR Anonymous? Which companies have received the tender from the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality? HOW many tenders have been made between BELTUR Anonymous Company and İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality, and with what dates and procedure were the tenders held? What kind of tender was the offer offered outside the offer of BELTUR A.C., and what are the details of the bids if offered? HOW often, and in what way, is the financial audit of BELTUR Corporation?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0433par0237	Go ahead, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0429par0238	Thank you. Is there any study or study of the financial affairs of BELTUR Corporation? Is there any control of the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality's BELTUR Anonymous Company since 2004? DO the Court have audits and reports on the financial affairs of BELTUR Corporation, and what are they? WHAT are any concessions given in matters related to BELTUR Anonymous Company and the operations of these businesses? Is the annual profit or turnover, other than the rent costs for moving from the Istanbul Metropolitan City Council to be run by BELTUR Anonymous Corporation, getting any cut? WHAT are the expenses and expenditures that caused BELTUR Anonymous to make 5 per thousand against 165.1 million euros?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0434par0246	Go back into the system. We're waiting for you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0429par0247	How much is the measurement of the 2/B land in the town of Czechmeköy and what land is part of its qualifications? Is there a place on it? What's the sale price on this land? On what date did the 2/B lands enter the 2/B domain class? Who are the rightful owners of the 2/B properties in Czechköy? Have these people applied for land that they deserve? If so, how much land 2/B was registered to the owner after the applications? The 2/B users and registrations of non-processed subsidiaries are abandoned by the Bank of Finance at the request of the Finance Ministry, and these are considered by the Ministry of Finance general provisions. What's used in public services from these places, the needs of public administration...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0434par0249	Mr. Tanal, let's make a promise to the Minister about his field of duty. Maybe he'll answer all the questions. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0435par0251	Thank you, Reverend President. One from the previous question: In the fight against a tax-lost fugitive, citizens can file a written or verbal report on the real and legal persons they claim caused by missing persons and fugitives within the scope of the report. The report can be in any form, even on the Internet. Reports can be made in writing to the President of the Tax Control Board, the Chairman of the IRS, the Chairman of the Tax Office, the Bookmasters, and by telephone as well. As part of the Law on the Intifa Rights and Permanent Taxes to be given to those who report tax evasions that remain beyond the knowledge of the administration, the demand for bonuses is paid by 10 per cent of the amount of payout due to the amount of financial information and documents on how the complaint has caused tax loss and fugitives, and in the case that they are eligible to receive bonuses by the reviewer. The number of people who have been given bonuses since 2002 is approximately 338 people who have been given bonuses, 1,215 people who have been reported in action since 2002 and $6,45,626, Mr. President. Again, how much does the city of Sancatepe cost? How much has the contractor changed? Did the override change cause a delay? How many square meters will he be asked about it, and he will be given information about it. Again, with the Metropolitan Municipality, there are demands for BELTUR ASISH; there are also demands for 2/BP in Czechköy, and they will be forwarded to him. He also asked me about the 2/B properties, Mr. President. December 31st, 1981... my final sentence, Reverend President.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0436par0259	Complete it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0435par0260	Lands 2/B have been designated as 2/B, where the forest had lost its quality before 31 December 1981. I'm saying that the fact that it's used for housing, industry and agricultural purposes before that date is also necessary to define it as 2/B.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0436par0261	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, I'm going to make you read the general sums of the C-section, and I'm going to put it to your votes...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0437par0263	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0436par0264	One second, let's have it read, we haven't voted yet, Mr. Tanal, calm down, we're here. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 442,586,345,000.00 Collection 525,045,890,827,96 Ret and Returns (-) 58,366,816,082,52 Net Collection 466,679,074,745,44
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0438par0272	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit06spe0436par0273	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger before the vote.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0436par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of 2015 Central Management Competitive Account Law Bill The commission and the government are in place. Now, I submit to your votes the (B) table read in the previous session: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 2nd article (B) to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 3- (1) Adds to Law 5018 between the budget costs of 2015 and the sums of budget revenues; A) (I) is more than 25,185,380,024.05 Turkish Lira budget costs for public administrations under the general budget, B) 5.814.990.945.70 Turkish Lira on the table number II is more than budgetary, C) (III) is a budgetary surplus of regulatory and auditory institutions of 492,364.914.65 Turkish liras, It's done. (2) The central administration of 2015 is a net budget surplus of 23.525,193,015,08 Turkish Lira. The first word for groups on Article 3 belongs to İstanbul MP Ismail Faruk Aksu (Ismail) on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Aksu, please.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0439par0017	Mr. President, I've been promised on behalf of the National Party of Actions on Article 3 of the 2015 Central Management Computation Act. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. The budget balance represents the relationship between the budget's sum of funds and the sum of revenues. The central management budget bill envisions the difference between the sum of funds and the estimated incomes to be met with debt, and is essentially the acceptance of an imbalance situation at the beginning. The exact balance in the account law means that the difference that has become concrete is that after expenses have been made, Turkey will be approved by the Grand National Assembly. The aim of the budget's audit function is to monitor whether the powers the legislature has given the executive body by budget laws are being used according to the budget law, but high-level spending without the approval of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey represents a situation that cannot be fully used. According to the general framework laid out in the Constitution, budgetary rights are applied by the Public Financial Management and Control Law and the Court Law. These two laws organise the adoption and auditing of the budget's budget, which is a two-bit budget. As expressed in the Court's general fitness statement 2015, the spending authority issued by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is seen to have been exceeded by the executives with materials for the transfer of funds to budget laws again, and above the initial spending authority issued. According to the grant transfer process of 2015, the funds of 15 administrations reached 63.7 per cent of the budget grant. So 63.7% of the budget allocation was used for different expenditures, and Turkey's Grand National Assembly's budget rights were violated. According to Article 160 of the Constitution, the Constitutional Court is tasked with overseeing public administrations under the central management budget on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and finalizing accounts and transactions. In the last 14 years, regulations and applications have been made to disable the control function overall, and the audit findings and results have not been considered. The Court has also received its share of the process. Generally defunctioning the Court and reducing its effectiveness, resulting in the failure of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in this area and the failure to fully fulfil its budgetary rights. If you look at the precise account figures, the budget targets and the budget deficit appear to have differed, and the budget deficit is more than expected. The budget costs in 2015 were 506.3 billion liras, budget revenues of 482.8 billion liras and budget deficits of 23.5 billion dollars. The budget costs of 2015 increased by 7.1 per cent, according to the initial budget forecast, by 0.7 per cent, according to the forecast for the end of the year. The budget revenues, however, have increased by 6.8 per cent, according to the initial budget forecast, and by 0.9 per cent, according to the forecast for the year-end. The budget deficit, which was $23.5 billion in 2015, is 2.6 billion above the initial budget deficit. The balance of income and expense is important to ensure that public services do not show any difficulties in their presentation. In particular, increases in costs reveal the need for debt as a result of income failure to cover costs, and the increasing budget deficit leads to more public debt. Precious lawmakers are in a situation where the weight of the services sector is increasing, which cannot achieve structural transformation in the economy of Turkey, agriculture and industrial production. The need for more concrete sub-focusses of programmes to transform real estate and construction-based growth models and to be implemented in a way that contributes to structural transformation is increasing day by day. Growth has become a structural seesaw where the economy gets smaller and smaller as the economy goes smaller. As a result of the budget deficit and debt policy, the public stockpile of domestic debt is rising. Foreign debt is increasing as savings are insufficient and public debt needs are not met by domestic sources. The inability to implement long-term employment, employment-friendly economic policies increases the number of unemployed. According to today's figures, unemployment has increased by 1.5 per cent and has increased by 1.5 per cent compared to the previous year. The actual number of unemployed has reached 6 million, and youth unemployment has increased by 1.4 per cent to 19.9 per cent. The growing vulnerability and risk in the economy have even more negative impact on our country's position in the competitive race. These are signs the government must take into account in terms of the economy's well-being and demonstrate the need for structural measures to be taken at once. Dear lawmakers, taxes -- the state's largest source of income -- have become an important element of government economic policy. Taxation is expected to have impacts on the distribution of revenues and the stabilisation of price, while it also undermines the concept of justice that the tax should be evaluated only within the scope of the financing of expenditures. Today, unfair taxes, young unemployment, informality, and social distortions also threaten social reconciliation dynamics. The revenue distribution of budget spending is one of the criteria to ensure justice, to protect disadvantaged groups, to increase investment, production and employment; the quality of expenditures, as well as the fairness of the budget. In this understanding, budgets must serve to increase the income of our citizens in the small and fixed income group, such as tradesmen, farmers, pensioners, workers, and civil servants, and to make the economic and social policies against them fair. The fact that both informality and the share of indirect taxes in tax revenues have risen to high levels during the rulings of the Justice and Development Party points out that injustice is increasing against them. Turkey is one of the most unfair countries in this sense. Given this heavy tax burden on our citizens, the approach to financing public expenditures with an additional tax burden would not be right. In addition, the increase in taxes, through indirect taxes, will make the tax system more unfair, and will negatively affect the revenue distribution. While there are some temporary non-tax incomes such as privatisation revenues within budget revenues, what is essential is the quality of permanent income. A once-in-a-lifetime income gives us a temporary recovery look, but as these revenues decrease, the difference is either increased taxes or repaid by debt, which is still on the shoulders of our narrow and fixed-income citizens. The height of the unregistered economy brings more burdens to registered taxpayers and cannot spread to tax bases. It has been said for 14 years that instead of loading the taxpayers under the table, the tax base will be expanded, but such initiatives have failed to come to a conclusion and have not been arranged to reward our citizens who have paid their taxes regularly for years. Dear lawmakers, the facility for predictable law and public administration is crucial, along with economic measures to overcome these problems. The quality of public income and expenditure must be improved and permanent closure of public deficits and reduce public debt supplies. In the distribution of resources, justice and activity must be efficient in service production, expenditures are re-prioriented, preventing waste and inefficiency within the framework of fiscal discipline. Simple, open, affordable, low-profile, equal and fair tax practices and the expansion of the tax base should increase tax revenues, and the injustice of taxation must be eliminated. Financial policy must be used as an effective tool to achieve macroeconomic goals and ensure justice for the distribution of income. With these thoughts, I ask that the budget be good for our nation; that it contributes to more work, more work, more height, a more peaceful and secure Turkey painting, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0440par0033	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. The second speaker for the groups is İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0441par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to read you a letter today from a woman whose hair has become whiter than mine, whose struggle for peace, for democracy, has actually spread to far more years than mine. My dear Filiz, I greet you and all your female friends with love, and I look forward to it. First of all, I'd like to express my opinion that a political mind will come to the forefront of blood and tears that will stop the immediate deaths. In an environment where everyone is armed with the sharpest swords, making the most deadly moves, we've learned how difficult it is to maintain peace, but there's no other option. There is no humanitarian alternative to peace. The insistence on peace is the insistence on humanity. No matter what the cost, if we don't take it, we'll have the shame of leaving new generations a future that's exhausted from war, from conflict. These general human and conscientious truths are a thousand times more valid for us women. Because, we know, women and children pay the worst price of wars. It's the most common truth that has occurred in wars across the world for thousands of years. I wish we'd learned that by reading books. Unfortunately, we've had this bad experience in life. And we're still going through it again and again every day. Eril is based on defeating mentality, taking over, ruling, putting pressure on his power to protect it. He doesn't know any other way, he doesn't want to know. Instead of defeat, we can create a world more habitable, instead of compromise, sharing, and freedom rather than oppression. The hope of building a common future built on these values gives you strength. We have to keep that hope. We have to grow it. There's no one left to know that war is death, blood, tears, migration, destruction, poverty, trauma, despair, despair. You know, how crazy it is not to learn from what you're living, how crazy it is to be kept sane. We women will not tirelessly, tirelessly continue to defend madness, not death, but life. My dear Filiz, it doesn't matter that I'm inside, that I'm suffering as an individual, but it's way beyond that. I was elected by the votes of about 400,000 people. I was a legislator for seven years. I was co-Chair of the Peace and Democracy Party. People knew me, they knew my thoughts. They made their choices accordingly. Now I'm being tried for two hundred and thirty years in prison for my political views that 400,000 people voted for. My views, which I express in public, on the council stand, are being judged, and the people's will is being ignored. Of course, Turkey's public opinion does not know these facts. In the last year, a perception has been created that has been repeated over and over again from the most effective, authorized mouths in the morning and evening. And the media wrote that lie back and forth. Yeah, most of all, I have a website for my colleagues, journalists. They didn't ask once, what do you think of these allegations? They didn't say once. I'm just saying in the spirit of the free pens that are in the same situation as me. One word from us, Turkey, has not been made public. If this isn't a judgmental execution, then what is it? When consciences are dull, there are many who open their doors to chaos. Chaos doesn't have winners. It's the basic rule of democracy: the one that comes with the election goes with the election. Any action outside of this is a blow to the will of the people. I didn't accept this blow, I won't. I'll try to tell the truth in court, of course, but political problems can't be solved in court halls. This is a time when we need democratic politics more than ever. I hope it turns out wrong. Interventions on local and democratic politics often cease. The arrest of me and the other co-chairs also has a measure of love's intervention. In municipalities, the mayor represents governance, and municipal parliaments represent legislation and control. A lot of jurisdictions are in parliament. The president is elected separately, the councillors are elected separately. In all municipalities currently appointed trustees, city councils have been virtually eliminated. City councils aren't meeting because he doesn't want trustees. The trustee is using the authority of the House, so he's taken over executive, legislative and control. For example, the administration submits the budget draft to parliament; parliament discusss the budget and sets the decision. Currently, the trustee is drafting municipal budgets in 2017, and does not submit to parliamentary approval. The point is, it's not about me, it's not about us getting arrested. Local governments have been wiped out, all the results of the local elections have been eliminated. And I'd like to stress in particular that local governments were a new frontier for women. It was a time when women had power, and they were in the decision-making mechanisms, and our cities were reshaped from a woman's point of view. We've conducted very important studies in municipalities, such as developing local and effective solutions to preventing violence against women, finding opportunities to participate in economic life, opening public areas to the use of women. Women have been co-chaired in the local area; there's no way to go beyond that now, there's only one bar. I believe women will take care of these gains. These days will come and go, the mentality of male domination will be resolved in the locals. My trust in women is stronger than ever, and we will succeed. We women will exercise freely in parks, and we will use all the public spaces in our cities. I greet all women with love, and share my hopes for peace and freedom with you. No. 1. Lu F Type Prison Yes, friends, Gültan Kışanak writes these. The women's psychological consultation centers, the laundry house -- three poor neighborhoods -- the bakery of bread, which is not only a bakery of bread, but a bakery of women who contribute to home economies and playgrounds for their children -- were left in a daycare centre -- six daycare centers in Diyarbakir Municipality, women's neighborhood market, women's bus drivers, and a museum -- yes, the one who is always fighting for humanity -- in Gültan Kışanak, Diyarbakır Prison, which is famous for September 12th, where we all remember the prison of Diyarbakir, and in an interview with a journalist, in which he wanted to bring to an interview, in a museum -- in which he wanted to ask you to take a moment from Diyarbakır. Yes, what was the question is easy to answer from you, not in order to do that? In Diyarbakir Prison, they did not take women to cells called the 35th Ward. When they put women in solitary confinement, the torturer director of the prison, Esat Oktay, kept his dog in the room where he was staying. I've been there a long time, and it needs to be reanimated with all its properties. Besides, they were going in every minute of the day and night. When they arrived, I left them in that room as loud as there was to keep me from being caught asleep. Yes, the words of Winteranak, his words to women, peace, freedom, and hope... I salute him. My respects.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0442par0058	Thank you. On behalf of the groups, the last talk is for Balıkesir MP Ahmet Akin, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akin.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0443par0062	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group regarding Article 3 of the 2015 Central Management Computation Act. I hereby salute the High Council. First of all, last Saturday night, I curse the vile terrorist attack on Beşiktas, asking all of our martyrs for mercy from God, for patience with their families, and for immediate healing for our wounded. What our country and our people need most today is peace and security. This is the primary duty and responsibility of power. Dear lawmakers, we're talking about budget balance. According to the final account law report, in 2015, the central management console budget opened 23 billion, 525 million, 193, 15 liras. So our government couldn't afford the taxes they collected. Of course, the government can give it many reasons and excuses for different reasons. However, our people's budget is unfortunately short every month, but they can't find reasons and solutions, the creditors don't listen to excuses, their debts continue to increase rapidly, their families collapse. The state is in debt, the private sector is in debt, the household is in debt; in short, all of Turkey is trying to live on debt. You've raised a national income of 2,000 dollars per person in one night, virtually, a decision that you've made, with no account management, without the equivalent of pulling a rabbit out of a hat. Once again, national income has been increased by your government in the same way, but our citizen's debt is not diminishing, but it's increasing. You show EU standards as a basis for this change in method. You do not give up what you say about the EU's rights, laws, freedoms and democratic standards, but you apply it immediately because it suits you. However, if you have raised democratic standards to EU standards, you will not have to resort to such numbers for production, prosperity, and wealth to increase national income. [[Applause from CHP rows]] There's no way to keep up with the exchange rate these days. Please don't fool people, dear friends. The presidency will bring stability, you say. You make amendments behind closed doors, you bring them to Parliament, the exchanges rise, and every time you say presidential, every time the currency comes out of your mouth, the exchanges pop out of your mouth. We don't know what stability that is. Danger bells ring in our economy, but your love for the presidency continues, I'm afraid. Dear friends, stop this presidential love. You're in power; you're in love, you're in love, you're in love with our people, you're in love with poor people. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In all countries without democracy, transparency, control, freedom, reliable legal system, economies are unstable, and investors don't stop in countries like this, they run away. The presidential system you've brought to Congress is one man's system, clearly and clearly, that everything depends on one person. This system is a system where one man is president, president, prime minister, party president, minister, chief commander, chief prosecutor, chief judge, chief consul, chief inspector, chief teacher, chief economist, prime minister, leader of the country and a major pain in the ass. [[Applause from CHP rows]] This system may be in harmony with your understanding of democracy, but don't try to sell it to our people and to the world as a democratic system, you'll be very embarrassed, you'll be ridiculous; you have no right to play as a member of our country. In certain countries of the world, there are similar systems that you want to build, and you know what they're called. But none of the developed countries of the world have a system like this, a system like yours. Everyone cheats you, easily, and now all of Turkey knows it. That's enough, stop fooling our people. [[Applause from CHP rows]] When the AKP came to power, the $1.67 was dry, and today it exceeded 3.5 liras. One litre of gas was $1.6 in 2002, and today it exceeded $5. The slightest increase in the exchange rate is immediately reflected as a rise in fuel, while you do not receive any reductions in large reductions in raw oil prices. Fuel, electricity and natural gas are viewed as the easiest tax collection tool for the state. These products also have taxes that force consciences. For example, the warm-up. Can you live in an unheated house, dear friends? You can't live. But you get 18 percent VAT from natural gas, as if it's both PTSD and luxury consumption. I have proposed a law on the removal of the EVT in the gas used for warming houses and the reduction of VAT to 11% of the VAT. You claim to be on the side of the public at every turn, and this is your chance to prove it. Come, support my proposal of the law, and we will enact this proposal for the greater good. Let's at least reduce the heating bill for our debted people. Dear lawmakers, I would like to take this opportunity to bring to your attention some of the developments in energy during the AKP era. According to International Energy Agency data, a total of 68.2 trillion dollars will be invested in the energy sector on a global scale from 2015-2040. With $21.8 trillion in investments on the world scale, energy efficiency is the largest share. Energy efficiency is also an important source of energy. Meeting the growing demand for energy in Turkey takes place, especially with the emphasis on energy efficiency and it becomes a state policy. Turkey is spending 30 per cent more energy than OECD countries in order to produce unsubstantiated product. We have the potential to save about $7.5 billion in energy in the building industry, 20 per cent in industry, 15 per cent in transport, and 4 Keban Dam. Dear lawmakers, according to the provisions of the Energy Performance Act published in 2008, nearly 9 million buildings in our country must receive energy identification documents by May 2, 2017. Despite the approach to the end of this period, it is clear and clear that only 442,500 adjectives of the buildings -- five per cent -- take this document and illustrate the importance and value given to energy efficiency. We have an out-of-energy dependency rate of 75 percent. It was 67 percent in 2000. Between 2010 and 2014 alone, our addiction increased by 4.6 percent. Dear lawmakers, the only way to free our country from energy addiction is to quickly activate our domestic and renewable resources. Our clean and renewable resources do not stand out to the extent they deserve, while the government brings the local coal forward with its provisions in terms of domestic resources. We can't take advantage of the sun and wind that we have very serious potential for. Look, we, the Republican People's Party, have been offering our constant solutions to energy policies. Energy co-ops are a good way to be able to have a say in production without leaving our people in the hands of the high-priced Rant System, where we can see a lot of examples around the world, reduce our dependency on the outside. Public share in the electricity sector is rapidly diminishing with privatisations. In this environment, energy co-operators will become an important actor in the industry and perform important functions for public benefit. We started building energy co-operators in our Republican People's Party municipalities. Soon, our people and I will carry out our clean, cheap renewable energy projects in the interest of the public. Complicated and difficult sabbatical processes that exist in unlicensed electricity production, and co-operative difficulties add up, and the cooperatives are not able to start producing energy for a short period of time. In this regard, the obstacles to unlicensed electricity production must be removed and the permit procedures must be simplified and accelerated. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0444par0084	Thank you. The first word for the individuals is from Yozgat MP Ertugrul Soysal. Here you are, Mr. Soysal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0445par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the third article of the 2015 Central Management Computation Act. I hereby salute you and our beloved nation in the sight of you all with respect, love, and respect. At the beginning of my words, I ask the great God to have mercy on the brave men who were martyred by the vile terrorist attack on December 10th. My condolences to your relatives and to our nation, and to the wounded again, and to the great God, and to the good health. Again, I strongly condemn the persecution of Aleppo, who has hurt our hearts and scorched our lungs, and curse those who have done so. Mr. President, you are all aware of where the AK PARTY has brought the country with 14 years of service, with the works it's produced. Of course, from the day it was founded, from the day it came to power, we need to remember what we came up with, how we came across, how there were cutbacks, how there were people who wanted to block us. I, for one, would like to briefly share with you what we've been dealing with since the moment we were founded. Yes, in the fifth month, when we are still in power, a journalist comes out on the day of the general staff's normal, mutate meeting and puts a title on the title that young officers are nervous, disturbed. Of course, you all know what that means. Again, what will happen in 2007, 2007, when we continue to produce services? There will be a presidential election. Of course, the President will become President of the Republic, who has a national opinion from the current government, whose wives have a headscarf, which has made someone uncomfortable. And we will not forget the republical rallies to prevent it, to prevent it, even to prevent it, and even to bring our government, our government, our power, to the early elections, my dear brothers and sisters. Again, we won't forget the 367 freaks that Sabih Kanadoglu, who assumed to be the legal elder, appeared in December 2006. What did Kanadoglu say? The number of decisions is 367 correct, but that's also enough for a meeting. He said, "What did the opposition party at that time say, "If you don't agree with us, we will leave the Assembly." And he did as he said. The vote held on April 27th received 357 votes, and on the same day, he received opposition party and took it to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court made a decision on May 30th, waiting for 30 days from April 30th, and said: "Right, the number of meetings will be 367." The leader of the opposition party at the time said the same thing, I never forget: consider Sabih Kanadoglu, who proposed 367.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0446par0097	At the time, the leader of the opposition party, Recep Erdogan, made the MP. Why don't you say that? Why don't you tell me?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0447par0098	Did you have to? Is it too much for you? What happened? Is that too much to ask?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0445par0099	On that day, the Constitutional Court agreed, and Parliament failed to elect the President, and there was chaos.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0448par0100	Were you, then, one of those who judged Ergenekon, Sledgehammer? Were you a member of the group at the time?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0445par0101	What did we do? We applied for power, we asked our nation, we went to a referendum.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0448par0102	Come on, tell me. Weren't you one of those guys who did the frame-up? Admit it!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0445par0103	In a crushing majority, with 68 per cent of the vote, our nation will choose our President. He said, "We will choose our president." He said, "We have overcome this chaos with the support of God and our nation."
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0449par0104	You were conspiring with him.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0448par0105	Were you the one who staged the plots? Tell me, were you in it?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0445par0106	After all that, again, on 27 April -- you know -- the e-signs -- were published according to me -- the Turkish Armed Forces used statements in their own way, and the spokesman of the EC PARTI government also gave a notice against the warrant, and everyone went on their duty. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Then, of course, there was no speed. What happened? They looked at it, and there was nothing left to do, and they said, "Bari, let's close the AK PARTY in the majority." A Supreme Court Attorney came out, put together newspaper clippings and online news, and left the AK PARTI in the wind, filing a permanent closure suit.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0450par0110	Can we give you an extension, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0445par0111	But, of course, they did not know that they were with us, and that Allah, the Most High, is with us. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) As a result, they were not successful.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0451par0112	Where is Zechariah Oz, Zechariah Oz?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0452par0113	Where are the men, the men?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0453par0114	Thank you, Mr. Soysal.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0454par0115	I mean, we're not actually halfway there yet, but Mr. President... I hereby, God willing, salute all of you with respect, with love, with respect, to pick up where I left off in the next session.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0453par0118	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0455par0119	Do not make Allah an object of your deceit.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0456par0120	You stayed there, you stay there.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0453par0121	Second and final speaker on behalf of individuals, Manisa MP Tur Yıldız Bicer. Here you go, Mr. Biceter.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0457par0124	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm afraid we've come to a time when it's called health, and it's all about money. I'm going to introduce you to a child who was born today, the true face of a public-private partnership that will put $30 billion in hospital debt by the age of 25. Dear MPs, I'm going to tell you the truth about what Recep Erdogan called my personal project, my 14-year dream. And you're going to see how some dreams are actually a nightmare for all of us. What's a public-private partnership? It is a pun intended to prevent both political and psychological opposition to the words "privatisation" or "privatization." In fact, it's an illusion, a complete lie. In public-private partnership -- I don't have to tell you, of course -- a private company is building a hospital building on a treasure site. He rents this building to the government for forty-nine years, and he does all the business out of basic service here. It's kind of like a do-and-do model, but it's one step ahead of that, do-it; it's both lease and hand-off. The government is a tenant of this hospital and a buyer of services. I mean, he's a tenant in his building, and he runs the government hospital of the Department of Health subcontractors in his service. The company operates from hospital to morgue, outside the hospital, from taxi stand to daycare, making money. These companies have great privileges. They are exempted from VAT, stamp tax, and all tuition. Their international loans are guaranteed full treasure. Without a CED report, they can build any hospital building they want in the forest area, and the most interesting thing is that the government guarantees that these hospitals will work at 70 percent of the time, so they'll make their citizens sick. The citizen is completely unaware of the situation when it is guaranteed to be infected by noncompliant corporations. They think the city hospitals are owned by the Ministry of Health, the tenants by corporations. And the Health Department doesn't exactly explain that he's going to be a tenant in his own hospital, paying rent to these buildings. This process has been really bad since 2011. The tender requirements for the side companies are also granted permission to build hotels, malls, residences, and former hospitals, which are now of great value, which are now closed and have a huge range in the city centers. We don't know how to put them. There are thousands of questions we don't know about yet. While government officials are here, I'd like to ask you: Can the Health Ministry guarantee a court difference to city hospitals, cash in these dollars? Or will they have a Turkish lira account for the debt of the treasure, or... Why don't we know, Minister? Members of Parliament, Ankara, İstanbul, Elaziğ, Yozgat, Kayseri, Adana, Mersin, Gaziantep, Isparta, İzmir, Kopeeli, Konya and Bursa, will receive $9 billion from these companies, but in return, the state will pay $27 billion, so that's three times as many as three. Well, that's what you get for putting a 1 and getting a 3. It's not all that; the hospital's annual rent costs are $3 billion. The physicians will move the patient who works harder and doesn't bring in the money. The Ministry of Health is on the market, so get well soon.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0458par0135	Thank you. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Transferred, canceled and complementary grant MADDE 4- (1) Central administration is added to Law 5018, as shown in the final account statements: A) (I) Turkey's Lira, a total of 655,403,256,44, which was not spent in 2015 as part of the general budget. B) (II) A total of 28,415,423,15 Turkish liras, which were not spent during 2015 by special budgetary administrations in the ruler, The grant is transferred to the next year. (2) The central administration, as shown in the expense statements, is added to Law 5018, from the special grants used during 2015 and transferred to the following year; A) (I) is a total of 23,866,025,888.75 Turkish Lira of public administrations under the general budget. b) (II) A total of 4,126,517,217,18 Turkish Lira of special budgetary administrations in the ruler, C) (III) is a total of 660,578,687,26 Turkish Lira of regulator and auditory institutions on the table. The grant has been cancelled. (3) The central administration is added to Law 5018, to meet public administration's over-funded spending in 2015, as shown in the final expense statements; A) (I) Turkish Lira totalled 31,207,551,183,33 for public administrations under the general budget on the ruler number I, B) 123,312.79 Turkish Lira for special budgetary administrations on table number III Completive grant accepted. The first word for the groups on the matter belongs to Aydın MP Deniz Depboylu on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Depboy. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0459par0156	Thank you. Mr. President, I've been promised to discuss Article 4 of the 2015 Central Management Accounts Budget Act. I salute the Holy Turkish nation and the Veterans Assembly. Dear lawmakers, while we discuss the budget of our nation's institutions, I also think we should look at our nation's budget and evaluate it. If we take into account the raises to the officer, the pensioner, the BUG-KURL, perhaps we can make more use of their budgets. We know about these raises. Officers and civil servants will receive a 3% increase, so that the officer will receive a $67 raise, and the pensioner will receive a $55 raise, which shows that. Again, the SEC, BUG-KUR pensioners will receive a 3.73 per cent increase, which means the agricultural pension will receive $39, while the tradesman's BUG-KUR pension will receive a 48 lira raise. Gasoline, mazota, again, raises to meat, milk, eggs, vegetables are obvious, but unfortunately, there are increases to the pleasure of the city's municipalities. Despite all objections, the latest increases made by the Metropolitan Municipality of Aydın, my constituency, amounted to a ton of water Efeler, Nazilli and Söke. At a 45 per cent increase in the household, $3.20 per cent from $2.20 per cent, and at a 35 per cent increase in trades, from $2.90 p.m. to $3.93p.m. At 42 per cent increase in Kuşada, $3.20 raises the water fee to $4.55 per cent; again, at 34 per cent increase in trades, it goes from $4.25 to $5.71. The water price, which is $3.50 per cent higher than 37 per cent in Didim, is $4.80 per cent, and at a 29 per cent increase in trades, it's $6.17 per cent at $4.75 per cent. Again, Bozdoğan, Buharkent, China, Germencik, İncirliova, Karacasu, Koçarlı, Köşk, Kuyucak, Karpuzlu, Sultanhisar and Yenipazar are up from 22% to $2.84 cents per cent, and $2.90 per cent in trades. All these raises are above inflation. It is clear that the increases in the water schedule are not in line with normal conditions of life. I would like to remind you that it is unfair to our farmers and livestock feeders who water their land in our country that Aydın would receive water at these high prices, one of the hottest cities in Turkey. In addition, the solid waste cost, which has been one of the number of revenue pens in the district municipalities, which has not been collected by the city's city for a long time, was decided to reassemble through the judiciary, caused reactions to our citizens, both collectively and with interest, and put our citizens in a difficult position. In order to prevent such arbitrary practices of the state, in the existing city and the entire city law, the burden brought to our citizen's budget by measures taken in the laws related to them must be prevented from harm. This practice shows again that the implementation of the city's entire city law has had terrible consequences. Through serious study of this law, services must be properly carried out. One of the complaints from our farmers, who have agricultural-based economies, is that the manufacturer can't sell their goods at the cost of agriculture, and one of the complaints from the Mønderes River floods every year because of the high cost of input prices. In December 2015, the Menderes basin was flooded with isolated riots that caused the tear in the set to flood the land. Unfortunately, these outbursts take place almost every year. 5,000 acres of agricultural land were affected by the flood in the fields. Last year's rain per basin in the Menderes basin is 88.5% above average. Due to the changing climate conditions, increasing rains and floods, the necessary measures must be taken quickly so that there are no similar victims. Every flood of land is damaged, our farmers are damaged, our producers are damaged, and even worse, we are losing land because our land is flowing into the sea along with the floods of the Menderes River. The work is not enough, with alternative solutions to be produced. If this delays further, we'll lose even more. It's not just the extremities, we have problems with cleaning the Menderes River and the basin. From the Dinar Afyon, where the Menderes River was born, there is pollution in the land, because of the pollution of the river, the footman, Denizli, Aydın, all over the basin. It's not just Aydın's problem; it's everyone's problem, considering all Turkish or export goods that feed on the products of Aydın, as well as the products that go abroad. In fact, if we look at it this way, we can see that Aydın did not get the full share of the budget. Dear MPs, in the report of the Ihlas News Agency of 23/10/2016 -- I don't know if he is here, but -- Mr. Mehmet Erdem of the Justice and Development Party -- stated in his own interview, with a statement issued by Transport, Maritime and Communications Minister Ahmet Arslan in 2016. However, in the budget distributed by the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, we see that this road was intended to be completed in 2023, not 2016. This decision has failed our countrymen and long-distance drivers, who have been waiting for the highway to end as soon as possible, using this line between the port of Izmir and the interior. Again, I'm afraid the Crazy Airport was also among your promises of election, it's been a dream. Of course, there's a lot to be said about the budget. I, however, would like to address the staff, but first and foremost, I would like to remind you that my constituency, Aydın, is not getting the services he deserves from the budget. I think this needs to be fixed as soon as possible. I'd like to talk to you about budgets, again, staff. We've got a lot of graduate candidates waiting for recruits, young people waiting for jobs. In addition, projects for agricultural engineers, water products engineers and veterinarians, waiting to be appointed by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, must begin immediately. When they made their college choices and started school, our young people who had planned their futures based on these projects were forced to join the trained unemployed class because of the cancellation of these projects and the lack of proper proportions of staff. In the same way, instead of subcontractors and uneducated staff conducted in medical staff assignments, the job must be applied to those who have been trained and the subcontractor system must be abandoned. Article 128 of the Constitution shall be seen by the authorities and other civil servants of the state, the state's public economic initiatives and other public administrations on the basis of general administration. It is unfair to employ data preparation through subcontractors and subcontractors while waiting for the appointment of 35,000 teachers and pre-graduate medical secretary. A similar matter is related to the appointment of teachers. The KPSS (KPSS) system of appointment, based on rights and merit, should not be abandoned in all majors. Due to the investigations by the PDY, we know that 53,854 teachers have been suspended and only 7,000 of them have been extradited. Besides, we have retired teachers. 30,000 teachers were scheduled to be appointed in February 2017, but we currently have a large number of candidates, graduates. This teacher is supposed to keep our candidates' dreams intact, and they need to get jobs with appointments, and they need to be employed as soon as possible. Again, these candidates need to be put into office in a way where scientific knowledge and educational skills are measured objectively and objectively. Contractory teaching isn't the right thing to do. The interview system has to go down, and if it can't be removed, the interviews have to be recorded with a camera. I present all this to your attention, and salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0460par0170	Thank you. The second word is for the People's Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0461par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all at this hour of the night. I looked at the statement under the budget clause that I was talking about, and it said "dunge". Of course, it's a phenomenon we need the most, but we can't seem to keep up. Because a balanced budget is possible only in a balanced Parliament, in a balanced society, in a balanced opposition, and in a balanced state, which unfortunately we have not achieved. Yes, it's called a lot, we're at the end of the line, there's nothing left to say. I'm not in the same opinion. Parliament is a place of speech, a place of speech for the nation, because once the word is out, the weapon is always a candidate ready to fill its place. Balanced speech, balanced opposition should always be considered a mercy. It is a blessing to have opposition within my people, opposition, opposition voices. In that case, the CHP is a blessing, the MPP is a blessing, the HDP is a blessing. It is incumbent on the authorities to listen to what they say, and to say what they find wrong, and to say it in a proper manner, saying it in the right way, and to pursue the acceptance of what they know is right. Honourable lawmakers lie as a reason why such a picture of instability may not be solved by the problem of the Kurdish problem, which is almost gangrenised. In fact, instead of always staring at the stranger as hope, the Kurds had the hope of reaching this solution in the fashion of the day, nationally and domestically, with Kurdish, with Turkish, but each time they were disappointed. Look, the French offered the Kurds there in Kobani, when they invaded Rojava, Syria as a whole: "Leave us alone with the Arabs there, and we'll get you an autonomous Kurdistan around Kobani, but the Kurds refused to accept such an offer in accordance with the Turkish, Arab and Fars brotherhood. But after independence took place, in Syria, the Kurds were treated as discreet, foreign and alienated, unidentified. Same thing happened in Iraq. Look, when the Ottoman Empire is destroyed, the Kurds are the last people to abandon ship. I won't count who left here first, but the Kurds were the last to leave. But now we react when we hear the name Kobani. Look, let's read history, guys, the name Kobani is not Ayn El Arab. The Kurds of Kobani, who once lived there, were Arabs from around Rakka, there was a fountain in Kobani, a spring in Kobani, where the Kurds were resting and passing through, so they called it the Kaniya Ereban, the Arab Fountain, the Ayn Al-Arab. Hafiz Esed made the name known to the Kurds to include all Kobani, the name of Ayn Al-Arab, Hafiz Esed, but his Kurdish name, Kaniya Ereban, the Kurds, who had been resting at the head of that fountain, drinking water, and then leaving Arabs. For this reason, the Arab poet, Dr. Mohammed Maughut, is curious about Kobani, and is leaving. He says in the part about the Arabic poem:, I mean, I went to the same Al-Arab, but I didn't see any Arabs or water there, because I saw a spring because it was dry when I left. Now, there's been a mistake in getting to this point, a fact. The state has made mistakes, the organization has made mistakes, the opposition has made mistakes, and the power has. We have to solve this problem as a partner, just as we've uncovered it as a partner. It's said that in Syria, in Iraq, I don't know where, America is taking advantage of the YPG, America is taking advantage of the PKK, Russia is taking advantage of it, who knows who's taking advantage of it. So, what happened to us, why don't we know how to benefit from it? Look, a few of our fellow ministers, our president, our deputy -- whatever -- said these are our children. That's right, not people from outer space. If we're looking for a domestic and national solution in today's fashion, rather than america's partnership with them, Russia's partnership with them, then let's take advantage of them in this national and domestic project and we'll partner with them. Let us bring them to the Kurdish and Turkish people. As long as this isn't provided, this gangrene will continue. Look, the Ottomans did it very well. What did the Ottomans do? He managed and succeeded in combining the power of the Kurdish fiefdom that they had built themselves. That's how the Ottoman Empire rose. The Battle of Malazgirt rose because of the Kurds who contributed to it. The Ringing War was raised by Kurdish dignitaries that contributed to it. But when the principles of modernisation and centralization were introduced in the 19th century, that's where it happened. Thanks to modernization, no one has any objection, it's the edict of Tanzimat, it's the correction of the Second Mahmoud. But centralization was wrong. Centralisation has led Kurds away from the Turks, from Ottomans, from their governments because they have lost their special Kurdish fiefdoms, which they have gained by a thousand difficulties, and the problem has started after that, and the problem continues until today. So long as it lasts, there will be no peace in the land, nor will there be peace in the world. So let's say it again, this is the testimony of our sons -- the ministers -- how we can better give them to the Kurdish and Turkish people, which I believe and trust will be the greatest state in the world. And if you fail to do so, we'll go through trouble and trouble like this. My respects.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0462par0187	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Kerestecioglu, you've entered the system, I promise you by 60. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0463par0192	Mr. President, we have just received word that an attacker fired four shots at our headquarters with a shotgun, and then, outside the center, by civilian police -- he pulled the gun out of his palto and fired the gun -- was handed over by those who said it was the civilian police there. We now think that this has to be the end, and that the end can only be, truly, with the calls of the government, for self-reliant and peace by those in power.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0462par0194	Complete, please.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0463par0195	Because this criminalization of our party, the arrest of one of our MPs, the arrest of hundreds of our party administrators, the start of armed attacks, will bring up the political murders that we know very well in our history? It is the government that will prevent this, and it is the government that will truly ensure the survival of all citizens in this country, and it is not the calls for revenge and mobilization. Now everyone in this country, whether it's a cop or a civilian, whoever it is, has a will to live, not to die. I want to say this again in this Parliament, and I want to say out loud that we strongly condemn these attacks, that no one can stop us from democratic politics. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0462par0197	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Yes, and we strongly deny this attack, and we refuse to accept it, and in this context, we say, "Get well soon."
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0463par0201	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0462par0206	Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, it belongs to İstanbul MP Eren Erdem. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0464par0209	Mr. President, I'd like to begin by cursing again the terrorist attack in Istanbul on December 10th. Dear friends, we're coming to the end of the budget marathon. You've got a budget, you've got a lot of hands up, you've got a lot of downloads. There's a lot of numbers in your budget, but there's no underdogs, no pensioners, no contractors, no students, no dorms, no minimum wage raises, no women, no environment, no culture, no art, but thanks to you guys, there's no money to budget. There's no money, but there's more to life than money. For example, there are victims of the Blue Marmara whose case has been shut down by force, there are teachers who have been fired from their jobs, there are victims who have been expelled from their jobs without a crime, there are students who have been left without a teacher, there are Alevis who have been humiliated, pushed around at every turn, there are journalists who are arrested, there are underpaid people who have been left to hunger. I'd like to ask the Minister if the minimum wage workers are worth as much as Mehmet Genghis? (HPP) There is a saying from the Prophet: "When his neighbor is hungry, he is not of us. " How long can we claim that we bear this promise if we do not heed it? How can we get into bed and put our heads on the pillow when minimum wagers are moaning? Of course, it is necessary to ask when we will show half of the sensitivity we show to the minimum wagers when we reset Genghis' tax debt. Well, let's get back to the budget. Garam, a half-year-old baby who died of hunger in his mother's lap at the Adana Autogar. When we said, "We built a bridge." You're saying we've done the bridge. You're talking about refugees by nightfall. Yes, it is virtuous to protect refugees in some way. So we say that the three-year-old Nouf died of hunger in Izmir. You say that we built a bridge. Mr. Secretary, you're going to build bridges, you're going to build roads, but the problem is that when you build bridges, you're not going to collect on dollars. You will pay attention especially in this period of time when the dollar is rising. You're not going to tear down any more bridges when you build these bridges. You said Gaza, and we saw the Blue Marmara, and you delivered him to Israel. We will pray at Emevî Mosque. You said, Aleppo is a pool of blood today. Syrian lira -- friends, very interesting data, I don't know if anyone knows -- earned 10% against Turkish money. You say you're the leader of the world, you're stuck with the same class as Assad. Friends, ISIS cells... you've seen it, we've seen it over and over again. In the same way, the massacres in Ankara have been committed, it has been revealed that the killers have been arrested and released several times. The state has been handed over to the government, the army to NATO, and foreign policy to Putin. When we talked about them, you said, "We threw satellites into space." Yeah, well, you launched a satellite, but you created a ground where only the followers would broadcast. By the people's tax, you cursed the people, made it up, made it up, made it up, even if it didn't fit. Mr. Secretary, dear friends, you're doing a great deal of injustice to this community. You know why? You bring down the economy, the public cashes the dollars; you put the people into the state; you make a income, you make a coup, people pay the price for it with their lives and blood; you pay the social media trolls with taxes you collect from the people; you insult the elected MPs, and the people shut up; you deceive, you shut up; you endure hunger; but remember, if you try to take away their republic, democracy, they will come, and they will drop their iron fist in the chest, friends, and we will not forget that.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0465par0217	You've had an iron fist over and over again, and you haven't learned it yet.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0464par0218	The way these people resisted the fascist coup of American imperialism...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0465par0219	You've had iron punches over and over again, and you're still talking.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0464par0220	...and those who try to destroy the Republic will surely answer for it in the chest. But, look, I call upon you to challenge one thing, Mr. President Firstinur Ma'am: Come, don't do as you've done with this Constitutional package that you've brought to the House, let us organize the TRT. Let all political party leaders come out and discuss this package in public in a transparent manner. Are you in? If you're in, let's do this.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0465par0223	Don't be afraid of the people, don't be afraid.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0464par0224	You got the TVs, you got the newspapers, you put everyone else in jail who didn't think so. Here, let's make my suggestion, and let the people see what's what, white sheep, black sheep. Mr. Secretary, look, I want to give you an example. Friends with fake circulation through your press ads, fake circulations, 90 percent of the newspapers on this circulation list today, especially 90 percent of the newspapers that we describe as havul media. I'm a journalist, and I know how they do it. By nightfall, these newspapers are attacking the opposition. Your February 28th media said over and over to the Hi Tevhid file, including your deputies. There are a lot of people in this group named Salam Tevhid, and I'm one of them. Many people have been referred to as members of the organization in this case. Look, now, what's with all the pool media you guys have been feeding? Your media says: "This file is a plot, it is a forgery, it is fiction, but it is true that only the names of Eren Erdem." Until evening, it puffs and polishes the news of Fetullah Gülen. We've got a call out there to this pool media saying, since this file of Fetollah is so real, let them publish all the statements in it and let the public see it. This is a situation far beyond the 28th of February media, dear friends. The slander, the lie, the entanglement, the media points to the target, how old is Hüsni Mahalli, who has MS, who is being arrested, put in prison. Is it acceptable, does it fit your conscience, member of which organization, which organization does he claim to be connected to? Nothing. Friends, your media is the hit man, your judgment is the packager, your bridge crossing fee, your chief is the payer, your capital is Qatarlı, your undersecretary by Lockhart, your cabinet is the builder, your palace is on the run, your market forecasts are out, your Constitution is out of order, your health system is broken, your health system is broken, your eyebrows are broken, your intelligence is broken. No, guys, there's no order, there's no world like this. This isn't the State of Emergency, guys, it's not like that.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0466par0228	The result is the CHP opposition.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0464par0229	Now, if Ismet Flight is here... the AKP's Ismet Flight has a great service, a great service to Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0466par0230	The result is the CHP opposition. Go ahead.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0464par0231	Look, Ismet has published the books of Ali Shariati. I congratulate him, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0466par0232	What's the result? How many choices has it been? Opposition. You've lost 11 elections, you're talking.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0464par0233	Ali Shariati says: "All words spoken only in a place where the government speaks are lies. "
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0466par0234	Tell me, tell me! CHP opposition, result. What's the bottom line? The CHP has been in opposition for sixty-six years.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0464par0235	You call the EU a drag, and then you call it Shanghai. We went into Syria to take down Esad. You say, Putin, who we have handed over all the ropes to, suddenly makes a phone call, and we didn't say that. And you go and sign agreements with Russia, where you're in the exact opposite direction in the region, like Turkish Stream, nuclear power plant, and you make the country energy dependent.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0467par0236	Assad Aleppo, you're still defending Assad. Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0464par0237	Yesterday, you called us Russian agents, and now you're not leaving Moscow, the communist! You're cursing at the Communist, and now you're asking for help from China. This is not the way to run a country, dear friends. You can't handle Turkey. You've found the easy way. The person we've scribbled can't defend himself, can't find a screen to defend him. You say, "You're doing all sorts of operations." Journalists are under arrest. Hell, even Attila Stone is under arrest. Although, friends, with a piece called Ham Knellek, he had taken a huge blow to our country's democracy, Attila Stone, I accept that! Yeah, but that wasn't an arrest warrant, fellas. He was an Ataturkian patriot. Husni Mahalli, a patient of MS, suffered a great deal in custody because of his views on Aleppo. Look, guys, it's a name for electroshocking your leg every day. There are important allegations of his arrests, but since I don't have a document on this, I won't mention it here. I don't speak without papers, friends, I think you know us. Those who oppose your ideas are spies, those who oppose your ideas are traitors, those who don't think like you are enemies of this country! Guys, look, I'm telling you, for our people, we're not going to take any step back from fighting to live the democracy that 81 million deserve, to make it grow on the basis of a constitutional and genuine democratic country. We won't back down if the media is targeting us, and the prosecutors are instructed, and the package judge is targeting us. I'd like to read you a meaningful poem while I finish my words, dear friends. Nazim Hikmet says: Yes, I'm a traitor, if you're a patriot, if you're a patriot, I'm a traitor, I'm a traitor. If it's your country farms, The ones in your safes and checkbooks are home. Homeland, starving to death at the height of the chassis, If the country is shaking like a dog in the cold and suffering from malaria, In your factories, we drink our blood. If it's your father's nails, it's your brother-in-law's. If the country, the spear, the country, the police, the baton, Your grants, your salary, your homeland, Homeland, American bases, American bomb, U.S. Navy cannon, Homeland, not to get rid of our stinking darkness, I'm a traitor. I salute you all, friends.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0468par0257	Mr. President, for the record. In his speech, you declare those of you who don't think like you to be traitors. It's in the presence of 79 million people who know that we don't accept his accusations, that there's no such thing, that we're taking very expansive steps in our country on rights and freedoms, and that we're here on the basis of arrests and so on. I'd also like to point out that we're always open to criticism. We're already listening to the harshest reviews. It was important to get it on the record.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0469par0259	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz. Now, the first word on behalf of the individuals belongs to Müğla MP Hasan Özyer. Here you go, Mr. Özyer. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0470par0264	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on my own behalf on Article 4 of the 2015 Central Management Computation Act. I hereby salute the High Council. Today there is a great drama of humanity in Aleppo. Unfortunately, this drama remains silent in the Western world, especially the United Nations. Our wish is that the ceasefire as a result of our country's contacts will be permanent and that the region will quickly be at peace and peace. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, our country has been dealing with more terrorist organizations and terrorism than ever before. While our nation felt the pain of a traitorous coup attempt by the terrorist organization, it faced a new low-life attack. Unfortunately, the last PKK terrorist attack in Istanbul has killed a large number of law enforcement members and citizens. I curse the traitorous attack from here. I ask God's mercy on all of our martyrs who have given their lives for our country, and for our wounded, and for immediate healing. These attacks are attacks on Turkey's independence, the unity and unity of the Turkish nation, its sovereignty, the indivisible integrity of the state and its nation. Terror attacks will not be able to divert Turkey from its path. Turkey will move forward with more determination and determination than ever before. The Turkish nation is in this tenacity and resolution; let no one doubt it. Every time Turkey moves forward, develops and grows stronger, the low-down attacks against our country are increasing. The Turkish nation has seen this, and with the merger of state-nationality, it has taken action to resolve the problems. To lead Turkey to its goals, there is a great need for stability, peace, national will, democracy, human rights and the rule of law. It's impossible to talk about development and development where there are no values. We can only solve the country's problems with people who love their country, their people, who meet in common, who have experience, who have a license, who have integrity. We need wisdom, knowledge, control, institutionalization, national understanding, independent individuals, free thinking more than ever. Mr. President, good lawmakers, Turkey has grown and developed in many areas with successful work done in recent years. There have been significant developments in many sectors such as transportation, telecommunications, health, education, foreign trade, tourism. RD studies have been invested more than ever, and have been marked by significant achievements in the defence industry. Turkey is now able to build its native satellite, its tank and its weapon. Since 2002, national income per person has increased dramatically. There has been a high decline in inflation and interest. The interest rate of the state's internal debt bonds reaching 70 per cent has been reduced to 10 per cent today. Our resources have been offered the services of the real economy. Now, with state protection, support for unsustainable and unsustainable investments is over. The added value is high and has increased incentives for open sectors that produce global competition in areas that eliminate import dependency. We're further along with social government practices than most Western countries, but we shouldn't make the mistake of expecting all employment from the government. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, are these enough? Of course not. Turkey, which grows and grows day after day, needs new reforms in education, economics, the Political Parties Act, and many areas. The bar for universal standards is now too high. In this context, the crisis with the European Union certainly shouldn't drive us away from the norms of the European Union, but we need to build a structure even above Copenhagen and Maastricht Kriters, to develop Turkey, to integrate Europe and the world, despite the fact that it contradicts the European Union's double standards and its values. Turkey's future is through investment, production and employment. Capital savings, labor, employment growth and investments are the most important elements for our economy to grow. Structural reforms should be accelerated in the economy. The real sector must be strengthened and the competitiveness of global markets must be increased, and they must be made to invest more. Turkey should put more emphasis on scientific studies, such as physics, chemistry, science of science, nanotechnology and RD studies. The brand should create values. The country that missed the Industrial Revolution, its knowledge community, and its 4. He must not miss the age of 5G. We need to reach out to the information community through a competitive, qualified, and age-appropriate educational system that raises independent individuals. Our country, a democratic, secular, social law state, has the power to deal with any kind of evil with its dynamic structure. Political and economic stability must be maintained to the end, national consciousness and public awareness must be kept in the forefront. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the budget of 2017 to be good for our country and our nation, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0471par0273	Thank you, Mr. Özyer. On behalf of the second and last speakers, İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0472par0277	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to express my opinion today on the budget of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, the budget of an institution almost the same age as our republic. Before I begin my speech, Zeynel Odababaş, director of the Alevi Bektashi Federation, also chairman of the Alevi Cultural Associations Sargazi Pir Sultan Abdal Cemevi Association, has been taken into custody illegally, unfairly and in a way that we cannot accept, and has been questioned for three or four days. Obviously, I condemn the unlawful detention of the head of a camisole in this manner, and I demand that this life be released immediately. Dear lawmakers, the President of Religious Affairs, you know, was originally built on 3 March 1924, in place of the institution of sheikhism, an institution of Ottomanism. While this institution is being established, as the law is being passed, it is said that the law on human relations in the Republic of Turkey belongs to the Turkish Parliament and the government established by its government, and that other Islamic religion, which distinguishes good and evil, is established in the republic's capital for its beliefs and worship, is that it is the founding elements of the republic as an institution that should serve not only Islam, but other religions. Now, unfortunately, this institution has become this kind of institution, which is not objective, which is not known to whom it actually serves, and I don't think it serves our Sunni citizens, and unfortunately, it has reached a terrible budget. I'd like to express to you now, valued lawmakers: Look, I want to express to you that I respect all the beliefs that exist in our country, and I certainly don't want to be misunderstood.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0473par0281	You're clear, you're clear.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0472par0282	I may have been understood by you, but I respect Sunni citizens, and I respect non-Muslims.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0473par0283	Alevi, you're discriminated against as Sunni. Look, we're all brothers.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0472par0284	In this country, I respect the faith of everyone who is a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, who lives in the Republic of Turkey, and I think it would be good for you to respect it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0473par0285	Alevi, Sunni, we're all brothers here.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0472par0286	Yes, of course. Now, look, guys, in 2006, the budget of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, which has a budget of $1 billion 452,000, is raised to 6.8 billion in 2017. Let me give you another piece of information: In 1927, for the first time, there is a staff employment with the Budget Law, there are 7,172 staffs, but today, in 2015, there are 117,378 staff. You won't find a Flame officer of this 117,378 staff. I'm pretty sure there's no such staff. He's got the staff, he's got the general managers, he's got the office presidents. I'm not saying it because I'm making a distinction, but why not? This organization was established to coordinate the country's co-ordination -- use it for other purposes -- for the co-ordinating of all religious structures in Turkey. The founding will of a republic that was formed so that the state could coordinate, not interfere, then said: "Let's coordinate them, let them be free." But, unfortunately, as of this point, the Ministry of Religious Affairs has become a service only to one sect. We're against it. In fact, it is wrong to budget this institution, which should not be given. While all citizens of the Republic of Turkey have contributed to this budget, it is not right that they serve only one sect when they pay their taxes. How do we accept that? Of course it's not true. In fact, this Head of Religious Affairs needs to be abolished, their beliefs need to be free. I'd like to point out that this institution is no longer needed through the establishment of just one coordination committee to serve the democratic development processes. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0474par0291	Thank you. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. MADDE 5- (1), as shown in the ruler of state debt by the end of 2015; A) 440,124,283,273,14 Turkish Lira mid and long-term State internal debt, B) 237,985,062,341,18 Turkish Lira State foreign debt, C) 46,723,012,515,02 Turkish lira guaranteed loans, available. The first word for the groups on the matter is for the National Movement Party Group under the name of Muğla MP Mehmet Erdogan. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0475par0304	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 5th Amendment of the 2015 Central Management Act of Accounting, on behalf of the Nationalist Action Party Group, and I hereby salute your grand delegation and our beloved citizens who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. At the beginning of my words, I curse the atrocities that continue in Aleppo, and call upon the Lord God to bring this violence to an end at once. Again, in the evening hours of this evening, our Mugla was shaken by an earthquake of 4.2, and I wish all our countrymen well. Of course, 2016 has been a long year in the fight against terrorism. As the state of our country continues in its extraordinary state, it is time for all of them to settle down by speaking the language he understands with all the terrorist organizations that threaten our country's unity and support. As long as terror invades our country's agenda, we can't talk about our nation's real problems. In this regard, terror must be completely removed from our country's agenda by using the resources it provides to combat terrorism in the right and fast manner. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have passed a law on solving the AKP's 2/B problem, and we've met this law three times on different dates, and each time we've explained their mistakes, their shortcomings. At the point where we're here today, two-by-bs and the villager's farms have become irreparable. Because of the Metropolitan Law, citizens in towns that were even worse off than the village couldn't buy their treasured farmland under 2/B. Recently, in our Seydikemer district, we have listened to the troubles of our citizens in the former village of Karadere Neighborhood. In our meetings with our citizens, we asked if there were no debts. He said he didn't owe just one of our manufacturers. Then, as the conversation progressed, we learned that our brother hadn't been able to pay his BUG-KUR bonuses in four years. There's no way these brothers and sisters are going to be able to pay their wages for half the cost of producing the tomato they're producing today, Mr. Secretary. Both our producers and our tourists are in a very difficult situation today. It's not possible for anyone to pay for these big high-end missiles. Mr. Secretary, do you have any intention of solving our citizens' high-profit problem? Do you intend to come up with a permanent solution to problem 2/B? Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as a result of the wrong and incompetent foreign policy imposed by the AKP's government, the tourism sector in our Mugla today has become breathless, as well as the agricultural sector in agriculture. The export of fruits and vegetables has stopped. That's why the property in our Mugla is changing hands. Of course, as a result of the total collapse of these sectors, our tradesman in the Mugla has become unable to breathe. Mr. Minister of Finance, in this case, who are you going to get the taxes from? In this case, neither the tradesman nor the farmer will be able to pay taxes. In these circumstances, I'm going to try to express to you from the poet's language that our expectations for the 2017 budget have run out of hope. Perhaps you'll be blessed with what the poet says! With this budget, the fleets of ships will rise, The weight of the fellow businessman, Keep tightening the belt. It seems that now, It's not gonna be the farmer's silos this year. I will inform you of my home town of Mughlah, Every day there's a song of rebellion, The choir of voices from the dorm, the cry of the citizen, Touch it and hear it, from Medieca, from Ula. The burden of every farmer's life, He gets tangent again, budget law, He took pesticides, pulled money from the bank, He owes money to everyone, he's blind. It'll cost a lira a pound of tomatoes, For sixty cents on the dollar, God bless. And now you're not working for food. If there's no income, tell me, what will the farmer eat? The greenhouse is crying blood all over Mughla, The shopkeeper can't open a shop, he pawned the car, Hotels closing in the basement, Marmaris, He's running away from the landlord, he's a tenant. That's a price you can't pay a beggar, It's sold for thirty cents a citrus, The bank grabs it, takes its price, The father can't give the student an allowance. The rich farmer's property rots in his hand, The leaf doesn't move in Karagulha, He thinks in darkness, and in bed, and in Kablah, Six pounds, no blessings in his honey. Milas' olives, olive oil, Dalanan, the dry vineyard of the village, the garden, Support his domestic property in the budget, Just don't make this a favor to me. The cities have collapsed by the city law, Do you have any idea what it's like, Seydikemer? Because he held the track high close to the beach, No crops, no reapers, they're pathetic. The field he planted by law 2/B is gone, The IRS calculated five years of primordial, Four years of BUG-KUR debt, don't add that to the account, We asked, there's a debt-free person in Karadere! With a high-budget payday with a black-and-dweller, They're prisoners. They're bureaucratic. Bring down the wages, and be strong in your sorrows, Or else they'll leave the debt to the next generation. It's not a budget. It's a hanging tree. And if he does not sell, then the pomegranate will be cut off. Here we have tourism, agriculture, the pole, the economy, How can he stand, if you cut down every tree? Türku der "Ferayi's name is Farayi" Thanks to you, he melted down the dollar. Now he's gonna pay me back. Worker, officer, retired, if he could find the money The minimum wage went up, but no one saw it. The dollar's gone, there's no raise. You were hoping he'd die. He's so tough. He's fighting it. He's retired. He didn't die out of spite. Why can't you look at a friend? The construction business has stopped. What should the worker do, master? He can't sell the stone, the trade's all gone The marbler's work is hard, it's like he's all in mourning. The bait price is running out of fishing. People are making and selling for nothing. We're running out of credit now. There's no pencil in the budget It'll make the faces smile He's going to kill the dying industry. ♪ On the tax of trust ♪ ♪ Mazotin, cigarettes ♪ If he can't produce it, how can he pay taxes? "I'm out of the dump, and my head is safe. I'm not. Everyone knows that. It's not classified. Terror strikes everywhere, the country is a bloodbath. Foreign policy is broken, it's not good. The bomb, the gun explodes, the saplings are being shot Stop this terror, those who don't come back It's not just talk, so wake up and take precautions. We must pay for those who did this to us. Unemployment broke record during AKP period Your troubles, your complaints never cease People are moody now, they've run out of hope. What really happened, there was an EU dream. With six hundred thousand graduates, it's a monument to unemployment. Hundreds of thousands of teachers waiting to be appointed Sixty thousand agricultural engineers without a job The budget doesn't offer improvements to student problems. Take a serious look at the terms of education No poor, peasant power, no home in the city Put the weight on the student dorms now Don't wait for this inconsistencies. Neither a hotel works nor an open site The basement, Marmaris, waits desperately in Dat. The tourists didn't come, the flies didn't come. Dear citizens, this promise is for everyone. Go out and drink a cold water to Belen Coffee. No one can hear you anymore. Everyone's in their own business. Notice your strength, choose the right power He's given up on you, Master of the Aegean. It's blocked, it's not heard. It's Kerimoglu's voice. Pencils put in place so that menstruation can take place There's no way the AKP's budget I'll tell you what, Ashsha Villager Crusader And this year, there's no money for Mentheþe to Mudla, Dear citizens, fellow countrymen. Hope for another spring; rely on this budget. With these feelings, I salute you all, and wish you well in the budget.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0476par0420	Thank you. The second word on behalf of the groups belongs to Diyarbakır MP Nimethullah Erdoğmuş on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Erdoğ.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0477par0424	Mr. President, members of the House, I salute you all. The year 2016, indeed, has been a heavy test for us. When I say heavy testing, let me read a poem from the NFK: ▪ What a heavy trial, at your head, Sakarya! How can a canary carry a thousand-headed eagle? And I'd like to share a few lines of Akif. Isn't it the morning of this ominous night? Apocalypse or the salvation of the helpless. We asked for a light, you gave us a fire. 'We're screwed! 'We said, you're sending blood to drown.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0478par0433	You're reading it wrong, it's wrong.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0477par0434	I'll fix it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0478par0435	Correction, yes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0477par0436	I'll fix it. Don't you have a bad night's morning? Are you helpless in the end, or are you blessed in the end? We asked for a light, you gave us a fire.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0479par0440	You're sending fire.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0477par0441	You're not sending it, you're giving it to him, please look at him. We said, "We're burned."
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0480par0443	Teacher, you're ruining everything.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0477par0444	You're sending blood to the throat. That's fair enough. Dear friends, dear friends, actually 2016 was the year of two mandatory meetings. One of these mandatory meetings was the meeting of depressions and crises, and the other was opportunities and opportunities. If this meeting, this mandatory union, had been really crowned with democracy, I'm sure it wouldn't have been a bloody year, a bitter year, a painful year in history like this. Look, I'd like to share one thing: Now, our co-Chairs, our deputies, our mayors are inside, they're under arrest. This is not possible if you are trying to weaken the People's Democratic Party and, as a result, put it out of democratic politics; this is not possible. Because political parties have their lives up and down. I'd like to complete my promise by sharing a matter with you from Diyarbakır. Actually, it's not the parties that are getting weaker, believe me, it's politics that's getting weaker right now. Tomorrow, perhaps you will seek the effort and zeal of this party, not on earth, to strengthen politics. I'm not saying don't get hurt anymore. Why don't I say don't be offended? Because sometimes, if you have a bony fracture on your bones, that bone can repair itself, even though it's not a physician, it has a desire to repair itself in the form of a bridge in its own form, but I'm not talking about the anxiety of breaking, I'm talking about a rupture, an emotional rupture, just like a nerve artery breaking. Just as he wanted to repair himself when the nerve artery broke, instead of shrinking, retreating, and the deepening of that rupture, the discovery of a crippling consequence, of course, is that if politics were to weaken like this, democracy and politics of the country would also be severely injured. I want to give you an example, it's a bit about medicine, not my profession, but what I've read, I'd like to share. Dr. Edward, who found the vaccine for smallpox, the deadliest disease of his time, tries it on his own child first; it's a very important thing. I'm just saying, at this point in the country, it's good to think about it a little bit more. Dear Regents, dear friends, we have a legacy, a shared legacy. I won't go into the details of this common heritage, but I just want to present an example of our common heritage. We have a saying, a saying. It is said that our bones are in the same grave. It is often used for hostility. If the brothers and sisters were to engage each other, it would be a word that would remind them of their past, their fathers, their fathers, and the union of their fathers in history. We refer to it in Zazaca. Our bones are in a grave. If we don't want to pass on this enemy brother and sister to future generations for our common future, we may be the winners of this ongoing heavy trial. Behold, the greatest trial is to be remembered. In fact, the trial is such a heavy, insurmountable test that it's almost the name of big problems that we can't get out of, that we can't get out of. A trial like this... right now, I'm referring to it as a test, which means that the term fitness, the concept of fitness, is close to 20 percent -- let there be no property. I'm talking about a trial trial. This is a test in which the age and the dry burn together in the form of an explanation and expression of the description of a great fire. As we complete this year and the budget shares our shift here in this last hour, he wishes the budget to be good and to be complete together in 2016 with a brotherly peace and a fraternity reunion, and I wish you all good nights, good years, I offer you all my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0481par0454	Thank you. On behalf of the groups, the last talk is for the Republican People's Party Group, the Corum MP, the Flood Köse. Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0482par0458	Mr. President, we have come to the final days of negotiations on the 2017 budget, but we will finish tomorrow, but lawmakers from opposition parties have made it very clear that we have not seen anything in this budget that leads to any of Turkey's scorching problems or any of our people's countries, and I regret to inform you that we have not seen anything that has been able to fix it. Today, when we discuss the budget, our government, our country, 80 million people, our citizen, is going through a difficult time. We're having one of the deepest crises in the history of the Republic. Everywhere we touch it, it's falling apart. In the bombing in Beşiktas last week, we lost 44 citizens, 34 of whom were police officers in their 20s. I bow before the memory of them all, my condolences to their grieving families, wishing them all a paradise. And my condolences to our nation. Of course, those who were killed in this attack are not just police officers, not civilians; but also our grounds to live together as equal and free citizens in this attack; it is also our will to live together as equal and free citizens; and at the same time, our future has been slaughtered and slaughtered by these attacks. Now, for the past few days, the Aleppo issue has been being debated in our parliament and in the Turkish press, and I'd like to talk a little bit about it. First of all, I would like to point out that we strongly condemn the murder of civilians, innocent people, no matter where they are, no matter who they are, no matter who they are, no matter who they are. We condemn the massacres of the Assad regime in that sense and the massacres against civilians. However, like Nusra, we also condemn the same courageous, courageous, and violent massacres of terrorist organizations directly linked to Al Qaeda. I wish to condemn the massacres against civilian citizens who want to leave Aleppo, and the press members who are speaking in the language of the ruling party and the ruling party. My dear friends, as Republican People's Party, we want peace and stability to come to Iraq and Syria, all Islamic geography. We have to admit, as long as there's a war going on out there, we don't see the possibility of peace and stability coming to our country. As long as there's a war going on, we'll have people who want to scratch our bleeding wounds, people who want to dig them out, countries who are imperialists, we'll never let that happen. Let us also acknowledge that the possibility of the war ending in Syria has been strengthened by the transition of control over Damascus in Aleppo. The possibility of the war ending in Syria and Iraq will also prevent our bleeding wounds from being opened. My dear friends, of course, are a dictatorial regime in Assad Syria. The question, however, is that the power, with other dictatorial regimes of the region, with Saudi Arabia, with Qatar, trying to take down Assad, or once arm in arm with Assad, has made the sincerity of today's Assad anti-Assad to be questioned. It is not possible for us to view this attitude as a democratic stance or a stand against the oppressor. In this sense, the view of power to today's Assad (Assad) raises other questions for us, and I'd like to consider that in another speech. Moreover, this power has already forgotten prayer in Damascus, and is proud to contribute to the truce in Aleppo. We're all watching, by the way, and we know that the Assad regime is now exposed to this power. I think they're talking through Russia, so we're contributing to the truce. I told you, everywhere we touch, we're falling apart. One of the most important reasons for the increase in the terrorism we live in by concentrating is the inadequacies of power in foreign policy. Do you realize that we have no friends left in the world but Pakistan? Oh, and by the way, there's Israel. However an agreement was made, the blood of our people, who were slaughtered on the Blue Marmara, was, unfortunately, sold by power, with a $20 million gift -- look, it's not compensation. Now, in this sense, when Mr. President was Prime Minister, in 2014, I think he was speaking on July 16, 2014, he says, "Where did the Humanitarian Aid Foundation go? He was doing humanitarian aid in Somalia, Palestine, Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, Myanmar, and even in Ağıger. What did you want with it? They say it's a charity that's willing to die. Returning, on June 29, 2016, he says, "Who gave you permission to bring such humanitarian help?" After two years of his speech, he sells, according to me, and delivers to Israel. My dear friends, I said that we are bad with the European Parliament, bad with the European Union, bad with our neighbours, bad with Egypt, bad with Libya, bad with Greece, bad with Russia. Tourists don't come from Russia, Germany doesn't come from Germany this year. We can't trade, and our tradesman is in very, very bad shape. Everywhere we throw it, it's torn to shreds; the education system is bankrupt. The classic secondary schools and high schools in secondary school were replaced by imam-hatip upper secondary schools. We're not against imam-gap high schools, but classical education, imam-hakim-happiness, dear friends, there's no such educational system. For example, even in my hometown of Çorum, there were 21 imam-hatip high schools in the center. I'm asking, do I need all these imam-hats, do I need that many imams? I was in Ostim and Sincan Organised Industries this weekend. They put flyers on the walls, and they say, "We're looking for a CNC operator. We're looking for a welder. But we're looking for an Imam." I'm afraid I didn't see an ad. Fill up the diet, you've made an empty space; from there, imam, then transfer to public enterprises. Now, on December 5, 2016, the results of the International Student Performance of the OECD have been announced; among the 72 countries, we are 52 percent in science; we are 50 percent in reading; we are 49 percent in mathematics. In 2003, these are the opposite; in science, we are 33, we are 52, we are 35, and we are 35 in mathematics. So we're almost half short. Now, the economy is in a deep crisis. You're flippin' the numbers. In one day, the national income -- even though the last quarter narrowed down to 1.8 -- you increased it, up to 1,700 dollars, but they don't eat it anymore. The unemployment rate has risen to 20 percent. One out of every five young people is unemployed. We have 17 million poor people. 27 million people can't bring chicken, meat, fish into their homes every two days, they can't put them on their table. Our debt, which was $97 against $100 in 2002, went up to 118 liras today. Cari found $37 billion open. The dollar is $3,500. We've become one of the five most corrupt countries in the world in revenue distribution. So neither our national income has increased nor our income has increased. Well, you know what's up, my dear friends, dear AK PARTY, what's up? Look, the number of prostitutes with 100,000 in 2004 is up to 300,000 in 2014. I'm not saying this, it's called the National Gazette, a government that describes it as a conservative democrat. We're going to raise a religious generation. Over the past 12 years, he's multiplied the number of prostitutes to three. The number of drug users has increased. The number of respondents to AMATEM has increased by 1.781 per cent and the age of drug use has dropped below 15. Divorce is up, 1.6%, marriages are down. In your nationalist, conservative time of power, our national income has not increased, but the number of prostitutes has, unfortunately, increased. Freedom of the press... the number of arrested journalists has exceeded 150. Look, my brother Eren Erdem has just told me that Hüsni Mahalli with MS was arrested today only because of his views on Aleppo. The Republic newspaper has been published. Outside the pool media, there's almost no press, there's no media, guys. When it comes to this, we're not really a very long-run country, we're being run by the State of Emergency decrees. We've become a land blessed by death. What's the government's job? Killing people or keeping them alive? The ministers are going to live in a country where they're going to live, the mayors are going to be martyrs, and I want to be martyrs. While this is the case, Mr. President says, "I will be president." He says, "Applicate the situation to the Constitution." Brother, do you obey the Constitution, is the actual situation fit for the Constitution, is there such a thing? So in the meantime, when terrorism was in the balance of the economy, when President AKP was from the AKP, when he was from the AKP, when he was from the Ministry of Interior, the President of the MIT, the Minister of the National Defence, the governors, who was guilty when they were all from the AKP? Republican People's Party! We say: "Fie on you! If you do not fear Allah, then fear Him." We refer you to God. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0483par0482	Thank you, Mr. Köse. The first statement on behalf of the individuals is from İstanbul MP Hüseyin Burge. Here you go, Mr. Burge. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0484par0487	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on the 5th article of the 2015 Central Management Computation Act on behalf of myself. Therefore, I salute your grace, my dear fellow lawmakers, my beloved nation. At the beginning of my words, Istanbul Beşiktas, they say that we were victims of a traitorous terrorist attack in Beşiktas, but I want to remember the souls of the soulless, the souls of those who sold it to others in the terrorist attack, the brothers of the police, the civilians and all our martyrs by mercy from my Lord. And to our veterans, I pray for immediate healing from His Holiness. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, we can't ignore the crime of humanity in Aleppo -- all our fellow lawmakers -- in Aleppo. In Aleppo, where mankind was slaughtered, we see the crime of humanity again, in front of the world, in front of the hypocritical Europe, in front of the face of the face of the face of the United Nations. Not long ago, we saw them in Gaza, and in the Srebrenica massacre on July 11, 1995, we saw our brothers slaughtered in front of the United Nations again. I ask God's mercy for all our martyrs. We've come with a gift, I'll go with a witness. The honorable President, who says, "The world is greater than 5," is once again understood by what he means. I just think our brothers who came to our country of mercy again in the way of Aleppo, I hope they will find a cure in our pit of mercy. When the central budget is discussed, we, again, vote against the budget of the AK PARTY, which we bring to the agenda by our MPs at the opposition party. I don't think it's a skill at all. The AK PARTI government has been the central budget for 15 years. In democracies, approval is just a nation. I'd like to emphasize once again that there's no politics in spite of people. Respected lawmakers, for those who don't hear, for those who don't see, for those who don't understand, for those who don't understand, for our budget-related brothers, our ministers, our Budget Commission, and our friends, I'd like to talk to you about a few topics. In 2002, Turkey -- when we bring up 2002 -- some of our friends get hurt, but -- let's just say that 100 lira goes to $86, while $14 goes to interest. The exchange reserves were $28 billion in 2002, and now they're over $100 billion. The 60 billion-treasure source for budget investments in 2016 is estimated to be 78 billion by 30 per cent in 2017. Let's say that income per person has tripled since 2002. And in 2002...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0485par0493	How much did the debts go up, the debts?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0484par0494	I'll tell you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0485par0495	Huh, tell me.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0484par0496	Mr. President, I would like to express to you that our esteemed fellow MP, as our Prime Minister put it, is our supply from Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, Osman Gazil Bridge, to the faster train, to the nation, all the things that are being done, but at the end of the promise, because many poems have been read, Necip Fazil Simurek has also responded to these poems, assuming that Necip Fazil Shortsek has responded to these poems, and I don't know whose job it is to look for art Allah / Marifetttttttt, the rest is just a steel mess. I don't know who't know who's going to play with steel. Our supply is to our beloved nation. I wish you all the best in our budget in 2017, and I wish you all the best in the world.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0486par0499	Thank you, Mr. Burge. The second and final statement belongs to Lord Erkan Aydın. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0487par0503	Thank you, Mr. President. I've made a pledge on foreign debt regarding the 2015 Central Management Final Accounting Bill. I salute your High Council and the citizens who follow us on their screens with respect and love. For the past two weeks, we have been making important assessments of both our politics and our economy, voting on volumes and pages on budgets, and avoiding this situation, but in fact, Deputy Prime Minister Mehmet Simsek sums it up in the best possible way, he said: "Turkey is having the most difficult time since World War I." He made it very clear what the AKP's power has brought Turkey into its struggle for life. Now, let's see, outside debt. Turkey's foreign debt, as of the third quarter of 2016, is $421.4 billion, and the private sector's short-term loan from abroad is $16.8 billion in October, and its long-term foreign debt is 207.6 billion. Sooner or later, a country with a problem with currency has to pay off those debts by making more money than it spends. Moreover, the proportion of foreign debt to the annual production of the economy has reached the highest level since the 2001 crisis, but today it is 60 per cent. The amount of foreign debt Turkey must pay by September 2016 is 164.7 billion dollars. When you add a year's current deficit to it, it needs about 200 billion dollars. These numbers go on and on. Who, then, is the reason for the most difficult days since World War I? How did we end up like this? What policies caused this? The result, of course, is the policies, economies, of 14 years of AKP power. Everyone knows that the standard of democracy in the country, the standard of freedom, the existence of independent institutions, is proportional to the economy. If the President of this country is the President of the Central Bank and the President of the Central Bank at the same time, that's where it comes in. So, the investor flees from a country where people's property is seized overnight by the State of Emergency decree, independent institutions, without functioning law, where one man decides everything -- and so does the country's economy -- and its economy weakens or collapses. Especially for countries like us, whose economy stands on foreign resources, it's an inevitable end. And if he's going to stay here, he's going to want a high interest rate in exchange for his risk. If you can't give me confidence, give me high interest. And that -- it shows -- it's not a reason, it's a consequence that would make our country's economy worse. When the situation is so clear, the government tells the public to spare your currency, give them their money, and let them go. And I say, "Then first sew it yourself." The speaker just told me that four or five years ago, you made those contracts over dollars and euros, call the companies, and translate them into TL. You've tied some of them up for 22 years, some of them for 30 years. The third airport, Genghis-Limak-Kolin, was given to third bridge Interior-Astaldi, Osman Gazi Bridge Nurol-Özltın-Makyol. I mean, you've even put a hundred-and-fifty-year-old baby in debt, which can be considered a postmodern version of capitalization. Look, where we come from, in foreign policy, in economics, in domestic policy, we have a major breakdown in every field, and you still don't learn from it and give up the wrong policies. Again, from your cabinet, Culture Minister Nabi Avcı sums it up in one sentence, saying we need a prayer. And from here, God says to those who put Turkey in this situation, let the mind, the mind, the mind, the conscience give you all respect.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0488par0513	Thank you. I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. MADDE 6- (1) It takes effect in the history of the Law publication. The first statement on the article belongs to İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0489par0522	Thank you. And I begin my words with respect for the victims of terror, God rest his soul. My dear friends, budgeting is the most important duty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, even in the Constitution of 1982, which we don't like. Many articles describe what the budget means and how it will be done. My dear friends, budgetary, budgetary rights have been achieved in a very important, serious struggle, and democracy is indispensable. National sovereignty can be registered with the right of the budget. But, unfortunately, there is a demonstration of democracy in Turkey. Our friend, who was just speaking, said, "Strike me," and he said, "The minister is going to read the gazal." That's how we use budgetary rights, and then we say, "This doesn't happen with the parliamentary system." My dear friends, human history is actually a right, a legal struggle. This has been so since Abel and Cain. This right, along with budgets, is registered with the right to the right of the budget, the legal struggle has been tried by law, and our Constitution has recorded it. But, unfortunately, we don't use them properly. I'm a member of the Plan and Budget Commission, I see it there. We, for one, spend certain accounts without talking, without arguing, without knowing what it means. We're not going to be able to use the budget rights, the rights of the nation in any way without setting up a final account commission. My dear friends, you have come with a number of complaints, you have spoken of the child's system, you have spoken of right, law, justice, but after you have taken over the system, you have no complaints, you have used all of their institutions head over heels. And now you're saying that this parliamentary system, it doesn't work, it doesn't work; we're going to go into the presidential system. Why doesn't this parliamentary system work, my dear friends? This parliamentary system does not function because it was injured by the coup law by the Constitution of September 12th. Instead of fixing these, you're bringing in something more crippled than this. Burhan Hodja sits across from me, Mr. Burhan Lamb, saying nothing but the presidential system. What kind of presidential system are you bringing in? Here's the presidential system you've brought: the president will be party president, we'll write down the list of party MPs, we'll make the election at the same time; then we'll come, we'll appoint half the high judiciary as President, and the other half will be appointed by the President; then we'll call it executive, legislative, judicial. There's no such thing, there's no such thing. My dear friends, in fact -- our friends have spoken, said -- nothing is going well. Really, the economy isn't working, the budget is very clear. We've seen these things before, with these kind of panic-induced, palliative measures. There are serious problems. Democracy is lame, it doesn't work. Fifty things have been said about rights and freedoms, and I won't repeat it. Nothing's going right, and you know it, and everybody knows it, but most importantly, social peace has been seriously damaged. There has never been a period in the history of the Republic where social peace has been so corrupted, people have become so polar, they have become so hostile to each other. My dear friends, if we don't establish social peace, whether it's the presidential system or the parliamentary system, we're not going anywhere. With its opposition, we can only establish social peace by building a political system in which everyone will find themselves, regardless of their powers, different identities, sects, lifestyles, whatever, but there is no such thing. The spiritual nature of society has been severely corrupted. And then you say, "There's a higher mind. There's no such thing, my friends. Don't look for a mysterious liability as a superior mind. You guys have been running this country for 15 years. Who's the superior mind? There's always been America, there's Europe, there's Russia, there's Iran, there's the Gulf, there's kingdoms, there's the Sisis, there's Assad, there's the dictators, there's the Gulf kings, there's all of them. They have terrorist organizations; they have PKK, they have ISIS; they have all of them. So, where are we? Don't we have brains? Why are we transferring responsibility to a vague, mysterious force, my dear friends? That's not the problem, it's us, my dear friends. That's the problem with whoever's been running this country for 15 years. Now, with the upper mind, you're tricking people all over again. My dear friends, your main problem is that you lose to your ambitions. You guys have power poisoning. Yeah, but there's a fear under him, too. The ground we're standing on has the fear of slipping under our feet, not just power poisoning. It triggers power poisoning. There's something else, a serious problem, your sense of democracy. You guys are trapped in a majority fetishism. I don't understand why Osman hasn't yelled in the back so far, 49 percent, 49 percent.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0490par0534	Are you calling me? There's bullying.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0489par0535	Yeah, you got 49 percent, and you run this country. No one has any objection to that, but democracy is not a majority, my friends. Democracy is essentially the name of the regime where the few are entitled, protected by their law, protected by their right of speech, dear friends, but you split the nation in two, 49% to one percent, 51% to the other. You say 72 million is one nation, but you have singled this nation out, my dear friends. You're not going anywhere by shutting everyone up, shutting everyone who's opposed. Your Secretary General has come out, and this is the national security issue of this country, the President of the Republican People's Party, the President of the Main Opposition Party. He said, "I am ashamed; I am ashamed." Another deputy of yours came out, counted the Republican People's Party on the list of terrorist organizations. Shame on you guys and think about what you're doing. Don't you want to stop once and ask me, dear friends of mine, what did we do wrong, and what did we do wrong while he was searching for it? Yes, there may also be presidents here, but when we divide a nation, then we divide a people in two and provoke one another, who will benefit from the presidency that comes out of here, dear friends? That's not what's done. That's not what's done. Look, I'll tell you what's wrong with people. There's no nation based on one identity, one way of life, no way. It's not democracy, it's not human, it's not religious. The Prophet didn't build such a nation in Medina, my dear friends. The Prophet did not form an ontological, racial, religious, religious state in Medina, but he formed a moral, righteous nation. (CHEERING) That's right, my dear friends, you don't do that. What binds a nation, what binds citizens together is the country and the constitution, the country and the social contract. And the country is not just a piece of land. Yes, we call it home, we call it Turkey first, but not just because it's a piece of land, but because it's a place where the freedom and honor of man is guaranteed, we bless the land, we call it country first, dear friends. (HPP applauses) But that religion, that religion, that religion, no matter what the way of life, no matter what the way of life, is with the power of all people, with the power of all people, with the identity of A, with the identity of B. But in democracies, as a result, the final word is taken by the finger, and that's what the chosen majority does. But this elected majority governs the country within the law. It gives the few the right to oppose. You don't know, dear friends, you say it's us. There's no such nation, my friends, you're wrong. There is no people like this, there is no people like this. That understanding, as a result, goes to totalitarianism, to authoritism, to fascism, my dear friends. Look, the only man you're going to choose, the only man you're going to refer to is the angel, the human. That's not gonna happen, my dear friends. All humans will be audited. Religion also commands you to warn you, warn you, remind you of goodness, because people forget, my dear friends. Isn't your leader such a normal person? Anything else, my dear friends? I wouldn't want Mr. President to be president in a system like this, dear friends. You're doing it wrong. Look, Turkey is home to all of us, Turkey is home to all of us, it's honor to all of us, let's not forget that. Remember one more thing. Look, you're an Islamist party, or you're the past, you took off your shirt or something.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0491par0542	Conservative Democrat.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0489par0543	But you lost. Let me make you a suggestion. Look at some Tunisian...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0492par0544	Look at you!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0489par0545	...look at Gannushiki, examine, then see what democracy is, how a conservative, religious team is an example of democracy. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0493par0548	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0494par0549	Look at you first!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0489par0550	I'm looking at myself, I'm looking at myself; you look in the mirror, you look in the mirror, you don't see yourself in the giant mirror!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0495par0553	Mr. President, Mr. Bachelor, he gave a speech here and criticized us. Of course, it's natural to criticize. I'll give him a piece of advice. Now, the orators that come out here at different times use this expression: "You have polarized Turkey, you have destroyed social peace, people are polarized, people are moving away from each other." Now, there's got to be a basis for this. My advice to him is...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0496par0554	That's the truth.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0495par0555	Have them do a poll on this, see if there's anything like this in society, or not? Because, unfortunately, he misreads society, but unfortunately, I'm sorry to say, his other findings are wrong. I'm sorry to have to express it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0496par0556	You don't realize your virtual reality.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0495par0557	And I'd like to remind Mr. Bachelor: Here's what your Secretary General said to our president. Well, I told him before, Mr. Bachelor, of course there's a criticism in politics, but...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0497par0558	You're screwed, Bachelor.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0495par0559	Is it a criticism to call a elected president a didictator?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0498par0560	It's a criticism.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0499par0561	It's a criticism.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0500par0562	It's a criticism.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0501par0563	That can't happen.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0502par0564	What do you mean, it can't be? Why can't it be?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0501par0565	You criticize its actions, but it's another thing to say "diktator"; it's another thing to say "diktator" is someone who doesn't come by choice.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0503par0566	Why didn't they call him the didictator? Why didn't they call him Ecevit?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0501par0567	Now, he's got to make a sound first, Mr. Bachelor. I expected him to react before anyone else.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0503par0568	Hitler came by choice, Hitler!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0504par0569	It's not appropriate for Fidel Castro fans to call our President "The Dictator."
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0505par0570	If he was a dictator, you wouldn't be talking like that.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0506par0571	Congressmans, please... Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0507par0573	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0506par0574	Mr. Hodja, how is this the president? In fact, he gave you a tease, but you're telling me all over the place how he's president.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0508par0575	Not in my teacher's class.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0506par0576	Mr. Bachelor, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0508par0577	Not in my teacher's class, please...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0506par0578	Congressmans, please, I'm listening to Mr. Bachelor. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0509par0580	I want words according to 60.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0506par0581	Here, I'll give you my word for 60.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0510par0582	But what's the result? CHP opposition. There's nothing to be done, brother. Work, be strong. And? CHP opposition. Eleven choices, bury in the chest.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0511par0583	Almost there, almost there! Two years left!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0506par0584	Mr. Bak, I promised Mr. Bachelor. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0512par0587	Mr. President, my dear friends, I didn't say that the Justice and Development Party didn't get 49 percent of the vote, that's exactly what I said was wrong with them. These friends think that being a majority is everything, and they put themselves in the people's shoes, that's the problem, that's your problem and that's the problem with Turkey. You divide this country by declaring yourself the patrons of most people, by not seeing others, by making enemies of others, by demonizing them.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0513par0588	Never, they're all our friends. It's wrong to think of such a thing, we don't accept it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0512par0589	It won't work for you or anyone else, whether you're president or not, I told you that. So, Mr. Group Vice President doesn't have to go public again. That's what I'm saying, that's what Turkey's problem is; that's the case with friends who are not cut out of democratic culture.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0514par0591	Thank you. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Van MP Lezgin Botan. Mr. Botan, you have a speech on behalf of the individuals, so I'm putting them together, and I'll take your time in 15 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0515par0600	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I strongly condemn the attack on our headquarters tonight. These bullets were shot at peace, democracy, freedom, brotherhood. In fact, we would have waited here for the entire group of vice presidents to take their word for it, but unfortunately that didn't happen. Dear friends, one of someone's summons is taking responsibility, and we can see with horror what terror and chaos they've led this country into. That's why we're waiting for the members of the group to take their word for it and condemn this attack.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0516par0602	Why didn't you sign the terror manifesto? Why didn't you sign it? Tell me!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0515par0603	Dear friends, I have made a pledge on my person and my group over Article 6 of the 2017 Central Management Budget Act. I salute the General Assembly. We are the HDP MPs who, at the free will of the people, were elected by 6 million votes and came here. This certainly is not a blessing from the AKP. This is the result of our people's great sacrifice and courage, despite our bombings, our rallies, and our plundered buildings. And that's what people need to understand when they're stuck, who hit the ballot box and took refuge in the will of the nation. Of course, at this point, we see that the ballot box and the voting will are not respected. As of today, 62 co-mayors and co-chairs have been arrested, 57 of our co-chairs have been dismissed, and 12 of our deputies, including the co-chairs of our party, group vice presidents, have been taken hostage. After the attack on Istanbul, which all of us have suffered and condemned, many of our districts and municipalities have been attacked, over 500 of our executives have been taken into custody illegally and unfairly. In a word, I condemn this witch hunt. I regret those who choose silence over these attacks on this country's third largest party. It's such a weirdo that those who should be uncomfortable with the hostages of lawmakers are uncomfortable with their photographs, and those who need to call for an emergency call for peace and a meeting are calling for the removal of photos of our friends who are members of the law. The AKP government is responsible for this view in one word. Dear MPs, today all HDP MPs and DBP co-chairs have been taken prisoner in Hakari. You didn't leave any chosen ones in the great Hakkari. Because Mr. Abdullah Zaydan, Mr. Nihat Akdoğan, Mr. Selma Irmak was taken hostage on November 4, 2016 and you have received a rematch of June 7th elections. Mr. Abdullah Zeydan Edirne is currently in solitary confinement at Type F Closed Prison. In the same way, Selma Irmak and Mr. Akdoğan are subjected to similar treatment at İstanbul Silivri Prison. I'd like to remind you that our friends, who were held hostage, were chosen by the Haqkaris, who held their will even during the most difficult times in history, were a landslide majority. The arrest of our friends, for the sake of one person's political future, by slaughtering the law, by footsteps, is in a word the destruction of the will of Hakkari, Gever, Şemdinli, Çukurca. In a more clear statement, the punishment of Hakkari (Hakkari) for the political preference of our unregistered municipalities. You even did the name of Hakkari, without even asking the truthful, but it is called the "Colemegrg" (the name of Hakkari). While all these processes are being run, the Constitutional Court's verdicts have not been taken into account, and legal proceedings have not been carried out. All of this is carried out as a process of persecution, as a psychological process planned with the KHK toy, as a blessing to the July 15 coup attempt. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, AKP staffs, pool pencil sharpeners, social media trolls can create any manipulation and deformation against us; they can shut down newspapers, televisions, social media pages that include our voices and views, but I assure you nothing is seen in gazelle-skin seats or hundreds of guards. So, with the public's taxes, you turned the institutions that were standing into propaganda devices. You will not be able to change the reality of Turkey's Kurdistan, even if you do all kinds of sensory operations.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0517par0610	There's no such thing as Turkey's Kurdistan.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0515par0611	I say this as a friend of yours, from Şırnak, from Hakkari, from Van. If our heart is burning to Aleppo -- which is a human drama -- there are thousands of tons of bombs in Aleppo that have political responsibility, and 2,000 trucks that send bombs there -- they have political responsibility. Those who are burning for prayer in Emevi Mosque have political responsibility from the present situation in Aleppo, with a desire to overthrow Assad over the sects. However, I'd like you to take a look at Şırnak. I believe what my eyes see, and Şırnak is an Aleppo. I'll show you two pictures here, dear friends. Take a good look, fellas, which one's Aleppo and which one's Şırnak? You tell me the difference. Look, it's Şırnak I'm holding with my right hand. Do you see the destruction? You see this destruction?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0517par0612	Why is that? Where were you when the moats were dug?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0515par0613	I won't go into their reasons, but there's a view, you see the view.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0517par0614	Don't go for it, you can't talk about it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0515par0615	Şırnak is a city whose dreams were stolen, his future stolen, his hope stolen, a city. 60 per cent of Şırnak has been wiped off the map. Look where you're going with anger, hatred, hostility. This is destruction.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0518par0616	Show it to the PKK terrorists, not us; show it to the terrorists.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0515par0617	Here, do you like your work now? I'll put that aside.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0519par0618	It's your work, yours.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0520par0619	Who did that to Şırnak? Tell me who did that.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0521par0620	Go show them to the terrorists, ask them to answer.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0522par0621	Listen to me, listen to me, dear friends. Now, whatever the reason for Şırnak's destruction, I'll tell you something human in the present situation.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0523par0622	Lies! Don't fool people with lies!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0522par0623	I came from Şırnak yesterday, dear friends.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0524par0624	I came today, too.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0522par0625	People live in basements, people live in shops now. In Şırnak, families are crowded; three families, five families, 30 populations are now waiting for help in damp basements.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0525par0626	Where were you when they dug a hole, a hole, a hole? Why didn't you get ahead of them?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0522par0627	And look, until now, Kızılay has not taken a single tent to Şırnak. Why didn't Kızılay go to Şırnak? Why didn't he leave? Come on, it's either this or this, where is Kızılay, why don't you take one blanket to Şırnak?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0525par0628	Speak of reason, reason.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0522par0629	Why don't you take a pack of food and seize the help our charitable citizens have sent you?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0526par0630	Who's confiscating what? The government's helping, the government.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0522par0631	I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, Mr. Government, Mr. President, I'm asking you, why do security forces seize aid to Şırnak, aid from philanthropists, blankets from people in basements? Why are you confiscating the windows, the windows, the stuff of the people who are trying to fix the window? Oh, a little conscience, conscience, conscience!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0527par0632	Look, don't be too hard on yourself; you can't twist the facts like that.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0522par0633	Look, you've really lost your temper, and you've really given in to hate. That's the view, that's the view. That's all I'm saying. The High Council...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0528par0634	You've got your back on the terrorist organization!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0522par0635	You can't get away with it, you can't get away with it. You're in charge, you're in charge.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0528par0636	You're in charge there.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0522par0637	Why doesn't Redbeard take one tent? Instead of sending them here and there, send a blanket over there. If not, do not seize the sent ones.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0529par0638	We don't need tents, we pay rent for the family. We don't need tents, we pay rent for normal houses.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0522par0639	Get over it. Therefore, your people...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0530par0640	Get over it, get over it!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0522par0641	Dear friends, yes, there is a human drama going on in Aleppo, and the government has initiatives. It's kind of a human responsibility, I'm not saying it's nothing, I appreciate it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0531par0642	Where have you been, brother? Where have you been?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0522par0643	However, 300 of our young people were burned alive in Cizre. We've worked so hard to open the corridor of life. The same sensitivity you showed for Aleppo...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0532par0644	Don't equate terrorists with normal people!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0522par0645	Why didn't you personally instruct the law enforcement forces you were responsible for?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0533par0646	You're lying! That's a lie!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0534par0647	It's slander, slander!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0535par0648	Why did you fire on the ambulances?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0649	Why did you burn 300 teenagers down there in the basements? Why didn't you show the same human sensibility? Ask your conscience, I'll leave you to your conscience. A little conscience, a little conscience!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0537par0650	Like the Shiites of Iran, you opened fire on the ambulances.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0651	You know, there's a Kurdish problem, folks.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0537par0652	Like Esed, you opened fire on ambulances.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0538par0653	It's slander!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0654	There's a problem, there's a problem.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0539par0655	You're the problem.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0540par0656	There's a problem with the PKK, there's a problem with terrorism, terrorism.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0657	The Middle East is a Kurdish reality in Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0541par0658	You're a poor man who thinks there's a Kurdistan in Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0659	The sun does not roll up with clay, nor does it roll up. You can't escape reality.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0542par0660	You can't escape, you can't go public in that area. You don't even have 10 people talking to you where you're going!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0661	You can't run from justice, you can't run from the truth.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0542par0662	Instead of being a bully here, do you go and talk to the people there?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0663	No army, no emperor's power, no dictator's power is stronger than the power of truth.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0543par0664	You're the one who's trying to shut down the sun.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0665	The greatest weapon is virtue, virtue, human values. After losing your human values, I say for all of us, for all of us, after we've lost our moral values, after we've been eroded...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0544par0666	Right.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0667	...will be a great state, and this will be, these are stories; get over it. Dear friends, we are sent here by the nation's will to choose us, especially the Kurdish people, as part of the Kurdish problem, to resolve the problem democratically. Just 400 channels, one-screen understanding that you've been forced to make your voice... Look, I'll tell you something very bad.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0545par0670	Democracy doesn't work for you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0671	One AKP MP... now, for years, the AKP said: "We are fighting the deep state. We are fighting Ergenekon. You have blamed the opposition with the Ergenekon stick, and many innocent people, and you have thrown them into prisons. You tried to discipline the Kurds in the same way under the name of the KCK. And now, look, there's a congressman of yours walking around on TV...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0546par0672	Look, you're confusing, don't confuse the fight against terrorism with the Kurdish issue. Every time you're in a jam, you make the Kurdish issue a threat to terror.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0673	Actually, we need a deep government. We need a deep state... you're making nice to the deep government. What happened to fighting the deep government? You've said so many tons of things in the name of fighting the deep state.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0547par0674	We're also fighting the deep government, and we're fighting the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0675	Look, I'll tell you what the deep state means: "The deep state means to kill Moses Anter"; the deep state means to kill hundreds of intellectuals in Turkey, to kill Uğur Mumcu, and to mobilise with them. In your association with them, he will say, "Come here, and let me see. You made me do this, and you made me do this. You will lose the ropes. We don't need the deep government.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0548par0676	Who's killing the soldier?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0677	The government needs a deep mind, a strategic mind, a deep conscience. Deep government... why is there an MIT organization, what is the National Intelligence Agency for, people? What do you mean, you've got a deputy, he's screaming all over the place, he's fucking beautiful, we need a deep government. The deep government isn't a cat; it's not a cat you like, it's a cat you fondle your head with. The deep government is a great monster. That monster first swallows those who caress him. Never forget that, never forget that.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0549par0678	Just as the Kandil fell for you, right? Like the PKK and the PYD, where you're holding your back, swallowing you up!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0679	Dear MPs, the Kurdish problem, we have so many martyrs, but we've killed so many on the other side. It's not a question of this. Look, they're all souls, they're all people of this country.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0549par0680	If those people are the people of this country, why did you give them weapons?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0550par0681	Terrorists, terrorists!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0682	That's the point of our future if we get moral erosion: that's how much we've died, that's how much we've killed.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0549par0683	Why do you feel you have to take them to the mountains?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0684	Well, friends, these are all, look, our human resources, our values, our lives.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0549par0685	Why don't you fight when you go to families and they're threatened one by one?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0686	He who dies in Istanbul is my life, and he who dies in Suruç is my life.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0551par0687	Friends, calm down, those who can't call the PKK terrorist organization "The Terror Organization" or "The Curseless" have no dignity on this stand.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0688	Dear friends, you can't solve a problem with that understanding.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0552par0689	Istanbul, Istanbul... come to Istanbul.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0690	Istanbul is my life, and Ankara is my life, and they're all my lives, and we feel sorry for them all the same. No mother, no father's child on all of them.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0553par0692	Keep your distance from terror.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0693	It's the result of your wrong policies, your dirty policies that you've caused the country to be in chaos. The result of a mindset that says, "Give 400 trustees, and let all things be pleasant." You can't get rid of your political responsibility.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0553par0694	Is the PKK a terrorist organization or not? Say it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0554par0695	Who kills soldiers, the PKK?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0696	That's why...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0553par0697	Yeah, Turk-Kürt is a brother, the PKK's a bitch, that's what we're saying.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0698	Dear friends, before I put an end to my words, especially when the Minister is here...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0555par0699	Yeah, well, you can't get out of the faith. Say it once, it's a PKK terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0700	Minister, right now we have hundreds of teachers who have been unfairly suspended from their duties, from their union activities, their democratic rights, waiting to meet their students, waiting for you to give them good news.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0556par0701	Your last half minute, come on, tell me, the PKK is a terrorist organization. Say it. You're missing out, come on!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0702	My phones have been ringing off the hook here all morning, the messages are ringing off the hook, waiting for good news. We expect you to end their suffering and injustice. I salute the General Assembly. Peace will win, brotherhood will win!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0557par0705	Terror will lose, PKK will lose!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0706	Peace and brotherhood will surely prevail, out of spite, out of spite.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0557par0707	Turk-Kurdish is a brother, the PKK is a bitch!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0708	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0558par0709	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0557par0710	Turk-Kurdish is a brother, the PKK is a bitch!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0711	We're brothers. Osman is our brother, Osman is our brother!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0557par0712	Turk-Kurdish is a brother, PKK is a bitch, it's over.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0536par0713	We are brothers and sisters. The only good thing the AKP has done so far is the solution process, but I'm afraid that's where it's coming from.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0557par0715	Not at all, brother.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0559par0716	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0560par0717	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0559par0718	Mr. President, he has accused us of inconsistencies, he has accused our party group of inconsistencies, of ruthlessness, of public bullying.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0561par0719	No, I didn't... Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0562par0721	Here you go, Mr. Mush. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0563par0727	Mr. President, I've told you about the operations by our law enforcement agencies in the districts of our country, especially on the Syrian border of this Aleppo, about the establishment of the domain of the terrorist organization Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and its supporters. The goal here was to prevent PKK and its supporters from establishing a domain of sovereignty. Look, here, the corridors open from there, the terrorist organization is firing at the evacuation of civilian citizens. We're sending ambulances, we're firing on ambulances. Look, we've given dozens of martyrs to keep the civilians out of harm's way. Why? As long as it took for the terrorists to get rid of the civilian population, it worked. Look, if you're going to talk about conscience here, you're going to curse the terrorist organization that's involved in all of this, and then you're going to come back here and talk about conscience. In Ankara, in Kızılay Square, you can't speak of conscience unless you can say a word to the live bomb that killed a six-month-old baby in your mother's womb. Here, the nature of the events doesn't matter, however... but who are those who treat those pits like they're nice children?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0564par0731	Ignoring...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0565par0732	They were your governors, governors, governors...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0563par0733	Who couldn't even call them terrorists?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0566par0734	Those who can't say they're killers are killers, and those who can't.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0563par0735	We have to put it out there once, and then we have to go out there and tell us about conscience. Look, our government has mobilized all its resources for the region. Hopefully, those places will be built in a much better way as soon as possible, given to the services of the Şırnakn, Cizreli, again, and again. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0567par0739	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0568par0740	Mr. President, on behalf of the group, Ms. Hüda will make a statement.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0567par0741	Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0569par0744	Mr. Secretary, friends, our deputy Nimethullah Erdoğmiş speaking on behalf of our group just ten or fifteen minutes ago is now in custody when he makes his speech and enters his home. He was taken into custody at a Friday prayer in Diyarbakir province due to a statement and an investigation into the Prophet's agenda of the Treaty of Hudeybiye, as an example of the Treaty of Hudeybiye. Our friend, who had just spoken at work, is still facing the lynching policies of such a democratic stance, peace demands. For your information. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0570par0746	Isn't that an innocent explanation?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0571par0747	Pity!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0572par0748	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0573par0749	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0572par0750	Here you go, Mr. Botan.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0573par0751	The preacher himself twisted my words and pulled them in a different direction. Ben, based on bullying, according to 69...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0572par0752	No, what did you say, how did the preacher twist it?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0574par0753	Which one?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0575par0754	No, sir, we told the PKK. The P.K.K.K. is a terrorist. We said, "No more."
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0576par0755	One moment, please, please...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0577par0756	Wait a second. I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0576par0758	Look, he's going back to the group, twisting my words.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0577par0759	What did he say? I mean, how?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0576par0760	He says: I mean, it's like he did something to people who died in Istanbul, Ankara, Suruç. He's trying to create a sense that we're defending these massacres. I want two minutes, no hard feelings.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0578par0762	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0577par0763	Here you go, Mr. Botan. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0579par0767	Dear friends, his only crime is that we should all be condemned by the fact that our lawmakers, who have now claimed responsibility for the democratic opposition mission against the AKP, are, in this way, a member of the parliament who was just among us. Look, today's for us, tomorrow's for you. About that...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0580par0768	Why should we defend those who attended the terrorist funeral?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0579par0769	What's that got to do with anything? Those who sent 2,000 trucks to terror are responsible, pass it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0581par0770	What's that got to do with it? Who sent you, what do you say? Where? You can't identify this government with terrorism.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0582par0771	Guys, please, let's not interfere.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0579par0772	Dear friends, what I'm saying here is that 60 percent of Şırnak is now wiped off the map and the children in Şırnak are cold.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0581par0773	We're fighting terrorism.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0583par0774	We don't defend terrorists like you do.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0579par0775	Our people in Şırnak are now homeless. This does not eliminate your responsibility in Şırnak. I say, why didn't Redbeard go there, Mr. President? Yeah, why didn't he leave?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0584par0776	We've mobilized every means possible.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0579par0777	Please, come out and say it here.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0584par0778	I did. We're there with our entire government.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0585par0779	Redbear won't go because we're paying rent to families, why don't you tell them that?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0579par0780	Why are you twisting my words? Why isn't Red Moon leaving? Why don't you... why don't you... come on, come on, okay, we get that Reday's a lot of victims right now, you've screwed up the government, the dollar's gone up...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0586par0781	You're deflecting, you're deflecting.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0587par0782	The AFAD is there with all its resources, the state's resources are there.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0579par0783	Guys, look, charity people are bringing help over there.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0588par0784	Give me the address. What's wrong with Şırnak?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0579par0785	The blanket that the charitable people take is confiscated.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0589par0786	If the PKK had been wiped out of that area for years -- thanks to you, we couldn't -- those people wouldn't be cold today.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0579par0787	Can you explain that, Mr. President? What's the logic of this? Explain the logic of this. Why are you punishing Şırnak? Why are you punishing your people? Because they didn't leave?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0590par0788	Where's the problem?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0579par0789	Yeah, don't demagogue.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0591par0790	You're doing it, demagoji.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0579par0791	Look, I'm telling you one thing, I'm telling you something concrete. Why doesn't Redbear send help there?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0592par0792	Where's the problem? In all of Şırnak, or in his neighborhood?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0579par0793	If he doesn't send it, I'm asking him why he's interfering with the help he's taking; it's very simple, very clear. Look, I'm trying to get out of my political identity and ask a human being, Mr. President, something human, please.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0593par0794	Our government is there with all its resources, don't worry.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0594par0795	Mr. President, I said all the resources of the state are mobilised. Our Ministry of Companies, Family and Social Policy, AFAD teams, they're all in the area. Our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, on the one hand, has made a great effort to build houses. We explained all this, and he still says, "Where is he?"
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0579par0796	Then, Mr. President, you're being misinformed.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0594par0797	All the possibilities were mobilized there.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0579par0798	Well, then you've been misinformed. You've been misinformed. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0595par0799	Thank you. In the name of his subjects, the second and last speaker is Republican MP Ayşe Sula Köseoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Köseoglu.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0596par0807	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, on the basis of budget talks, I salute you and our beloved nation from the nation's House. Before I begin my words, I wish God's mercy to all of our martyrs and to all our martyrs who died in the face of the traitorous terrorist attack in Istanbul, and to all of our wounded. As our country struggles with terror, right next to us is a human drama. In Aleppo, where the world has turned its back on the cruelest days of the massacre, people are burned alive. Women and children are being kidnapped and raped. The truth is that women and children are the greatest victims of war. In Bosnia, Rwanda, the women of Aleppo, who want to commit suicide in order not to suffer the same fate as the women in Iraq, and to avoid rape, lay out the final point of humanity today. As a woman and a mother, I speak to the world from here: The world must not be silent about this atrocities in Aleppo, where mankind died, not men. There must be a continuation of the ceasefire created by our president's superior efforts. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as it is known, budgets are a mirror to government socioeconomic policies. They provide a realistic insight into the direction the country is headed. Those who can't manage the budget can't govern the country, as we've learned from experience in the past. Like other budgets, which have been prepared in the past 15 years as EC PARTI governments, our main goal this year is to improve the standard of our people's lives and to guide our country's future. It's a good thing that we've done things in our country that haven't been done in almost every field in 80 years that seem like a dream. We've transferred resources to education, health care, transportation, infrastructure, defence industry, Turkey's goals. About 20 per cent of the budget, or 1 fifth of its education, is the most concrete indicator. Again, with our investments in health care as a token of our value to our citizens, our hospitals are now at a hotel comfort, and our patients are receiving first-class health care. Happily, despite our unity, our unity, our democracy, despite internal and external enemies, Turkey is a country that sets its own economic policies, setting its own goals for ten years, 50 years, signing huge investments that the world looks at with envy. No focus will be able to stop Turkey's honorable march. Our greatest security on this road is our nation's trust, support, and gratitude. In every corner of Turkey, we have the pride of seeing the services of the AK PARTY and our people's faith in us. Let me give you an example of my hometown. There's one thing we Tripolians always proudly say: Tripoli is Turkey's cement. I'd like to add to that: Tripoli is also a summary of Turkey. The firm, sound, uncompromising stance of the Tripolians in the face of terror, the coups, the treacherous attacks, is no doubt a crystallized summary of the whole of Turkey. Likewise, the development of Tripoli over the past 15 years is only a small example of progress in every corner of Turkey. With this budget, we aim to do even more. For example, we made our Tripoli a university city. After KTU and Foundation University, we will now strengthen the identity of Tripoli's university with the second state university to be established. Again, Mr. President's dream of ten to four years. With the city hospitals he calls, Tripoli will be admitted to the city hospital. In addition, the Investment Island and Industrial Region Project, planned in Tripoli, is a very important project that will excite us and connect the East Black Sea to the Caucasus and to the Middle East. Finally, a new sports complex is being restored to our Tripoli, the capital of the gym, with the most sports facilities per square metre. I'd like to invite all our deputies and sports fans to the opening of the Akuri Sports Complex, which will take place on Sunday (December 18th) with the arrival of our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan. I believe that one of Turkey's most modern and private stadiums, one of 41,461 spectators, will bring with it all the great achievements that are missed and deserved by Tripolispor. As I put an end to my words, I wish the 2017 budget to be good for our country, congratulations to everyone who's done it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0597par0817	Thank you. And I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. The first statement on the 7th article belongs to İstanbul MP Hüda Kaya, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Rock. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0598par0826	Mr. Secretary, members of parliament, I salute you. Dear friends, recently, on Monday night, an operation was launched into our HDP province building, you know. The walls were written, the bookshelfs, the shelves, the tables were thrown in the middle, the tables were broken, the place was turned into a wreck, and I made a speech in the press statement we made there. He blackmailed the military, police, soldiers, police, as the Hüda Kaya organization spokesman, who pointed at me in the name of the organization, by taking a side of my speech, not by totally deflecting, not by taking a side of it, by making a polemic, making headlines, making headlines on the TGRT channel, and last time yesterday, Cem Küm Küm Küm, again pointing at my person, it's as if this woman should be given a severe, lynching, marksmanship, headlines. How could he say that to our soldier, to our police?.... without giving my speech to him?... just quoting the top of his own line on the screen.... if they were able to give my speech the way it is......... but their hearts had come to me. I, here, in terms of history, express my word and word for word, of course, in terms of all our representatives, you, as witnesses. Whatever I've told you, you can consider it in your own conscience here. I salute the press, and I come to the point that I say: "What institutional name was there before the existence of the HDP even before the existence of the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) that those who fought the fight together demanded a life of peace and freedom and fought for it. Today we face a government that has surrendered to the policy of war. Day and night, every hour, every second, on screens, on squares, on rallies, on the platforms, this ring has been imposed for months. They sow hatred, they sow hatred, and they shamelessly stand up and point out that HDP is responsible for the massacres, those responsible for the massacres, for the deaths, for the suffering, for the people who have nothing to do with their lives but peace, let us be free together, let us be equal, let us be fair. Our rulers, our co-chairs, and our people, who have served nothing but love and beauty. No, they know who's responsible for all this pain, and they know it. Those who burn the hearts of these blood, the massacres, the hearts of those who suffer, those who impose their war policies on us, those who declare peace by the plots of war and palaces. After all, you will not be able to hold these people responsible for this blood, who say: "Love, brotherhood, peace." You know the word of Imam Ali, who comes to peace, and you come to peace with him. There is no obstacle to doing so in 24 hours if you really want the peace, peace, and peace of this country. If you're truly sincere, if you really want to keep people from dying, let no human being be slaughtered, let no fire fall into the hearts of mothers, fathers, wives, children, coffins, young and old, soldiers and police, if you really want to make this country a paradise in 24 hours, so that no one can be slaughtered, we can turn it into a paradise of peace. Once again, I cry out from here: "Come, all our friends, come, all our people, come, O people who are not of the HDP, but who do not want blood, we don't want blood." Those who say, "We are facing a great battle move. Come, let us all make a great peace move against this great war move. Let us make a great peace move against this great war move. Believe me, believe me, sooner or later, peace will prevail. I have completed my speech in the form of peace. I have invited all our people and all the non-HDP residents to a great peace move. Where in my speech am I blackmailing the military, targeting the police? I hereby declare this before the people of Turkey, in the presence of the public and all of you, as a witness to history, as a record. This is because our esteemed deputy, Nimethullah Erdoğş, who just spoke, had performed a prayer on Friday and at that Friday's prayer... our husband, Mr. Demirtaş, who is currently in prison, attended Friday's prayer. It was a Friday prayer attended by tens of thousands in Diyarbakır, where our esteemed deputy, Nimethullah Hodja Hudeybiye, told of the Treaty. Even if it were against us, just as long as we surrender to peace, strengthen peace together. For his testimony to the congregation, the congregation that was part of it, he left here now, and was taken into custody less than ten minutes later. We don't deserve this kind of Turkey, neither do you, neither do any of us. Look, from the bottom of my heart, let 2017 be a new beginning, let our people smile, let us get rid of lynchings, the language of hate, and together, a smile on their faces, without fear of the future, a Turkey free of death, without fear, will be reborn in our hands. Let us endure for peace, dear friends. Thank you all.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0599par0836	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the last word on behalf of the group belongs to İstanbul MP Shafak Pavey. Here you go, Mr. Pavey. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0600par0841	Mr. President, honored members of the High Parliament, our throats are tied, the words of comfort are futile. We're in mourning of a brutal slaughter again. Sadly, all we can do is pray that it never happens again. The rule of a country by the most unprincipled, unqualified people is called kakistocracrasy in ancient Greek. In Kakistocras, governance is supported by radical ignorance and organised lies because many problems have been piled up that the ruler cannot cope with. They resort to perception operations, political distortion, and information pollution that drive people to despair and closure because they can't solve problems that affect our lives, such as violence, poverty, unemployment, a collapsed education, test madness, a collapsed health system. In Kakistocrasis, society is taken hostage by lies spread by the government. Reality and facts are no longer to be taken care of. In normal times, immoral behavior becomes common. Controversies, inconsistencies, nonsense don't matter. The majority accepts the appearance of power as a condition of unscathed life. But sometimes we just have to forget what we're told and look at the truth that's right in front of us. Unfortunately, our country has ranked 18th among 163 countries in the most dangerous countries. At the most needed time in history, the Turkish army was torn apart by the hands of a congregation. Those who enjoyed Fetullah should have suffered, of course. But you've erased your partnership from your memory, as shown by the coup commission. We lost 846 children this year. I couldn't find the strength to include our burning gazelles in Adana. Being a father's gazelle is not unique to powerful families. Poor, rich, make every father's daughter gay. Everything's like a pebble. The country is swayed by the disaster of violence, the decay of morality. We lost hundreds of people last year because of terrorism, what exact account are we talking about? The government has been systematically trying to bring the Republican People's Party together with terrorism for a long time. This policy does not only result in the political killings of members of the main opposition party, friends, but also results in massacres that you can't control by communities used to see yourself above the law. Yusuf Tezel, who was part of the Belgian/AKP organization, and his hires had shattered the flowers of our party at the martyr's funeral, threatening to put a bullet in the leg of our president in front of the state. After that, news from government-controlled media with dangerous messages was put into circulation. Of course, Tezel and what he hired didn't happen. As one minister said, he walks the streets of Brussels as one of the 510 million Europeans living in prosperity and peace. At the funeral of one of our martyrs in Kayseri, the wreath of our party was broken again, and again our mayor was warned for his safety. Right after that, your congressman showed our party on the terror list. In every normal-run country in the world, governments are responsible for preventing terrorism. What is the conclusion that you expect to target our party as responsible for our young police officers, our young soldiers, our young civilians? You want to tear us apart, not just our flowers? What do you hope will happen next? The greatest loss to a society is the loss of truth. The most uncontrollable massacres in the world have occurred when the truth of societies has been distorted. Uncontrollably, the look of a grieving child, a pregnant woman walking, turning down an invitation for a singer to attend a rally, is perceived as a sign of terror. After that, you can't take a nap. It's vital that you prevent it, not promote it. I wanted to give a red alert instead of a budget speech. Because I think the human right to live is sacred from the budget and everything else. I hope you agree with that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'm not speaking to you as a congressman, I'm speaking to you as a concerned citizen. Just like we called you many times before you struggled in the abyss of Syria. It is easy to humiliate a small country, such as Syria, but if you humiliate Russia, for example, you will find yourself repeatedly begging for it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0601par0850	Sin, sin! Condemn what happened in Aleppo.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0600par0851	Meanwhile, the Russians know more about our country's situation and your Middle Eastern policy than these members of Parliament, including your own representatives. How is that possible? You're trying to intimidate everyone like you can get into the Shanghai Five. How do you get in? China, the powerful country of the Shanghai Five, does not grant visas to Turkish citizens due to your share of ISIS ties with the Uygur Turks since 1 February 2016. We don't know what you said. By stealing test questions at every level, by giving fake thesis, you systematically distributed undeserving status and resources to your fans. What I'm so curious about is why do you have the right to your own privileged children to the universal education that you have denied our people and destroyed their foundation? That's exactly why your sons and daughters are going to graduate or doctorate, instead of your most powerful alliance with Saudi Arabia -- in your terms -- to the infidel countries. You've removed a lot of words from our dictionary, such as honor, for example responsibility...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0602par0855	They went to America because they couldn't read the headscarf.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0600par0856	Instead came words that would never come together with the state code, such as official shamelessness, official fuss. In government management and diplomacy honor has a valuable role, it defines our reputation.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0603par0858	You provided it together, provided it with the HDP?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0600par0859	International reputations, international trust, exports, tourism are the gains of society. The law must mean a lot to the universal moral governments.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0604par0860	Condemn Aleppo, condemn Aleppo, and condemn what happened in Aleppo.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0600par0861	The strong can't destroy what they don't like, otherwise we're no better than bandits.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0605par0863	If you value the word honor, describe what happened in Aleppo.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0604par0864	Tell me what happened in Aleppo, what happened in Aleppo!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0600par0865	Those who are held hostage by repeated lies may not be interested in unjust arrests, unlawful conduct...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0604par0866	Come to Aleppo, condemn Esed.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0600par0867	... But when they lose the means they meet, they can start asking questions they've never asked. Because you know that, you perceive training as some kind of poison, and you're doing everything you can to prevent it. You've changed education policy 14 times in 14 years. You've confused enough desperate families and students, and our students no longer have any knowledge of life. The elementary school kids are getting their picture taken with the noose of death; this is a picture that you created. You seem to have malaria from a desire to change the regime. You have intimidated and intimidated the people of this country both mentally and physically. Your biggest dream is to change society's DNA. The cure you offer is scarier than the disease you create, but please remember, the disease destroys the patient first. Hiding in a closed life, turning yourself into the flow of intimidation, giving up hope for justice may be the qualities of citizenship that you seek, whereas modern states in the 21st century offer common happiness to their citizens along with trust and prosperity. If you want a rematch from the Republic, I say read the date correctly. In the First World War, not only the Ottomans, but the four dignitaries who signed their own death warrants collapsed, some slaughtered to the smallest baby of their descendants. If you look at the age in which it was established, the republic is the most compassionate country of the 20th century. The position you're sitting in right now, these seats, you owe it to that compassion.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0606par0871	We owe it to everyone! We owe it to everyone.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0600par0872	Hopefully, not when you've lost its value, but when you're still in it, and now you realize it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0606par0873	You're off the grid.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0607par0874	The real republic is another, the CHP's republic is another.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0600par0875	I pay my respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0608par0877	Blame what happened in Aleppo.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0609par0878	You could not condemn Assad, Assad.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0610par0879	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0611par0880	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0610par0881	In fact, we could have given an answer here on the stand, but believe me, we don't even consider it worth answering, it's that obvious. I won't take two minutes of this Veteran Assembly, and we don't even think it's worth answering.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0611par0882	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the individuals...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0612par0884	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0611par0885	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0613par0886	They waved with HDP. They waved with Demirtaş.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0611par0887	Just a second, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0613par0888	After the June 7th election.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0614par0889	People see it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0613par0890	People rocked it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0615par0891	Mr. President, every conversation has its value and it knows its place of origin. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0613par0894	On June 7th, they waved, people waved, people waved.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0616par0895	Yes, the first word on behalf of the individuals belongs to Mr. Muhammad Mufit Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0617par0899	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the 7th article of the 2015 Computation Act. I salute our great delegation, our nation. In fact, if I had a little time, not five minutes, but a little time, I could draw something like this very briefly when they run this country. I remember a time, and I'm telling them to know this very well: a word said by a friend of ours who didn't vote left, he said: "What did we say, we are 3-5; I have one brother-in-law, and they said to me, "You will be in this position." He said: "If I take the lead, I will give you two kilos of oil."
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0618par0901	You're the ones giving the oil, giving the salt, not us.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0617par0903	No, there's no point in denying it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0618par0904	What oil?
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0617par0905	That's how Turkey was led. That's why there's no need to be a little harsh about it here. Dear friends, after the terrorist incident in our country, Istanbul on Saturday, I wish our martyrs the grace of God, and their place will be paradise. Dear friends, the attack on Beşiktaş, the July 15th betrayal, Gaza, Srebrenica, the pain of Fallujah, Aleppoce and Aleppo is not independent. Those who are silent for Aleppo, who have died of druglessness, thirst, and hunger, will have to answer in front of history for this atrocities and slaughter. The United Nations, which can't ally in any right decision; the non-unification of the Islamic world; the European Union, which has lost blood every day and can't go beyond being a Christian club; the powerful countries that are engaged in their clumsy actions when it comes to the Islamic world, according to its own power, and who are engaged in gun testing and selling; the Arab countries who can't get together even in the destruction of their own brothers; the killing armies like Hasdi Shabi, who have caused mankind to die by creating killer armies like Haşdi Shabi in Halep. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, remember, when the national struggle was approaching, our civilian people took refuge in mosques, and they were burned in many mosques in the Aegean. Now, evil forces are being massacred against the people in Syria. Aleppo, the proud and oppressed, has been invaded, plundered, covered in blood, and has become a symbol of an insolent serpent called civilization. His people lie dead in the schoolyards, on the streets, on the mosque corners, before the eyes of the world. We see innocent people dying in the house of the Most High Creator without respect for any sacred value. We live in a time when our whole nation's feelings of hatred and reproach swell against the relentless attacks of evil forces. The attempt by major accomplices to market universal value to the Middle East will be a new example of brazenness in human history. In such an environment, the brutal and brutal implementation of the sovereignty of powers around the world continues to continue to deal with each other in a far-reaching way -- especially Muslims. How is the siege of Aleppo and the massacre different from the Middle Ages Crusades, for God's sake? The city has no electricity, no water, people are hungry, people are sick. Such genocide would not justify such violence any political justification. The number of people killed in Syria in six years has now reached 700,000, where the word ends. In the mountains, in the forest, those who react to the death of birds and insects are just watching this massacre.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0619par0913	Five more minutes, we're good.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0617par0914	In our geography, Turkey is the only country that is sincere and puts its hands on the end of human tragedy. We're harboring 3 million refugees. Dear friends, time is short. The one who came to Turkey in 1988... listen to this.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0620par0917	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. You're done.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0621par0919	No, no, five minutes on the house.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0622par0920	You look so happy about the slaughter of Assad!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0623par0921	Mr. President, wait a minute, he's the last speaker.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0624par0922	Then we couldn't feed the people who came after the Aleppoca massacre. I've been managing them for four years, and I know it. But praise be to God, right now we're providing the survival of three million people without causing any trouble. I salute you all with respect, love, respect.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0625par0925	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0626par0926	Whose money are you doing it with? Whose money? Do you do it in your pocket or in your pocket? You're doing it with the taxes we pay!
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0627par0927	There are children starving, starving! The refugees starved, the little children starved, the little baby in the camp in Izmir. The refugees are starving in İzmir.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0625par0928	Members of parliament, the last speaker of the day is Muğla MP Akın Usüzdağ. Here you go, Mr. Supremedağ.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0628par0931	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We discussed the most problematic part of the budget negotiations. I'd especially like to point out that it's not a healthy study. Despite all objections from the Republican People's Party, the pressure of time to discuss the final accounts of the past period along with budget legislation is brought to parliament without being vetted in a healthy manner. The subcommittee isn't even set up. The detailed examination of the Court reports has not even been possible.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0629par0933	The men bring the Constitution without examining it.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0628par0934	It has not been understood in any way how the right to raise and spend public revenues on behalf of the citizen was used, how it was supervised, and how the Parliament used this authority. How will a healthy inspection be conducted before the Court reports are thoroughly examined? Has the government used the powers vested in its place? Has there been any public damage? Have procedures and actions been carried out in accordance with the law? Furthermore, under the pressure of AKP governments, who have ruled alone for 14 years in the sense of dominance of each institution and organization, has it been possible for the Court's auditors to do their duty? Why aren't the main reports for the trial brought to the House? Why are only recommendations sent to the House? The translucent and auditable accountability of a budget run by a government is one of the most important features that should be in democratic countries. Every penny spent should be accounted for here. Unfortunately, the AKP ruling period is the period of governments that are inextricably and unquestionable, where expenditures used to be covered have reached the limit. As the Republican People's Party, it is part of our election declaration to establish a clear policy commission, allowing its president to become a member of the opposition, thus bringing power to a transparent and accountable point. The importance of this commission is more and more understood every year. Under new regulations under the Public Financial Management and Control Law and Court Law, it is impossible for the final account law bill of the previous year to be considered healthy in the Plan and Budget Commission at the same time, such as the budget bill of the following year, the Court audit reports, the operational report of the previous year, the strategic plan and performance plans. Therefore, the exact account commission must be established and must be included in the system. The final account of 2015 shows us that the functioning, planning, management, and spending of public administrations are filled with extreme shortcomings, violations of legislation. Spare funds have continued to exceed the limits of initial grants, as well as to private accounts and unregistered funds. The 2017 budget is also the budget of the rich and the poor, which buys from the poor and gives to the rich. There are no poor people in this budget, no poor people, no officers, no workers, no tradesmen, no small incomes, unfortunately the pensioner is forgotten again. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, to the power that sees pensioners as a guaranteed vote, it's enough for the pensioner. Real soon, pensioners can retire you from politics, too, you know.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0630par0940	You've been retired for sixty-six years. Sixty-six years. What do you say? You've been retired for sixty-six years.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0628par0941	The tradesman's tired, can't do anything, can't pay his insurance, can't pay his rent. Do you know that? You've had the farmer's share for 14 years. $65 billion is what the farmer will take from you. You've finished the farmer, you've finished the agriculture. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, the weight of the tomato is the same as the weight of the coal, in Mugla, in Fethiye, in Seydikemer. They're burning Russian coal in the greenhouses right now. Do you know that? No. You finished tourism with the wrong domestic and foreign policies. Tourists and tourism-related sectors are bankrupt. Do you know that? No. Although large masses of people are dealing with such great problems, as the people are becoming poorer in the economic crisis... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...If there's an APP, it's called the presidential system, and it doesn't say anything else. May God give you wisdom, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0631par0948	Be advised, Turkey, the presidential system is on its way.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0632par0949	Thank you. Before the vote, the government has a brief explanation. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0633par0954	Mr. President, thank you. One of the speakers who spoke earlier, you made all the complaints about the Halep. But look, here's Şırnak. There are similar situations in Şırnak. He said by showing pictures. It is not allowed to intervene, help, or even help the civil society. So don't have a double standard behavior. He implied something like that. By the way, I spoke to our governor, Ali Ihsan Su Bey. His information is accurate, and I'd like to present them to the General Assembly. There were roads leading up to the pit, houses being rigged with explosives. So, when we wanted to destroy these explosives, when they were destroyed, the houses that were rigged with explosives were also destroyed. Those whose house was destroyed were paid 1,500 lira, and those whose house was damaged for $1,000 in cash. Some of the people whose house was destroyed have migrated to Mersin, some to Cizre, and some to Diyarbakır. However, at this time, our citizens live in their homes, about 8,500. We're going to build about 6,000 dwellings. And we've given each of the tradesmen a cash deposit of between 1,500 and $3,000. We do it to anyone who asks for food support. We're doing the help through the Social Solidarity Foundation. By the way, I'm saying there are 17 mortars in the basement of City Hall. So I'm saying we didn't want to be dealing directly with citizens through an outside civil society. No one's hungry, no one's out there, everybody's home. We're giving cash to anyone who needs it, and we're giving the same help to anyone who needs it. Not only here, but in Cizre, and in Silopi, nearly 16,000 citizens, who are under 30,000 lira, have been paid the cost of damage. In this case, the people paid 150 million TL. In damage assessment, again, we'll give the agreed-upon people a home in exchange for their home. If a 100-square-foot house is destroyed because of the terrorist organization's explosive installation, the government will build it and give it to itself. By the way, after this protocol is signed, $560 a month is paid for rent. Again, the infrastructure of Cizre, Cleopatra, and Şırnak is being built; the sewer is being built, the water is being watered, and the 105km of hot asphalt will be made for Şırnak. My last word, Mr. President. In the center of Şırnak, in working for the community, 1,000 of these damaged citizens were employed, 2,000 were employed in Cizre, 1,200 were employed in Silopi, 750 were employed in İdil. And those whose time is lengthened shall be prolonged. I wanted to present it to the General Assembly. Therefore, there are no two relative situations. I do, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-15sit07spe0634par0965	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Minister. Yes, Mr. Lawmakers, I submit the 7th Amendment to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Members of parliament, the Articles of the 2015 Central Management Computation Computation Act have been adopted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. The open vote will be held tomorrow's merger after the final talks. Thus, according to the programme, it is Friday (December 16th 2016) at 14 p.m. for the final talks on the entire budget and the draft of the 2017 Centre Management Budget Law and the 2015 Central Management Computationary Accounts Bill. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Have a good night, have a good Friday.
