tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. Members of parliament, the 18th President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mr. Ismet Sezgin, who has served several tasks in Turkish politics and state administration for many years, has received the mercy of Hakkk yesterday, who has also served as my Minister of Finance in the bureaucracy. I wish you God's mercy, family, relatives, loved ones, and patience and condolences to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Let's move on to the agenda. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Computation Bill. Under the schedule, we'll be negotiating in the third round today. In the third round, the Banking Editor-in-Chief, Capital Market Board, Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, General Directorate of Roads, Information Technologies and Communication Agency, General Directorate of Civil Aviation, Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, Department of Energy Management, National Bor Research Institute, Turkish Atomic Energy Agency, Mines Research and Search Directorate, Food, Agriculture and Animal Development Ministry, and the Association of Tobacco and Alcohol Management budgets and final accounts. 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Members of parliament, as it is known, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must enter the system. Mr. Sky, I believe you have a request. Therefore, I give you my word before I read the names of the speakers. Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0002par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, as you have just stated, we have learned with regret that Mr. Ismet Sezgin, our dear elder, who has been political in Turkey for many years, has come from the important figures of Turkish politics and from the government and the Justice Party, the Democratic Party political culture, has lost the life of Mr. Ismet Sezgin, one of the great politicians. We ask God's mercy for the death of Mr. Ismet Sezgin, who has added important work to Turkish politics, and we offer our condolences to his loved ones and his entire family.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0001par0062	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Bostanci, here, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0003par0065	Mr. President, thank you. I would like to offer my condolences to his family, his loved ones and representatives of Turkey's politics, the Turkish people, for the passing of the Parliamentary presidency, as well as the death of Ismet Sezgin, who has served in various ministries in the past. In fact, there's a side to politics where service is forgotten and precious is unknown. More criticism comes to people when they're called politics, but it's a matter of right to see what's done. In this frame, it is incumbent on all of us to remember services for charity. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0004par0069	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account In the third round, I read the names of the members of the group and their people. First, the speakers of the National Movement Party Group will speak. I read the names of the MPs who will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group: Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP; Baki Simsek, Mersin MP; İzzet Ulvi Yölter, İstanbul MP; Mustafa Mit, Ankara MP; Mevlüt Karakaya, Adana MP. I read the names of the members of the members of the Republican People's Party Group: Aykut Erdoğdu, İstanbul MP; Ali Özcan, İstanbul MP; Serdal Kullcuoğlu, Mersin MP; Cemal Okan Yüksel, Eskişehir MP; Haluk Pekşen, Tribzon MP; Haydar Akar, Selimı MP; Namik Havutça, Balıkesir MP; Barış Karadeniz, Sinop MP; Şerratettin Turpcu, Zonguldak MP; Okan Gaytancıoğlu, Edirne MP; Ömer Feth Gürer, Niğde MP; Mımullum Nursa. I read the names of the members of the members of the Justice and Development Party Group: Mustafa War, Aydın MP; Rafet Sezen, Edirne MP; Sebahattin Karakelle, Erzincan MP; Mustafa Ilıcalı, Erzurum MP; Cesim Gökçe, Ağrı MP; Yusuf Selahattin Beyribey, Kars MP; Hüseyin Filiz, Çankırı MP; Şaap Kavacıoğlu, Bayburt MP; Mehmet Galip Ensarioğlu, Diyarbakır MP; Zeki Aygün, Kopelı MP; Mehmet Uğur Dilpaş, Kahmaraş MP; Mustafa Sertış MP; Mustafa Şertıtın, MP; Şarımımı MP; Hüseyin Filımı MP; Şa Köp Köp Kırlı; Şaşmanımımı MP; Şaşımımı MP; Şaşı MP; Şap Ensari. I read the names of the members of the members of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group: Ahmet Yıldırım, Mud MP; Garo Paylan, İstanbul MP; Alto Tan, Diyarbakır MP; Mahmut Toğrul, Gaziantep MP; Adem Geveri, Van MP; Besime Konca, Siirt MP; Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı, Bitlis MP. On behalf of his people, Mehmet Demir, Kırıkkale MP; then I will promise the government against him Mehmet Göker, Burdur MP. I wish it to be a successful, no tension, efficient combination. Now, I'm starting the promise process. The first speaker on behalf of the National Movement Party Group is Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP. Here you go, Mr. Günal. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 16 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0005par0129	Thank you, Mr. President, dear lawmakers, and I salute you all. At the beginning of my speech, first of all, I would like to express my condolences to Mr. Sezgin, the esteemed politician of our former Parliament, Allah's mercy, and to his relatives. My dear friends, I've made more promises on SEC, BDK budgets. I talked about the Treasury the other day, but unfortunately, now we have to divide them all, and our budget talks are different every year. Of course, that's because, according to the ministers, institutions are constantly changing, ministries are changing. Mr. Canikli isn't here yet, so what we're really talking about is the SEC, the BDDK. We're dealing with another freak again. We told you when this started, and we keep saying it. Obviously, it's not enough that the economic institutions have already been divided, but now something different has happened. Of course, our friends can't say that exactly, but in the last week, there was the Consultory Board of TÜSİAD, and some of our bankers, some of our friends, the businessmen we were talking about, were saying, "What's going on?" Mr. Lightning says something, and the others say something, and we're confused. I said it's normal because it's a problem with someone with a drum and a mallet. We've talked about the treasure, the bank's boss, the Treasury, the boss of all institutions, the Treasury, but the regulatory and control institutions -- he doesn't have them -- Nurettin Bey. Now, look, last week, there was a meeting of the Economic Co-ordination Council -- sometimes we're surprised -- but I'll tell you about the ministers in it, so there's our Minister of Energy -- the Minister of Labor is also about the economy, but I don't count our Minister of Labor -- there's Mr. Simsek in charge of reforms, there's one, there's the industrial part of the Minister of Science, Industry and Technology, two; there's the Minister of Economy, three; there's the Minister of Customs and Trade, four; there's the Minister of Development, five; there's the Minister of Finance, five; there's the Minister of Finance. We don't count the sidelines. Now, which part are we going to talk about? Someone's been through there. We talked about where the treasure was. Now, where does the SPK depend on the BDDK? It's up to Mr. Canikli. First of all, we need to sit down and straighten this out before we start making small talk, and according to the individual, we need to finish the ministry. Why do I say it? What you call the Co-ordination Board is all that will happen with two ministries and three ministries. When there are five, six ministries, it passes from place to place, and when you put them together, unfortunately, there's red tape. So I told you the other day, if you listen to what the opposition says, good things happen. Our friends did it, and we thanked them, and it was published in the Official Gazette. Let's set up the Export Loan Guarantee Fund. They brought it in, so you don't have to, so go ahead with the Credit Guarantee Fund. We also showed you the way. When the money is gone, let's give you a limit, that's another matter, but you haven't already used the limit. We've given 2 billion, let's start another fund without using 1 billion. Why is this happening? So, that's what we're saying, if you start different ministries, each ministry wants it to have its own private fund. So we need to figure this out. We, the National Movement Party, have always acted with a constructive, guiding understanding. We thought we'd set up a single Ministry of Economics. Customs separate, trade separate, internal trade in the industrial sector, foreign trade separate, we can't coordinate. In our model, it's all in one place. There was the General Assembly of TELKODER yesterday. And I'm about to move on to the I.T. Congress again. We've also interviewed sector representatives. Now, transport, okay, maybe it's related, but communication, communication is different. We said, as an MHP, let's gather information and communication technologies somewhere, somewhere with substructure, communications, technology. Now we've put it where the infrastructure is. We've put together the Department of Urbanism and the environment that's causing the most damage to the environment. We need to stop doing it for a little bit of person, the summation. So what happens now? We prepare something from there, one ministry brings something, the other brings an arrangement, we suffer until we can reconcile the two upstairs. So there's a lack of coordination between institutions. Now I looked again last week. We met at the Commission upstairs, told our friends. They say, "Sir, at the Istanbul Financial Center, we've laid the foundation of BDDK and SEC's buildings." Now it's like it's all finished. I looked again to see what other institutions there were. There'll be four, five banks, three public banks outside the SEC, BDK buildings. When we do that, it's like everyone's going to come to Istanbul. We looked at yesterday's news today, Fitch turned his view of Turkish banks negative. So we've been talking for ten years about building buildings, building physical spaces, not being a financial center, and we've been saying it ever since he first came out. We've looked again, and all the banks have general managerships. How many banks are there in Turkey, our BDK officials are here? Where are the others' headquarters? We're looking at 80 percent left on the Levent-Maslak line. So, what are we gonna do with them, guys? We sent public banks and public institutions by force, by instruction. We said take it. They took it. How much did it cost, what happened, what was the value of the land there, how much was it when they bought it? Of course, these are separate issues, because we've talked too much in the past. But what's in it for us? Just because we built a financial center, does that mean everyone's gonna come? If we can't be financially strong, there's no way we're gonna get through this. I mean, we just built a physical financial center... well-intentioned, all right, but we need to sit down and take a look at these. It's been looked at, the commissions have worked, they've put it in front of them, they say the best place to do it is the Levent-Maslak line. Our friends from the past will remember when we discussed the laws of the 24th term, and you will remember how we took the land from the Izniye Park, and then were given it indirectly to the Ministry of National Education. Our SPK president was here, and he was in the SPK at the time. So let's give this place to TOKI, where there's a good financial center, and where there's an IMKB, and where there's a place in the Iznya and Maslak, close to Levent, so that we can build a financial center for Ataşehir. So, what's it gonna be? The ones who don't show up, the ones who stay there, all the financial institutions, the private sector, will be the public financial center? What kind of financial center is that? Yeah, it's localization in certain places, moving here as a territory, but how do we do it? How do we move their infrastructure? We didn't use them for that purpose when we had a place in that area, when we had a place ready, because of someone's haste, because of someone's haste. Today we're living this weirdo. Look, we see that it's not just about building a physical financial center. Here we see the improvements in dollars, we see the counterreactions, we see the reactions in international markets. For him, we need to be financially strong. If we don't do this, dear friends, it's not possible to build a financial center and transfer it there once and for all, and we need to complete the financial reconstruction. First of all, we need to make an arrangement to resolve this mess within the economic institutions, to coordinate upstairs. Of course, the banking sector has now, again, announced significant figures in terms of profitability, compared to last year. On the one hand, we say there's a problem with the economy, but how do they explain it? I've asked you in the last few years, and our head of the BDDK is here again, so I'm asking you, we still haven't had the numbers in over a year. We asked them to do a separate but private study, and how much of these floating loans have actually been renovated, reconstructed, and how much of them are literally living loans. The reactions we get when we go on the market are different. The previous week, we were with the tourists at the Turofed General Assembly and we talked to all the sector representatives in Antalya. They told him their complaints, told him their troubles. The minister was there, and they told Mr. Hunter about his problems in the environment where we were together. Yeah, some of the measures are going to be taken on the tourism industry again, but they have problems with banks, they have problems with loans, they need to be addressed. I mean, there's some sort of reconstruction and live display of customers that I just told you about, but there's something really wrong here. All the entries used by the local and national sector of tourism -- except for a number of drinks -- are locals, dear friends -- are needed to make a different arrangement for the loans they've taken, if necessary. Otherwise, when we're doing all these foreign currency campaigns, let's go from dollar to TL. There's also work needed for a sector that brings the most foreign currency and uses all domestic inputs. We talked there, too. Again, after our conversations with the Minister and with the concerned bureaucrat friends, we need to establish a tourism framework law as a structural measure and, with all the incentives I've always said here, along with a number of regulations for the coastal edge, a tourism framework law that will include all of its own, but first, there needs to be a regulation of the part about banks and the demands for them to postpone a deadline. Again, he's having second thoughts about being an exporter, and there are areas that are troubled. It's been done before, but in practice, unfortunately, it's not enough. I'm just saying that. We've told the banks, but since all of these institutions have been disbanded, by the way, there are some institutions that have been transferred to TMSF. Dear friends, after a while, this is a bit of a freak -- when a lot of banks have been transferred from SPK to the TMSF, at the same time -- then there was a problem being decided at the Banking Editorial Control Board, you all know about the trouble with the Uzans -- many companies have taken over in a similar way -- I said earlier in the Commission, now, after they've taken over those companies, in a short time, when there's not been a process of liquidation or restructuring, when management needs to be done professionally, and after some time -- in the company -- in which I call it's a holding hold, many companies, many of you can get billions of dollars in compensation. Now, in other ways, there are companies that have been resuscitated and have already been taken into the TMSF. I'm asking my friends, who gets on their board of directors, and what is their experience with the field of engagement, the field of activity? I mean, if he's gonna be in this portfolio for a long time, he's gonna have to work here professionally. Here, let's make the general manager, the deputy secretary of the ministry, a member of the board, etcetera. So, well, does it have anything to do with the industry? How much is it? Does he have good management, even if he's an industry expert? We're in a bit of a hurry about this stuff. Yes, let's fight the terrorist organization, yes, let's drain their financial resources if they have one, but -- we're interviewing the SPK budget today -- there are public companies; there are people who have nothing to do with it; there are people who have gone and bought their shares there, they have rights. According to the Capital Market Law, these are citizens who have made a clear investment, who looked at the price at the time... oh, there's a special purpose, there's a different one, but we have to make the organization arrangement right. In order not to bring about their rights, these companies need to be run professionally, and then we can face even greater losses. Yes, we're in a hurry to make some decisions under extraordinary circumstances, but we need our friends to sit down and discuss them seriously and come up with solution proposals. If we don't do all this, dear friends, we can't overcome what we're told, just by building a financial center or just by doing what we're told. It's partly true, and there'll be people trying to do it. The state of the Republic of Turkey is a great state, and the Turkish nation is a great nation. And as long as we're in this area, there may be those who want to play games on us, who do the math, but we have to be strong. What's the way to be strong? Without considering what is said, we know what is true. It does not mean what is true. The way to be strong is to use the common mind to take the structural measures necessary for our country, so that we can first revisit the 2023 targets that we've been so far away from, at least in part -- let's not take a step backwards, sir. Don't wait until we've touched it, we need to do what can be done with a revision of what's realistic. And to do that, we've talked about the primary sectors that we've been discussing here over and over again, so there's not much to say. As I mentioned earlier yesterday, Mr. Secretary and the Prime Minister were abroad, unable to attend, but the authorities of all companies involved in information, communications technology were there. We're meeting with the I.T. authorities. We met with tourism. Our priorities in the energy sector are clear, Mr. Secretary. In view of all of this, we need to take these structural measures so that we can all reach their 2023 goals in the future, not to look at those who call them a bogeyman. So you're going to say, what is it? In the beginning, I just said that without the tourist framework law, there's no way we can fix that lack of organization, there's no way we can coordinate from restructuring the ministries. After doing all this, we need to dominate a high and sustainable growth that is supported by structural reforms, a new sense of high-velocity, high-tech growth. By learning a lesson from here, hopefully, we can overcome it if we all go to the productive economics that the National Movement Party has told us about. Hopefully, we'll all do it together in 2023, to catch the targets we've fallen behind, and then in 2053, at the 600th anniversary of the conquest, as superpowers, and I give you all my compliments. I wish the budgets well.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0006par0146	Thank you, Mr. Günal. In the name of the National Movement Party Group, the second speaker is Baki Simsek, MP of Mersin. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time has been 18 minutes, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0007par0151	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Transport. Before I begin my words, I salute your grand delegation. To 12 of our citizens who lost their lives in the fire of the house of Adana Aladağ, I ask the blessing of God, especially Sare Betül of Mersin, and Fatma Canatan of Mersin Çamlıa, who was also my friend. I want our government to take precautions about housing, hospitals, places where people live collectively, not just after suffering, but during normal times -- now many homes are locked up in fire escapes, hospitals, large sites, houses of loans and dorms, not if the fire escapes can be used -- to inspect all of them, and to do exercises about them, and to avoid new lives. We won't be able to pass without mentioning the July 15th betrayal. On July 15th, the darkest day in the history of the Republic of Turkey was that nation's tank was shot with the cannon of this nation's children. Only 53 of our heroes were killed in the Lakehead Special Ops with flammable weapons that were not even used against the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). I ask for God's mercy on our martyrs, and I expect the most severe punishment for the traitors involved in the coup attempt. But here -- our ministers here -- it's impossible to say that there was no victim when they wanted those involved in the coup to be punished most severely. You've suspended 11,000 teachers. You've suspended 11,000 teachers from Turkish Education-SEN, Education-BIRD-SEN. You've returned 10,000 of these, but thousands of people are still victimised by a member of Turkish Education-SEN, a member of Turkey's CAMU-SEN, a member of Turkey's Peace-SEN. Because of these atrocities in Mersin, my constituency alone, Mersin's olive garden imam hanged himself in the mosque. Again, a cop who was originally Niğde Kemerhisar killed himself last week with his gun. Before that, again, a policeman who served in Pinelia committed suicide because of his suspension. If we go out now and say, "There is no harm done," we are wrong. Well, if there's no victimology, then why extradite? If it wasn't for the victim, he wouldn't have been reinstated. Aren't the people we've suspended or expelled from their psychologys and balances even one day, that's a victim, isn't it, precious lawmakers? Before I could talk about the budget, of course, the heart would want to discuss the budget before it was discussed in Plan and Budget. Our Minister has taken over the ministry since our Prime Minister. I've been a congressman for about a year and a half. In my own Commission, we've had no meetings except to have breakfast with the ministers at the Commission for Publicity, Development, Transport and Tourism. However, the main issues come to the Plan and Budget without discussion, without discussion, and then to Parliament, and through this kind of accession from parliament, the opposition generally disagrees with the budget talks, which the government does not agree with. I wish we'd given the MPs the right to vote from their rooms or from the Internet, and they wouldn't even have to come to Congress. Of course, the government will tell us what they've done, and we'll talk about what hasn't been done. Turkey hasn't been here in a day. Turkey was abandoned to the region's terrorists in the east, southeast, due to its wrong policies from 2002 to 2015. The solution process started, the solution process started in 2009. The wise men have been chosen, and 7x9=63 is what you say, but we call them foolish. These foolish men were not sent to the area of terror in Turkey, but to their homeland in Anatolia, to the areas of their nation. People here were tried to be persuaded, but these policies failed; mothers continued to cry and weep, and the last time after July 22, 2015, they began to fight terrorism in earnest. We still say it's a profit wherever you turn from the wrong side of this country, and we support policies on this side from July 22nd. In Turkey, our Ministry has made serious investments in railways, serious investments in railways, fast trains. We support investments in the railroad, but we don't think it's enough. Between 1925 and 1939, in the years in which Mustafa Kemal Ataturk was alive, Turkey built a railway by shovel with an average of 220km of digging in terms of poverty and famine. Between 2002-2016, our annual average is 135km, despite unlimited possibilities, developing technology, roads and all kinds of technical equipment in the 15-year AKP administration. Those who went to Adana know that they were being built, and they were being watered by beet engines in the villages. A hundred years ago, in the villages where the Germans brought water, we still suffer from drinking water in 2016. Unfortunately, this does not suit the developing Turkey, the growing Turkey. It's about roads... again, about double roads... we've had a lot of ways done, and we find the government a success in the general sense. However, no necessary work has been done on the highways, and the 15-year AKP government has now failed in its course on the highway. The road between Ulukış and Ankara, Niğde-Ankara highway, which will connect Edirne-Urfa, has not been done for years, unfortunately. We're waiting for our government to get this route on schedule and finish it as soon as possible. Two major cities in Turkey are Adana and Mersin. Between Adana and Mersin, where there are two million of them, there have been 47 years of age and 40 years of age. Each election period is promised eight lanes; between 60 km and two major cities, unfortunately, no new routes were made; as of last summer, only a five - mile [8 km] tender was made. We expect this road to be finished as soon as possible, again, and again, to be finished with the long-lost route to Mersin-Antalia and its tunnels. Again, many airports were built, many unnecessary airports were built in Turkey. A lot of airports were built, not 100,000, not 50,000. Many of these airports may not be working at this time, but Çukurova Airport, which is to be built to Mersin, a population of 2 million people, is now in 2013, where our prime minister laid the foundation and opened in 2016. There's been another tender, now there's uncertainty in the bidding process, and we're still waiting. We say it's enough, get a city of 2 million people to the airport, don't make excuses. A government that's been running the country alone for 15 years no longer has the right to make excuses. You sold TELECOM, years ago, even though we said it was wrong, you sold TELEKOM. Today the Internet and normal phone bills are burning people's pockets. It turns out today that the deals you made that day weren't true. Again, we expect you to end these victims by making an update with the company you sold TELEKOM to. Unfortunately, Turkey does not have the necessary investments in high technology. The budget for RD is only 1 per cent. Serious investments in Turkey are not possible with 1% budgets. In 2016, the total share of high-tech products in the industry was 6.2 per cent of export; today's share is 3.9 per cent; the average of the European Union is 19.4 per cent. I also told you in my budget speech last year, the money Turkey has officially paid on its cell phone in the last 15 years is $23 billion, but we can't see a serious study of RD or manufacturing that will yet produce a new cell phone in Turkey. We keep giving out Turkey's resources. I'm asking our Minister for that, and this cell phone is going to cause us to make a serious exchange deficit all the time from now on, a serious investment in the production of this, if necessary, brain transfer. Our first native and national aircraft is in the sky. The elections were hung, so I don't travel many planes, but I don't see any local planes in the airports where I've been and where I've been. We've produced our first electric car. We've been told, we're going to produce it. But unfortunately, we still can't see any work on the first domestic and national car, or we don't have any information that's being transferred to us. We're going to give a small dwelling. You said, "We're going to give cheap housing to poor people for $100, 200 lira to poor people, strange guruba." But you haven't done one housing project in my constituency area in 15 years, you haven't done an urban transformation project in 15 years. We have never encountered a dwelling in Mersin, and in any of its districts, which is given to citizens for £100, £200. Today you say we did everything. But the governments before you built two bridges for Istanbul, and they built the Karakaya Dam, and they built the Ataturk Dam. The electricity produced by the Ataturk Dam alone is more than the electricity produced by all the government's HESESTs during the AKP period. The Osmangazi Bridge has been built. I'd like to ask the Minister here: you have guaranteed a daily vehicle from that bridge. How many cars are passing through this bridge today? How much does our government pay that firm today for vehicles that don't cross? We're waiting for you to make a statement about this. Mr. Prime Minister says the fight will come and go. That's right, foreign currency comes in and out, of course, but we can't ignore it -- natural gas exchange, oil exchanges, import exchanges, currency we sell. So, I want you to take the necessary precautions. As a trucker's son -- I'm a trucker's boy -- I demand cheap diesel for the trucker. Indeed, this tradesman is a victim who earns money at the expense of his wrists in Turkey. A raise was given to the ETV, and the Minister of Finance came out and said: "There will be 3 billion dollars coming, but we didn't do it for the money. " I'm asking the Minister of Finance: If you didn't do it for the money, why did you give it to him? With the increase in STV, I expect the increase in insurance to be prevented from taking precautions, that the tradesman is already a victim, that the scraping sale should be given back to the scrap vehicles, because it will be a major contribution to the national economy with recycling, and I expect a re-alignment to be made. Again, the farmer -- our minister of agriculture -- was here, but he probably left -- we're going to give cheap diesel, cheap fertilizer. It's called, we're waiting for it to be activated immediately. Unfortunately, today, the farmer is alone in the warehouse with empty barrels of diesel, mortgaged fields, mortgaged tractors, non-paying crops, bona fide narcissist, leftover apples and fate. There are 3 million hectares of land related to the farmer that are currently not planted in 2002. 3 million hectares of land planted before 2002 are currently not being planted, and I expect measures to be taken. We're going to give the pensioner a bank promotion. It's called "retired," but he's waiting for retirement. The subcontractor is waiting, the election has been promised, Mr. Prime Minister has promised 750,000 subcontractors, but the questions asked today are being answered again, and they are not giving a clear answer. The minimum wage in Turkey, which you have ruled for fifteen years, is 1,300 lira. No Turkish people who love their country, their nation in Turkey can possibly be happy with a minimum wage of 1,300 lira. Unemployment is 12 per cent according to official figures, but actually 20 per cent is not less than 20 per cent in my constituency. According to the latest data provided by OECD (OECD) in training, Turkey ranked 49 percent in mathematics among 70 countries, 50 ±th in understanding that it has studied and 52nd in science. We have 450 thousand unaccounted teachers, millions unemployed. Istanbul and Marmara are now full of population density and industrial density... for the government to give up its policies in Istanbul, to transfer its resources to Anatolia. Adana, Mersin, Niğde, Kayseri and Iconia are nominated to become a new Marmara. I expect him to declare this area a priority investment zone. From the 2002 promise you gave me on Mersin, I want to briefly sum up the promises to this side, and I want to devote my final moments to my constituency. In 2002, you nominated Dengir Fırat, who sat in the HDP ranks today, from AKP lists and from Dengir Fırat Mersin made many promises. He promised me beach tape projects, and he even said that the athletes who would come here during the Mediterranean Games would stay here. At the end of 15 years of AKP power, the beach tape has not even been made; many of the companies have now abandoned investment, let alone hotels. The Darşat Tüzmen arrived in 2007. He made a lot of promises with his sporty image, especially 5T. The Christians asked: "What is this 5T?" The fifth said Tüzmen, as well as agriculture, tourism, trade, transportation. Mersin will win, Turkey will win. He said, "But we haven't seen him in Mersin, except that Mersin swam through the Bosphorus for five years, and we haven't seen any activity. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] In 2011, Zafer Calashan arrived. Again, he made many promises as a ministry. If there are five free zones, ports, industry, and even Hollywood of the U.S., India has Bollywood, then Turkey will also have Mersin, we will build film sets here. But the Mersinians have been watching theatre for fifteen years, there is neither Hollywood nor Bollywood. Again, Yenice Logistics Village of the promises made to Mersin. The University of Tarsus Technologies, where you withdraw from bill number 405 with the motion. In 1938, the state of the Republic of Turkey built a port for Anamur, and then we couldn't even maintain it, and today, the Port of Anamur is closed. We're waiting for this to go off as soon as possible. Tarsus State Hospital. In a city of 350,000 inhabitants, people take fans from their homes in the summer. I've shown it to our minister and to our bureaucrats. I've got pictures, I can show you. You cut down the trees in the land where the Tarosian State Hospital would be built, that was the eucalyptus forests. The trees grew again today. It's still unclear if the hospital can be built there right now. In the elections, he was hanged again, we made the deal. He said, "Good luck, but now we don't see any contracts or hospitals, we don't see any work. Again, there was the Cotton Dam a project that would change the fate of Mersin. Minister Veysel Eroglu arrived in 2010, laid the groundwork and said: "We will open this place at 13.13 p.m. on October 13, 2013." Even on October 13, 2016, the dam is not yet finished, nor is it possible for it to end at 17, nor is it possible for it to end at 18. We're waiting for the government to fulfill its commitments. The citizen's agenda is clear. When we go to our constituency, citizen, finish the terror. End unemployment. Be fair, stop the injustice. He says, "Let's not look for torpedoes to get a job, save us from torpedoes." The biggest problem in big cities is traffic, parking and crooked construction. It says, "Stop these things." As I end my words, one last word from here will be to the EU, US countries, and its ambassadors. So far, bombs have exploded in big cities in Turkey. We've lost hundreds of people. Turkey had a coup attempt on July 15th. None of you came and said, "Let the past be the past." You didn't say, "We are with you." But until today, when there was even the slightest incident that happened to those who were with them, who had their backs on the PKK, who had their hands on the PYD, who had always collaborated with the terrorists, you all came and tried to bring them to their knees. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The Turkish nation endures neither absence nor famine, nor despair, but I say it will not surrender to any will over the state of the Republic of Turkey, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0008par0189	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Third speaker on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Izzet Ulvi Yölter İstanbul Millekeli. Here you go, Mr. Orender.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0009par0193	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been interviewing the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2015 Final Account Bill under this blessed roof since last Monday. We're in the third round of budget today. I'm here to represent our party group as part of the budget and final account talks of the Energy and Natural Resources Ministry, the Energy Market Editorial Board and Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency. At the beginning of my words, I salute your honorary committee and our dear citizens who are watching us on their screens. Before I go into the details of my speech, he has left deep traces of Turkish politics, and I ask Allah's mercy on Mr. Ismet Sezgin, who has served as minister, party leader and chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for many years. I also ask for the mercy of our brothers, our heroes, and of our heroes, who were martyrs in Al-Bab, and of our heroes, God, whom we have sent to Hakk, as part of the fight against terrorism. Our country is among the top 20 countries in the world, based on energy production and consumption. Projections suggest Turkey's energy consumption rates will increase further in the following years. As of today, Turkey is a country dependent on energy imports. Other acquisition agreements with Russia were signed in order to meet the increasing amount of consumption after the first annual purchase agreement of 6 billion cubic metres in 1986. As a matter of fact, Turkey is buying long-term natural gas from three countries -- Russia, Iran, Azerbaijan. It also imports liquefied gas from Algeria and Nigeria. Russia, however, is the largest share of our imports. In 2015, the total import of energy was 48.7 billion cubic metres, and the 26.7 billion cubic metres were covered by Russia; then Iran had 16 per cent, Azerbaijan 13 per cent. The Western Line controlled by Russia has 14 billion cubic metres, and the Blue Stream has 16 billion cubic metres, and the 10 per cent of it is still not being used. However, it is clear that Turkey's energy demand will increase. Therefore, if it is not possible to increase production, it is imperative that new import sources be searched and found. The Turkish Stream Project, signed with Russia during the energy convention during the past months, envisions the transfer of a total of 31.5 billion cubic metres of gas through two parallel gas pipelines, about half of which will be used by Turkey, and half of which will be delivered to European countries. Unfortunately, the search for a cure will deepen addiction by importing a larger amount of imports than Russia, which we depend on with 55 per cent in response to Turkey's growing demand for energy. Turkey is able to reduce its dependence on Russia by heading towards Turkishmen gas and Azerbaijan gas, while its preference for its use of energy supply security is at risk. Given the crises that have occurred and are likely to happen, we can also be seen to be in a difficult position for supply security. Turkey must implement both supply and demand-directional measures in order to maintain a certain level of energy imports, which have an important share in the current deficit. Besides, we can see that in the last few days, dollars have gone by. According to the same period last year, Turkish lira lost about 20 per cent in exchange for dollars. Energy imports are one of the most important factors to increase our current deficit, given that Turkey's total import of energy imports is at a high rate of 18.3 per cent. Enhancing energy efficiency on the demand side must be provided with comprehensive programmes. On the supply side, increasing the share of domestic resources in energy production should also be among the main policies of the study of fossil fuels abroad and abroad. Given that economic competition, foreign political stance and intelligence struggles are an important component of energy, we think it is important that the foreign policy makers, energy technicians, security bureaucracy and economic actors in Turkey take a closer interest in non-consensual resources. To create a national energy policy, it is our greatest desire to reduce external dependence on energy raw materials, to evaluate coal and renewable energy sources at a maximum level. Energy imports should also ensure the diversity of resources and resources. With an effective demand management, the energy supply must be carried out in a continuous and adequate manner. An approach based on a friendly and sensitive understanding of the environment, improved waste control and disposal, basin and resource planning should be produced without damaging energy, environment and human health. Energy efficiency must be supported by powerful and diversified financial tools in all areas from production to consumption. The ability to produce new energy technologies, especially nuclearly, must be achieved. I'd like to say that we've been very careful with the development of Akkuyu, especially with the Prime Minister's statements on his trip to Russia. For these goals to be achieved, the principles of transparency, objectiveness and public interest must be ensured in energy tenders, licensing and license allocations, and international agreements rather than unscheduled, arbitrary, and restrictive practices in the energy sector. In mines with import obligations, the private sector must also be supported to invest abroad, especially in the Turkish Republics for supply security. Instead of selling precious minerals such as gold, thorium, boron, as ore before it is processed, it must be converted into high-end, high-tech add-up new products, so that it can be sold and more resources are earmarked for R&D activities. Unregisteredness in the sector must, of course, be avoided, by closely monitoring mining techniques acceptable to keep production costs low, and mining enterprises operating far from financial control. Dear lawmakers, the country's mining industry has marked the past years of business accidents that have left extremely painful traces. In 2003, at the coal mine in Erzurum Ashmale, the scene of the loss of the lives of eight of our workers continued with countless catastrophes. In the same year, in Karaman Ermenek's coal mine, 10, in 2004, at the copper mine in Kastamonu Orb in 2004, at the coal mine in Kütahya Gediz in 2005, at the coal quarry in Kütahya in 2006, at the coal mine in Balıkesir Dursunbey in 2006, at the coal mine in Soma in 2009, at Bursa Mustafakemalpaşa in 2009, at the coal mines in Balıkesir Dursunbey, at the coal mine in Balıkesir Dursunbey, at the coal mine in Zonguldak Karadon in 2011, at the open coal mine in Afşin-Elbistan, at the Soma in 2013, at the coal mines in Soma in 2013, at the coal mines in the mines in the mines, and under our brother in the mines at the mines at the mines at the mines, and at the mines at the mines at the mines of Ermen. Finally, in an accident in a mining mine in Siirt Shirvan on November 17th, 12 of our workers have lost their lives, and I believe they're still trying to search for four of our workers buried in the ground. Our country has added a new one every year to the worst world record in mining safety. I ask: Has there ever been a need for a safe mining process in international standards? Unfortunately, there is no positive answer to that question. During the 14-year period of Justice and Development Party governments, even though certain measures and measures have always been said to be taken about mining accidents, accidents have not been interrupted, casualties continue to drop fire on the furnaces. The fact that 18th - century technology still prevails in Turkey is in the square of business and its consequences, which work in the coal field and are victims. See, this heavy problem, we just handed it over to the private sector, and they did it. It can't be compensated by logic, it can't be an excuse. You know, there's a court ruling on what happened in September in Soma. It is said in the court's court's ruling that, according to special legal provisions, the lack of proper care and precision during handing over to the operating company is not taken in order to ensure that the miners survive in extraordinary situations. A decision was made regarding the Ministry of Energy based on compensation. So, the choices that were made were clearly subjugated by the court's decision that the strategies were wrong, that the necessary sensitivity was not shown. The AKP government is certainly responsible for these lives that have been lost. It's impossible to deny. Once again, our brothers who lost their lives in mining accidents, I give you the honor, gratitude, and mercy to our families and to our nation. I pray to God that such accidents will not be repeated, that they will not be repeated. Precious lawmakers, when we look at statistical data in the field of energy, our country is ranked seventh in the European Union's electricity prices ranking, including taxes in the dwelling, in 29 countries. EU countries rank third in the price of electricity, including taxes in the industry, in 29 countries. The EU countries ranked second in the gas prices rankings, including taxes on the dwelling, in 29 countries. Again, countries of the European Union are number two in the natural gas prices ranking, including taxes in the industry, in 29 countries. However, those rankings will not be considered a sign of success, given the national income per capita in the European Union countries. These sequences of achievements mean nothing. In 2015, our increase in electricity production and consumption fell behind the 2014 production and consumption growth. Our mining exports dropped from $4.1 billion in 2014 to $3.75 billion in 2015. By the end of September 2016, our mining export was $2.27 billion. As long as there is no extraordinary development, our mining exports will be below our exports in 2015, with developments already pointing to that. During the period between September 2002-2016, the amount of power from both domestic resources and foreign sources increased. However, there has been no significant change in the value of the total power of these sums. It is known that around 44 per cent of the amount of power was supplied by imported sources. At the end of September 2016, 32.44 percent of the country's electricity production was provided from coal, 32.4 per cent from natural gas and LNG, 26.2 per cent from hydraulics, 5.56 per cent from wind. We've been saying for years that the gas we've been receiving through imports has a very high share in electricity production, and we've been constantly expressing our warnings about it. However, the energy policies of the Justice and Development Party governments have not been able to solve this problem for years, and apparently, they have little intention of solving it. The failure of the Justice and Development Party governments is once again registered. Our country has a license for 11,000 megawatts of wind energy, while the 3,000 are working, while the 8,000 megawatts are still in the vacuum and are not working. Dear lawmakers, Mr. Energy Minister, as you know, has announced a 10% discount on the dwelling and the industry's gas prices starting on October 1st. In our country, about 50% of the cost of electricity production is natural gas. With a discount on natural gas, a simple calculation is the right expectation of our citizens to do at least 5 per cent reductions in electricity, electricity prices, and bills. And this is the good news from the Minister, our citizens, our nation, with all its heart, with all its heart, with all its sincerity. As I end my words here, I salute you once again, and wish you a good and successful budget process. I call upon the Lord God to bless our nation, to bring good things to our nation, our state, and to give us new hope. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0010par0221	Thank you, Mr. Orender. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mustafa Mit, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Mit. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Dear Mit, your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0011par0226	Mr. President, I have been promised to give you the views of the National Movement Party on the Bor Institute and MTA as part of the budget talks in 2017. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, our meetings where we discuss the budget of 2017 are primarily aimed at approving the legislation of the social contract that the government has prepared for the future on the economic and social situation of our citizens. It is a responsibility and constitutional obligation for the political institution to take initiative on such an important matter. The budget bill, the only law bill that causes the government to fall if it is not adopted by parliament, is the statement of the budget rights given to the legislature in our Constitution. Dear lawmakers, the budget that will build the future is basically the design of the future, which is the main goal of politics, and the commission of the government to implement it. Politics is about building the future. The vision of the future is surely based on acceptance and understanding. These are the rational or irrational assessments of acceptance and understanding that determine the direction of politics, the authenticity of design. Politics is therefore obliged to obey society, history, geography, and the way the world is going. Irrational prejudicial provisions, cognitive community units, and the mental shift and confusion that utopia provides will mean the bankruptcy of the political institution. Besides the financial damage caused by this situation, we will face the inevitable consequences of public life atomizing, mental rifts, and even discussion of the cause of existence. It's been experienced in a painful way that we see as dangerous structures, partnerships, political institutions. Militan, we're living in a political atmosphere where armed cult formations have the courage to take over the state completely. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important projects in Turkish history is that the national sovereignty, which is the basis of the republic, by any name, is transformed into the sovereignty of cult structures. This is to avoid the rational direction of the politics of history, society, geography and the way the world is going. Recently, the Ottoman state will recognise the process of nationalisation, as well as its continuation, which the republic has established as a political destination and accepted. These fundamental structures and ideological deviations will harm the process of stateisation as well as the process of nationalisation. Dear lawmakers, our recent history of domestic political developments and the political developments that we're still living in drive our human capital, based on our vision of the future, into vain. A generation has been ripped from its homeland, its nation, its state, its resources. The damage caused by this loss is very difficult to measure. There's no question that the biggest investment is an investment in human beings. According to the International Student Evaluation Programme Report, published by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development every three years, among 64 countries, Turkey's ranking in mathematics was 45, 37, and 41st in reading and science, causing concern about the future of our country. A portion of the dreams that have been given away from the historical and of course, have been lost to the rule of the hard thinkers. The future that politics is going to build on one direction, unfortunately this report, is shown painfully, as if hitting heads. Dear lawmakers, the foreign policy priorities, which we are not alone with, which are not consistent with the reality of the world we live with, are false and misleading. These priorities are being implemented on the world scale under the effects of the real political conflict of idealized dreamers. The fluctuations and swings of foreign political preferences stem from the conflict of bonds and interactions impose palliative solutions. Stabilisation and trust in international relations are a national security issue in a country. The establishment of foreign policy based on national power sources is the main argument in the establishment of trust and stability in our region and in the world. Foreign policy based on national power sources has predictable principles, institutionalisation of trust and stability. Today, in extreme fluctuations in the financial sector, the negative dissolution of our country, compared to the precedents of our country, is the result of insecurity of the political institution on the inside and on the outside. Proclaim to the owners of the nation that those who have faith in the affairs of the people should be concerned about the consequences of their conduct by acting ethically and opening the way for the people. The divine decree will have a righteous outcome. It's a reality that we can't ignore the reality of real life, the understanding that the political institution is the sole basis of our destiny, the determinist consequence of our course. A policy based on our national power sources will form a universal and national moral framework. As a matter of fact, I was sent to complete the fine morality of the Prophet, who was sent as a mercy to all the worlds. He never neglects the real politics of his message for mankind. Dear MPs, an important part of our national power sources is in general our mines, the resources provided by our geography. From our underground sources, the boron is one of the strategically important mines. For many years there have been reviews, debates over Bor. In Turkey and around the world, the National Institute for Boron Research was established to provide scientific environment for the development and development of new boron products, to co-operate with public and private sectors using or using boron and products to work in these areas, to do scientific research, co-ordinate, and contribute to these research. Although this strategic importance of the pipeline has been drawn to the highest authorities in Turkey for many years, the budget of the Institute for research on this issue gives the impression that the issue is not important enough, for the budget to be transferred by one or two sentences in the Commission talks is a coherence of how important it is. The importance of the matter must be given. The institution's budget opportunities must be increased. The Institute, which operates on a very modest budget but is expected to do much, must be encouraged and supported in every way by the government. Dear lawmakers, the detection of reserves of our underground resources is important in the planning of the future. In our country, this mission has been given to the Department of Mines Review and Search. In 1935, our government understood the importance of identifying and operating our underground resources and established the MTA. The work of the MTA must be encouraged by the government to make visible reserves of our underground resources using new technological possibilities. The MTA has recently been deprived of the necessary importance. In line with the purpose of the establishment, the MTA must immediately take our entire country, including the seas, and take it as a cross-section area, and update the work that has already been done. The 2015-2019 Strategic Plan was designed with almost exactly the same goals as the 2015 year. MTA must be quickly, more active, with developing technology, new needs, new resources taken into account, redesigned. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I wish you all the blessings of the 2017 budget for our country, our nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0012par0242	Thank you, Mr. Mit. Last speaker on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Adana MP Mevlüt Karakaya. Mr. Karakaya, the scheduled period of speech for you has been 18 minutes, but Istanbul MP Izzet Ulvi Yölter has not used two minutes of 18 minutes of speech. I take into account your request that the two minutes remaining from the rotatorium be added to your own time of speech, and I set your speaking time as twenty minutes. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0013par0247	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism in 2017. I salute your high council. Dear MPs, we're discussing the 2017 Budget Bill. When this bill is passed, we will have given the authority to collect 598 billion euros, which are one-quarter of a quarter of a million dollars, to use or transfer 645 billion euros of its income, to borrow power for 46 billion 900m euro deficits between income and expenses, on behalf of the Turkish nation, the Turkish Grand National Assembly, on behalf of the Turkish National Assembly. In summation, there will be economic, social and political goals and consequences for collecting such a huge source, of course, as close to 30 percent of all non-natives -- all the goods produced in a year -- in exchange for service costs. In the event of these results, policies by institutions or organisations that exercise that authority will be effective. These will, of course, be questioned as part of the implementation of the control function of the Grand Assembly, which authorises the Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, with a different view of the budget, we are presented as financial statements of government plans for a year's work. This plan is actually a sort of financial compass of what governments will do in a year. Lawmakers of the government, which has taken the stand, express their satisfaction and pride for bringing the 15th budget of the Justice and Development Party governments. In quantity, of course, it's admirable, but in quality, I don't know if it's possible to say the same thing. Here, today, here, we're going to make an assessment of the actions of the Ministry of Agriculture, which has completed the 14th budget and has come to receive the 15th. Dear lawmakers, we are required to give the order of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism 17 billion, 175 million, 234,000 TL, on behalf of the nation, the authority to use resources. Why does the government want this source from us? So what do we expect from the Ministry that we've given this source for the Turkish nation? What we're really waiting for is very simple and simple, and we expect our people to apply policies that will allow them to reach reliable food, to get results. Our human needs to be the main target of these policies in terms of food trust and access to food. Food reliability is possible with a healthy structure that begins with the protection of agricultural resources, the production stage of the product, and until it reaches the table. Food access is available on the basis of food security, with a production, distribution and market structure that will allow food to be transported to consumers at reasonable and stable prices. So, where's the Ministry at with these goals and goals? I'd like to make my assessments in a few subtitles. The ministry is unfortunately weak in protecting and developing agricultural production resources. The most fundamental source of agricultural production is soil. The earth, unlike what is thought, is a scarce spring. Do we know how many years it would take in ideal conditions to create an inch of agricultural soil? At least five hundred years is the time it takes to create an inch of agricultural soil. In Turkey, agricultural areas are rapidly disappearing from day to day. Rant, the wrong agricultural practices, the wrong market and support policies, are causing agriculture to disappear or lose its quality. In 2002, 26 million 579 hectares of agriculture were reduced to 23 million 989 hectares by the end of 2015. The country's population increased from 69 million to 79 million in the same period. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting lost 2 million 590,000 hectares of agricultural land during 14 budgets, and today it is for the 15th budget; of course it is welcome, it is welcome, it is welcome. Is it different in the mera, which is the basic entry point in livestock? Worse. The period of the MHP, which has been launched and accelerated, has unfortunately stalled during 14 budgets. There has been no significant improvement in the rehabilitation and preservation of gene resources for both plant production and animal production. For example, the Turkish Cow Project, which was launched during the National Movement Party, has not been continued. Instead, AKP rulings carried out the Dutch cow, Argentine buffalo and Australian angusu import project. When the import of hay from Ukraine was badly condemned, our Ministry did not delay to produce rational solutions, the import of meat is the best solution. He said, with this invention, he tried to prevent both importing living animals and importing hay. It's not that we don't think of a basic joke. When cell phones first come out, on the basic plane, the plane is about to take off, the final warning is made, but Base is on his cell phone. The passengers can't stand it, they object, they say: "Turn off, brother of speech. " The foundation says to Dursun. "When I speak to him, the people here get angry; you speak, I listen. Here, when our Ministry is imported, everyone condemns, and we import meat, prevent living animals and hay imports. Miscarriage of water resources and ecological balance with wrong agricultural practices is also causing the potential of agricultural resources to go to waste. We can't wait for the growing population of a country that can't protect its agricultural resources, and can't even improve, to meet its food needs, not to mention food safety, not to mention food security. The ministry must take the necessary precautions and implement them in a noncompromising manner. The ministry's policies on product planning and production were also inadequate. There is no such thing as planning, unfortunately, in agricultural production. The works are carried out in the meadow of Saldim, in the form of Mevlam katah. Agricultural production planning, of course, is not easy compared to other production areas. The success of planning in agricultural production may be possible with the predictability of the future and the effective use of guidance tools. Of course, the accuracy of predictions about the future is an important problem for certain branches of this sector, but our Ministry has left with 14 budgets, has come for 15 percent; unfortunately, it has not developed and achieved a system; it has not been able to develop an integrated early warning system through markets, nor has it been able to create a proper database and build a solution on it; it has not been able to develop an agricultural inventory, even in today's technology. We don't even know exactly what our agricultural resources are, what level our agricultural machine park is, what our agricultural production potential is, let alone how much it is, how much we produce, we don't really know. The World Grain Council estimates and data on the production of Turkey's grains are taken, used, and evaluated more than the data produced by the Ministry in Turkey. The first agricultural census was in 1927 and the last in 2001. So, it happened again, when the National Movement Party was in power, taking charge of agriculture management. Likewise, for the first time in our country, animal presence was launched in the leadership of the National Movement Party with the Turkish Recording System project. For the first time, with no infrastructure, information and communication technology were not so advanced, the farmers' registration system was successfully implemented in the leadership of the National Party of Action. In 2002, 2 million 588,666 farmers and 167,334 hectares belonging to them were registered under the farmer registration system for the first time under the rule of the National Movement Party. What can you plan without knowing your present state, your power, your capacity, your potential, and their species? But we continue to use these scarce resources without knowing too much, without looking at the substructures. Of course, one of the most important problems of agricultural production is the scale economy. If we put aside some of the setbacks that have been made in recent years in practice, I must also state that it is a proper practice. Dear lawmakers, the most important element of agricultural production is the human resource. It's led by farmers and farm workers. The wrong agricultural policies of the AKP's rulings have made the farmer leave his stick, his field worshiper. The most important problem with agricultural production is high input costs. We haven't had AKP governments listen to the height of basic input costs, such as diesel, fertilizer, medicine, seeds, electricity. Of course, it is a proper, decent, good practice to be delayed by the state to support half of the Masozite, which was said to begin with the latest regulations in 2017. Again, I would like to say on this occasion that it was a support model that the National Movement Party had prepared in 2002, projecting a support model. And I would like to say that there is a project that will be appreciated and supported by us as a delayed and very late practice. Agricultural policies, unfortunately, have destroyed the farmer's ability to buy. I don't want to give a lot of parites here, but a parite alone may be enough to explain the loss of the ability of the farmer to produce many products in many ways. In 2002, it was enough to sell two and a half to three kilograms of wheat to buy a liter of diesel, but it broke down against the manufacturer, starting in 2004 during the AKP's rule. In some years, the farmer had to sell six or even seven kilograms of wheat to buy a liter of diesel. The situation isn't so different today either. For the past 13 years, the farmer has repeatedly lost the power to buy all the products. In the last twelve thirteen years, the loss of the power to buy only wheat from the farmer is about 18 billion TL in cumulative terms. For two years, the citrus manufacturer has been a real mess. The problems of the nut maker, especially in the market, were mentioned on this bench just the other day by a number of lawmakers. The AKP spokesman's words have been constantly increased in regional support. There is no response. It is pointless to compare the number of nominal agricultural supports in 2002 to the number of nominal agricultural benefits in 2017. Agricultural supports in the AKP's rulings have not been achieved in its place, in its time and in proper means. There have been such examples of support or practices that some of them are in business, economic schools, as an example event, or interesting. For example, zero interest loans were given, but all the manufacturers who took the zero interest loan were bankrupt. We've lived and seen this in AKP-backed models during the ruling period. Besides, there has been no increase in support as a percentage of the illegitimate domestic product. Since 2003, the GDP rates have not reached 6/1,000. In 2002, when you didn't like it, the Republic of Turkey supported the manufacturer, the farmer, at a level of 6.6 percent of the GDP per thousand. Today, I say to Mr. Minister of Agriculture, that we, the National Movement Party, find this budget to be low on agricultural support, that we will provide all kinds of support and assistance to increase it. Let's double the support of 2017, which is 5.3 per thousandth of the GDP, and let's all carry out the minimum 1 percent of the GDP. Agricultural support is not just support for the producing population. Such perception also occurred during the AKP ruling period, unfortunately. Agricultural support is also supported by the food and health of 80 million. Agricultural support is also an insurance policy for the employment of millions, agricultural support, and food security. Agricultural support is also a support for the growth of a healthy generation. I hereby ask that the 2017 budget be a blessing to the Ministry of Agriculture, our producers, our consumers, and our country, for good luck, for good, and for the greater good, and for the greater good, I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0014par0273	Thank you, Mr. Karakaya. The talks on behalf of the National Party for Action are complete. Mr. Ahmet Yıldırım, I believe you have a request according to Article 60 of the Civil Code. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0015par0279	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm sorry to tell you, we're not in a very high-quality process. This is my third central management budget in a year and a half, one of which is a three-month temporary budget and one of which is 2016 and 2017 central management budgets. First of all, this photo is a picture of how high-quality legislation we're running, what a quality budget-making process we're running. More important than that, and what I really want to talk about is: Today is the 4th day. On the first day, talks were made on all of them, and the relevant Deputy Prime Minister and ministers are taking a pledge on behalf of the government at the end of the day. I'll tell you about the first day: Think about it, a statement from the President about a general president who was talking all over him about exchange exchanges, he came up to the review and pointed out a piece of paper that he claimed was a decontamination. But no one's ever found out what this decon really is. Because the guy who showed up with that receipt should've at least handed it out to the party groups. A decomposition like this is a different kind of weirdo, what a president's decomposition would be doing in a minister. Another thing is, Mr. President, look, we're not here to draft this budget, we're trying to strengthen it with criticism and suggestions in the General Assembly, and the power doesn't agree or disagree. But unfortunately, we don't get any concrete answers from the ministers, so they just leave because they're the last ones to do the talking. The answer to that question was not answered. It was very important. We can't get a chance to say it. I'll just give you two examples and finish it, Mr. President. Look, number one: Yesterday torture claims were frequently brought up on the budget of the Human Rights and Equality Agency of Turkey. There isn't. It's being passed on. But shouldn't the Minister be doing this: Shouldn't he be doing a search over there on applications to the Human Rights Commission? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0016par0287	Please complete your statement, Mr. Lightning, and I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0015par0288	Another example of different languages and dialects: In 2002, I claimed that radios and televisions had been turned off, which had been opened in Kurdish, based on a law that had been passed before the current power, that 30 of them had been turned off, and I had only waited for five of them to be counted, not that day, but then I said, "There is no answer until now, because there is no such thing." Another, finally: Look, we have no concrete information about the practices they face regarding the refugees. These allegations are serious claims, damaging the country's reputation inside and outside. I'm saying the cabinet members need to take care of the reputation we're supposed to protect before we do. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0017par0291	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0018par0292	Mr. President, I have a brief request.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0017par0293	Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0018par0295	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to bring something up while our Minister of Transport is here. This is the repair of Samsun Wednesday Airport, which has been closed to traffic for three months due to repairs. Now, there's a tender in time for this, given a year in this tender to the contractor company.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0019par0297	Mr. President, there's a department of questions.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0018par0298	On October 1, 2016, the work must begin and be completed on October 5, 2017, but it still hasn't started. Now, your condition is 33. The 7th article says: "In the process of making the contract, the airport will be taken by passengers and contractors to ensure that air traffic is not interrupted." However, what's done here is...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0019par0299	Mr. President, the questions department didn't start.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0018par0300	It's not a question, brother, it's not a question. There will be questions, dear President.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0020par0302	Ramadan, this is a group of vice presidents.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0021par0303	The questions department didn't start.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0020par0304	If the vice president of the group wants a word, he'll give it to you, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0022par0305	Now, I've been trying to reach the Minister of Transport for a month. So if a congressman, a group of vice presidents, hasn't been able to reach a minister on the phone for a month, he has to address the problem somehow, Mr. Secretary has to listen to it. Now, the order given to the company is to close the airport in March, April, May -- three months -- in order to do so. Of course, 500,000 passenger traffic is on the agenda. Samsun is on his feet. So this is something that would seriously damage Samsun's trade, Samsun's tourism, and there's a breach of the law by breaking the terms of the tender. So, now, here, of course, there's also a flaw in planning, Mr. President. So this 19-centimeter hole didn't just happen at this airport, and it was faced with something like this because the measures that should have been planned long ago were not taken on time, and that was a serious problem. Also, the second track is actually on the line for Samsun, and it has to be.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0023par0310	Please complete, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0022par0311	I'm finishing, Mr. President, thank you. Now, the second runway is actually something to think about. I talked to the DHM General Manager, and we're actually thinking about the second track for Samsun. I mean, these are things that can be done so easily, they're so much trouble in the country. If we see the need for this second runway today, these needs don't come out in a day. That's the plan. It's 14 years of power, so if he thought about it two years ago, if the second track work had been launched, he'd be on the second track of Samsun today, and he'd be able to do it without ever shutting down the first runway. Without any consideration, an attempt today to victimise Samsunu and Samsunite would harm Samsun's trade and tourism and would be illegal. Of course, there are the sensitivities of Samsun, sir, to increase passenger traffic in another airport. There are speculations in the form of a passenger. I'm not going in there, it's not true, I don't know that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] However, even without him, the work is wrong. This measure must be taken before it returns from this unlawfulness and closes the Samsun Airport. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0024par0316	Thank you, Mr. Master. 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account I'll now make a pledge to the members of the Republican People's Party Group to make a statement. The first speaker for the Republican People's Party Group is Aykut Erdoğdu, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Erdoğdu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0025par0368	Mr. President, we're discussing a law on the basis of Parliament, a budget bill. For God's sake, you've got 315 MPs in the ruling group, 15-20 MPs in total...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0026par0369	Mr. Aykut, it's always like this, always like this. You know the drill. You know the drill.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0025par0370	No, no, the responsibility of power, you'll be here, that's the budget of this country. Mr. President, I'm going to talk to you about two of the most important institutions of macroeconomics, such as the Banking Organization and the SEC. These are the castle institutions of macroeconomics. His staff has already been destroyed; the principle of seniority, of merit has been broken. Those 15 years of seniority, you broke the principle of merit, and then you called it terrorist, you threw it out on the street, and these institutions were destroyed. Now, let's take a look at our national accounting -- we're on the verge of an economic crisis, we're on the verge of the biggest economic crisis in history -- let's see what our situation is, folks. Our national accounting is shown in this document in this international investment position, published by the Central Bank. You've come to power. When you came to power, we had 62 billion dollars, and when you arrived, $147 billion, we had some kind of obligation, some kind of debt, and clearly the Republic of Turkey had an 85 billion obligation to other nations, a debt. You came to power, 13 years later -- for the year 2016 -- our total asset is 221 billion dollars. We also have that $120 billion reserve that you can't tell us about. Our total asset is 221 billion dollars. So, what's our total obligation? Dear friends of $611 billion, the Republic of Turkey owes $611 billion to all the nations of the world. When we drop out of existence, how much do we now owe to other nations? $390 billion. The Republic of Turkey owes $390 billion to other nations, and every year we owe $60-70 billion more in poverty in this country. And 60-70 billion dollars comes in every year. So, how did this $611 billion obligation come about? They owe us up to our throats, the citizens of the Republic of Turkey are in debt to the throats. That wasn't enough, the most important of our national and strategic institutions were sold to foreigners. TELEKOM sold to foreigners, sold to foreigners, airports sold to foreigners, banks, insurance companies sold to foreigners, 63% of our total $167 billion-sized stock exchanges were sold to foreigners. Here, this shows that Turkey is under a secret occupation. Unfortunately, the Republic of Turkey was increasingly colonised during the AKP period. The most profitable companies in the Republic of Turkey are now in the hands of foreigners, and this country is under a $611 billion obligation, dear friends. So, what happened at home in this $611 billion obligation? Now, what are the banks we've been talking about with your budget, dear friends? These banks, for thirteen years, received interest from the Republic of Turkey for $1 trillion 69 billion -- I'll say with new money, from the old money to the top of 10 figures -- from the Republic of Turkey. One trillion 69 billion dollars is roughly half of our national income. And when did they get it? At a time when the funds in the world increased, when the interest was close to zero, for thirteen years, the total interest this people paid banks was $1 trillion, 69 billion. Over 1 trillion and 69 billion other revenues. So, what did these banks do with their income, including the stock market, that's about 45 to 50 percent that's gotten into foreign hands? Who made all this income? Our citizens who work at that bank are the teller, the expert, the inspector, the bank clerk. How much did they pay for these? All personnel costs -- 1 to 136 billion liras. The 451 billion dollars were given to the deposit holders, which I'm about to tell you are not our people. They taxed 57 billion dollars and made $218 billion in this country in 13 years. You know, they say it's like a million people. There's no national income per person, some people have national income. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, we're coming, so, what has this brutal capitalist order done in this country? The only healthy picture we have of revenue and fortune distribution in this country is coming out of the BDK data. We're looking at BDK's deposit data, and there's a deposit total of $1.3 trillion in Turkey. Whose deposit is this, your people? No. There's a million and more accounts, so there's millionaires. The total deposit of these millionaires in Turkey is $714 billion -- 52 per cent of the deposit in Turkey -- about 30,000 accounts. Consolidate this, bring it down to the person, 7,500-8. A thousand people. The one-in-a-thousand happy minority living in Turkey has 52 per cent of the wealth in Turkey, the happy minority created by them from public resources. Do you know the total value of our people, our real people, these innocent people, who have an account in the bank between zero and 10,000 liras in Turkey? Forty-five billion dollars, that's three percent. They've taken 52 percent of our wealth into the hands of one thousandth of a thousand, and they've done so with the violent capitalism of religion. They have brought this country to a point where the wealth of the rich increases and the poverty of the poor increases. It's called rotten order. Where do we see this rotten pattern? We see this rotten pattern in Soma. I went to Soma. There's a farmer who's lost his brother, my guardian, we're not miners, we're farmers. Gas prices, fertilizer prices, seed prices have gone up so much that we can't farm. The last time we had chickens, they said bird flu, and they took our chickens away from us. We were hungry, we went down to the mine, he said. Those who were starved to death in this brutal capitalist scheme died in that mine. Here we are, Aladağ. Little girls, babies burned to death. They were burned to death, Mr. Ministers, because of this brutal capitalist order. Her mother is talking, she says: "I don't have a picture of my child. I had four children, and three of them died, and this one went away, and went out in the fire, and gave up poverty. Why did he give up poverty? You didn't build a dorm. Why did he die of poverty? You didn't make school. What did you do with it? You took it to foreign banks, foreign insurance companies, those foreigners, after our national capital, our national fortune. You come in today, you tell the people: "Sell a tattoo." What were you thinking doing that? I thought you were local and national. Why did you take the national fortune of the Republic of Turkey into the hands of foreigners? Today, poor people are selling foreign currency. For all we know, we will save the national economy of this country, as true patriots, as true patriots, we are prepared to sell our home, our car, our lives, but we cannot trust you because you are a collaborator of wild capitalism. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0027par0382	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the second speaker is İstanbul MP Ali Özcan. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Ozcan, your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0028par0387	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, every day we lose children, we give martyrs, and today we have martyrs. We've lost Ismet Sezgin. We've lost an important politician. Also, our very close friend, Ali Utebay, whom all of you would recognize, or rather, our party members would recognize, has been suffering from a certain illness for a long time. We lost Ali, who was a great minister to my party. I offer my condolences to this family and to the family of Ismet Sezgin, and to the families of our martyrs. How long will we wait to bring peace, friends, to stop the war? I'm here on a technicality. But you're creating such agendas that I want to make a political speech every day rather than a technical speech, and I want to talk briefly about delivery. But I'm here speaking to all the lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party, come, let's make an agenda here in one day, perhaps weeks to discuss what you're most proud of, and I'm ready to discuss it with you for an hour, two hours, three hours, half an hour. 1986, the inter-election, Recep Tayyip Erdogan candidate. In 1989, he lost his mayoral position in front of our Hussain Aslan. He became mayor in 1994, and I'm the mayor. By my age, of course, in those days, I gave the same advice as my brother. ▪ Democracy is not a majority, democracy is pluralism. You've been selected by a four-to-one vote. That's because the election system is wrong. You'll put law and democracy first for him. As mayor, I'll be with you on everything you've done right. If you act like this, you'll have a reputation of 75 percent outside, covering them, contributing to your future goals. I told you. He got 34 percent in his first prime minister's office. The country's most important problem today is peace, peace, stability, and justice. It's not possible to achieve democracy without prioritizing the law. And for that, we have to consider the rule of law, not the law of the superior. But, how could this happen? Of course, it's independent of the judiciary. Well, do you? You don't want to. Legislature, execution, judgment, a system that works separately, balances and controls each other, and in the time that we don't bring the mechanism, we talk a lot about this economy, we talk a lot about corruption, and our children and grandchildren will suffer from it in the future. We don't create the climate, the freedom of speech, the ability to speak freely to those who want to live freely in our country. You have a statement in the government of Davutoglu concerning the houses, you have a commitment that the mosques will be a sanctuary. In the next government, this was completely removed. The Alevis are taxing and military in this country, and they are really paying their taxes in the Republic of Turkey, and they are freely expressing their freedom of mind in the Republic of Turkey, but they will never and will not allow and deny their tax to those who delay this practice in this government. You know, we're saying that you're really taking the rights of not just a servant, you're taking the rights of the people who want to live free of their faith. You will surely pay what you cannot in this world in the next. Guys, this is bad. When I was in elementary school -- my time knows -- from math...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0029par0396	The minister's on the phone. He's on the phone.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0028par0397	... Take it well, take it well, but there's a pattern and a way down, and if it's weak, you guys can't pass the class. (CHP clapping in rows) So the state of this government and its goings-on are bad. I made the transport, I made the railway, I made the banks like this. You can't pass through the community, you can't take notes, you can't leave. Do it immediately, but now. Now, at the bottom of the economy, there's no tourism, there's no textiles -- I'm talking like a businessman now -- no exports, no scissors between exports and imports. Cari's open -- here's Aykut with the numbers -- on the dot. The more you talked, the more you brought the dollar, 10 cents, 4 liras. Oh, shut up! Just shut up and let the dollar go down, at least! (CHP turns to applause) Not by turning dollars into Turkish money! No! In and out, our young children die, become martyrs. It's a good place to be a martyr, but why are poor poor children martyred when most of the income -- as Aykut put it -- is at 1%, while less than 99 percent -- So, here's the law of the Public Contractorship. I gave it to him, and I'm waiting, and I'm still waiting. Why isn't this answered? If you do that, you'll really end the corruption. Solve the relationship between a politician and a businessman and a bureaucrat, and you'll figure it out. What is the meaning of the Turkish-owned fleet? What's the Koster Regeneration Project? The value you give concrete and the cement, come, give it to the sea, give it to the people. Turkey is in a real dead end. What's it to us to fly the world? Now, you've pulled 40, 50 planes into the hangar, you're going for 78 million and you're buying private VIP planes. Isn't that enough planes for you? What's the waste? What's with all the passion? Please stop this. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If we make a proper law, if we take out this law, the firms who really make it moral and think about the public interest will take advantage of it. If Osmangazi, the third bridge, the third airport, Eurasia; at the appropriate price, the Treasury guarantee and the tender conditions are really fair, who can argue with that if they consider the environment and nature? No one can argue.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0030par0404	Mr. Ozcan, thank you. Your time of conversation is over, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0028par0406	Is it over, sir?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0030par0407	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0028par0408	I was going to give an example here, Mr. President, just so you know, I'll tell the president that if he finds out, they'll understand. In education, in development, in Korea after us; in education, in exports, in everything. You can never talk about researching the reasons for this, you can never talk about development in Turkey, your big Turkey goal. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0031par0412	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0028par0413	You can never send MPs to prison without a trial. If the Republican People's Party had been sent from the Justice and Development Party who had been caught in the act without trial, whatever you had done, we would have to present the same situation to all the MPs who were there today in prison.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0032par0415	Speak without shouting!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0031par0416	Mr. Ozcan, thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0028par0417	You can't suspend teachers, exports to journalists, academics, teachers who have had a one-day strike in 2015.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0032par0418	We're listening. Speak without shouting, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0028par0419	Teachers may be our most important asset before our mother and father.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0032par0420	Speak up, sir! Sir, speak up!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0028par0421	You'll take care of the teachers, my friends!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0033par0422	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the third speaker is Serdal Welcuoğlu, Mersin MP...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0032par0423	Speak without shouting! Speak without shouting.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0034par0424	He's gonna ask you how to talk?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0035par0425	Peace, peace, together... if there is one, I'm here in the House. For the rest of my life, I will cry peace, peace, peace, peace.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0032par0427	Speak without shouting, sir. Don't show off, don't show off.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0036par0428	These are very warrior gestures for peace.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0037par0429	He's the heart, he's the heart.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0038par0430	Here you go, Mr. Wellercuoglu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Wellercuoglu, you've been speaking for six minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0039par0433	Mr. President, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I have taken a pledge on the 2017 Highway budget. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, as you know, highways are a private budget. Projects run by the institution's model of public-private cooperation pose serious risks for our country's economy. These projects are not limited to the General Directorate of Highways. Although many projects have been conducted in our country, including energy production facilities, territorial projects, ports, airport projects, health facilities projects and so on, the Court's audit reports are not included in any audit reports except for the General Directorate of the Highways, there has been no assessment of possible risks in terms of public finance due to these projects. The size of the financial burden will be very difficult to compensate for for the Turkish economy. The General Directorate of Highways has two very important projects that are not reflected in Court audit reports and financial tables. One is the Gebze-Orhangazi-Izmir Highway Project, and the other is the North Marsha Highway Project. The guarantee for these two projects is 56 billion and 800 million TL. Dear MPs, I'd like to share with you the account on Osmangazi Bridge. The Ottomangazi Bridge is now an average of 12 to 13,000 vehicles per day. When we accept this as 15,000 - assuming it passes -- the government will pay for the passing cost and the contribution of 25,000 vehicles, since 40,000 vehicles are committed to transit. That's $490 million a year. In short, $490 million a year will come out of the treasure. According to the General Directorate of the Highways, gross revenues obtained in 2015 from the Conqueror Sultan Mehmet and Boğaziçi Bridges are 105 million dollars. The annual revenue from existing highways in Turkey is $286m. So, when you add these up, it's totally $391 million from bridges and highways, which is over $100 million in our $490 million commitment. The passage from Orhangazi is 88.75 euros; the connection to Sabiha Gökçen is 17.5 euros; if you take the highway from Sabiha Gökçen to Izmit, you pay $2.50, which is a separate freak. The opening of bridges without a connection path creates separate problems. Instead of solving the traffic problem, these hastes lead to a lack of resolution. The transport plans for Istanbul prior to the third bridge have been completely changed by the third bridge resolution, and the old studies have been thrown out, unfortunately. Unscheduled planning, feasibility, and the intervention of politics in technical studies have brought heavy costs. The Marmaray, called Marmaray, was actually a single project from Gebze to the Ring, which was called Marmaray, which was quickly opened when it was delayed. In fact, the Marmaray Project, which began in 2004, is still under way. The tradesman, who has been closed for four years, is also experiencing serious problems from those stations, due to damage from the suburban lines. As a result, these projects are risky projects, and the risk of guarantees being carried on the back of the public is too high, and this application model must be abandoned. The average investment period of 3.7 years expressed in the budget presentation does not reflect the truth. For example, the 2016 work provided by the Ministry of Transport has nothing to do with 3.7 years. Our friend just told me that the double road project in Mersin-Anthalia started in 1985, and it's still going on. The road to the Tarosian-Winning tourist zone began in 2011, with a distance of 12 miles [13 km] and a mile [4 km] still standing. We can also replicate these examples. We, of course, will thank you for what has been done, but it is our duty as opponents to tell you the wrong and the wrong. Dear friends, in fact, I, as an engineer, and as a transporter, certainly favour the development of the transport of the railroad. With both cost and security and investment life savings, energy savings and the environment, it would be more appropriate for us to weigh down on the railway. During the Ataturk period in our country, there were only 1,804km of railways made during the 14-year period, while in the 14-year period there were only 14 or 15 years of AKP, where there were so many technologies and possibilities. A mile of highway costs $8 million, while a mile of railway costs $3 million. The railway length of 10,000 people in EU countries is 5.1km, while the ratio is 1.4km in our country. The number of passengers carried through iron is seven times more than the number of Turkish passengers in Italy and 11 times more than France. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It is useful to increase the number of passengers carried through iron. For many reasons I've considered above, he thinks it helps to put weights on railway projects, and he wishes that this budget would bring benefits to our country, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0040par0444	Thank you, Mr. Wellencuoglu. Now, it's time for Eskişehir MP Cemal Okan Yüksel. Here you go, Mr. Yüksel. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Yüksel, your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0041par0449	Mr. President, I'm the esteemed lawmakers, and I'm the BTK. If there was an institution called BTK 20 years ago, it would have been discussed in budget talks 20 years ago. Opposition lawmakers on this stand would share statistics that show that information technologies were rapidly developing, that their share of the world economy was increasing rapidly, and they would try to squeeze power by asking where we were in this race. So I know exactly what I'm supposed to do as an opposition MP, but you know very well that during these talks in December 2016, after 14 years of AKP's power, it's funny to talk like that, it's like talking about a dying patient's need for a hairdresser. If I asked you how many people you listened to in 2016, how many other sites did you block, how many more do you want to block access, whether you want to shut down the Internet completely, or if I asked you what you did against cyber attacks that threatened our national security, then you'd know what Turkey is up to. A citizen who hears my questions says, "Here's a deputy who knows the state of his hometown." But he knows, you know, these questions don't mean anything anymore. Turkey was in part among the free countries last year in the Freedom House's Internet Freedom Report, and this year it went three steps further among countries where the Internet was not free. The website, which has been censored or closed in the last decade, is 116 thousand. The BTK covered 94 percent of this, 108. Or 48 per cent of all the computers in Turkey are affected by harmful software. If I were to say we're the world's 2nd place on this, what does this BTK do besides ban the Internet... As civilized people of a civilized country, where does the BTK budget go when it's being discussed in this parliament? (Where in the world are we?) We should be asking questions and looking for answers, but we can't because we can't do what a civilized government is supposed to do and how do we get everyone to access everywhere? There's no excuse, there's a power that thinks, "What are you doing?" There's a mobster who lynches people who ask, "What are you doing?" It's a good thing there aren't as many traitors in our country as the government's gunmen claim, but there aren't any. For example, they stole a section of the KPSS questions, distributed them to their own people, took away a bunch of people's rights. The same people listened not only to us but also to the people who voted for the AKP, but to blackmail them with information they obtained. And when their betrayal was compromised, they arrested them and put them in jail, and power didn't care. At that time, power was like a cat in the face of traitors, and they understood when they were listening to themselves, and they became lions. What do we understand? Traitors can steal a citizen's job, including those who voted for the AKP, the country's army can destroy it, they can pour all the contracts into their safes, they can blame the law, they can still not be guilty, they can't listen to the power's phones, and if they listen to this poster, then, wow, terrorists! We should be asking where the world is going, where we are when the BTK budget is being discussed in this House, looking for answers. Thousands of lawmakers who lived in these rows before us did. Of course, there were many flaws in Turkey at the time, but it was a healthy Turkey, healthy and imperfect. Now... now we live in a sick country. If you don't like it, we're already going to the Shanghai Five. If you think they like us that way, you'll look good in it! It's not where Internet freedom is concerned. I'll tell the Shanghai Five you'll look good, but you'll have a hard time there. China, for example, found that the cell phone industry was growing rapidly, started building cell towers, became a laughing stock when it first entered the sector, and now more than half of the world's stations are made of Chinese. I mean, you guys would screw up in the Shanghai Five with that head of yours. You only know how to say "I am a lawless citizen." When you can't produce goods to sell, the economy goes down, the dollar goes up, and then you're like, "The upper mind started a war, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah."
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0042par0453	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel. Now it's time for the Republican People's Party Group to speak for Tripoli MP Haluk Pekşen. Here you go, Mr. Pekşen. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Peksen, you've been talking for six minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0043par0458	Mr. President, respected lawmakers emphasised a single sector when the coalition government began its transition reforms to the strong economy in 2001, which included a single sector, which was the aviation sector. Indeed, it is not possible to be horrified at the state of the aviation that was planned at that time, when it came to what it was today. Look, in 14 years of AKP power, 15 airlines have gone down, they really are champions. In 14 years, 13 passenger transports and two cargo companies have sunk 15 companies. I can give anyone a list of companies. In fact, one of them sank after being elected the most successful company in Europe for two years in the charter field. When that company went down, it had 21 planes and brought 10,000 tourists to Antalya every day. The money for that was $10 million a day, but they blew it. Why? Either you're mine or you're going down, that's AKP's logic. You'll either be mine or share or sink. It's sunk, and the company's name is here. But it wasn't enough. After that, he'll be mine and you'll act the way I want him to be, with Turkish Airlines on the target. Turkish Airlines is on the ground in such a dramatic place, 48 planes are on the ground, and unfortunately 19 of them are A330 Airbus, big planes, and one of them -- one of which is a new one from Algeria -- is from A340, and he is on the ground. Forty-eight passenger planes are waiting in the park, and the cover is: they're being groomed. Who are you kidding? What maintenance base is there in Iconya? What is there in Kayseri? Everyone's fed up with these lies. Look, it's just rent costs about $50 million. So, what happened to the lines of these planes? 22 lines have been cancelled from Europe. Either the planes don't fly here or they can't find passengers. Flying planes don't have enough capacity. Why? Because of what was planned for them, what they had been properly analyzed, none of them had been done. That's why they can't find passengers for the planes now. The damage is now only $50 million a month as rent money, but with general expenses, with all operational costs, 70 million a month. Dear lawmakers, here, of course, beyond interpretation, I'd like to share technical data with you, but there's data here, I assure you, law schools must be studied as lessons on the criminal law bench. I advise you to take the Court reports from here, university students, law schools, please, and read the evaluation, which ends on page 101 of the Court's report, starting on page 98, how to defraud public resources in a country, how to embezzle money, how to set up a criminal organization, a criminal organization for interest, and how to manage a criminal organization. Look, there's an air square called Victory Air Square. The airline guarantees passengers for the air square. Look at the part where the passenger guarantees were made, the passenger number of the plane was 3 per cent then 4 per cent, then 2 per cent. So the government said that the number of passengers to fly here is 100, and I guarantee it. How many people have flown? Two people, three people high. So, what happened? After that, the government, the DHMI, paid to the company from the taxes of these poor people. What's paid for? In three years, 10m euros are in the court report here. Well, is it different with the others? And then there's Istanbul. It's an amazing story. I think this file alone is enough for the Supreme Court process. To the bureaucrats here, they've signed like you in the past. Take a look at the examples related to them. I assure you, you will remember these documents on the Supreme Court steps, and you will remember this talk because this scenario, which you call the Third Airport, is truly a horror. Every one of these scenarios is a story of corruption. Everything you can think of in criminal law is explained here. It's about how these poor people's money can be scammed by a certain scheme. It's all documented, the Court report. If you have anything to say about this, I'd like to hear it. Mr. Secretary, have you ever ordered an investigation into these corruptions, these Zafer Air Square corruption and what's going on in the Civil Aviation General Directorate? If you did, we'll follow it, but if you haven't, I promise you, I will never let this go. An example: Look, the Civil Aviation General Directorate was one of the world's most successful general managers before you. For the first time in the world's Civil Aviation Security Agency, a Turk was elected President by a unanimous vote, but during your rule, Turkey was expelled from the European Civil Aviation Agency. You know why he got kicked out? They don't accept the pilot's license you gave them, maintenance licenses aren't accepted, health licenses aren't accepted; do you know why? You made one of the State Railways a general manager; they came and inspected it, and said that neither the knowledge nor the quality nor the morality of this man is enough to carry this license. I'm ashamed, I'm ashamed of everything you've done for my country in the name of aviation. But I'll definitely ask for your legal account. I'm on to you, I'm on to you. You will be tried on the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0044par0467	Thank you, Mr. Pekshen.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0045par0468	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0044par0469	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0045par0470	I want words according to 60.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0044par0471	Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0046par0472	He told the government, Mr. President, he didn't tell the AKP. There's no need, we'll answer.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0047par0476	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have described our logic as either mine or you're going to sink while we're on the stand, and we absolutely deny it.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0048par0477	Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0047par0478	Here...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0048par0479	The government is being criticized here. There's no painting like that.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0049par0480	Mr. Sky, please, sir, I promised.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0047par0481	Mr. President, here...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0048par0482	But there's no painting like this.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0049par0483	Mr. Sky, please, sir...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0047par0484	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0048par0485	I mean, a group of vice presidents can't speak for the government. Is there a painting like this?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0049par0486	Dear Sky, look...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0047par0487	Mr. President, don't interrupt me.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0049par0488	Wait a second...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0050par0489	Mr. President, the government is being criticized here.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0049par0490	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0050par0491	The government's budget is being discussed. Why is Mr. Mehmet Mush taking it upon himself and talking? Aren't the ministers supposed to answer?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0051par0492	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0050par0493	That's not true.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0051par0494	Mr. Sky, don't interrupt me.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0052par0495	Mr. Sky, Mr. Mush... one moment, sir, Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0050par0496	There is no such procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0052par0497	Mr. Gök, please don't remind me of my work.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0050par0498	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0052par0499	One moment, Mr. Sky, I'm speaking, sir, please.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0050par0500	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0052par0501	Wait a second, let me finish my speech, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0050par0502	In a minute...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0052par0503	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0050par0504	He can't respond to criticisms against the government, deputy leader of the group.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0052par0505	Mr. Sky, I understand what you're saying.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0050par0506	They'll say what they have to say and then they'll put it on the stand. The government is in charge here.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0052par0507	Mr. Sky, I don't have a problem understanding, why do you repeat what you say twice, three times?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0050par0508	Mr. President, we understand what Mr. Group Vice President is saying, and we have the capacity to understand it. No way!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0052par0509	So I beg you, Mr. Sky, should I act like this, Mr. Sky, should I not promise you when you press the microphone and press the button and speak?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0050par0510	Mr. President, you need to warn me after you start talking, but there's a government here. I mean, we're criticizing the government here.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0052par0511	One moment, sir, and I'll finish... my condolences to you, Mr. Sky. Now, let me give my speech. A member of the group is pressing the button, demanding word. Mr. Group Vice-Presidents who govern the merger in the event that the vice presidents press the button and ask for a word, will make a commitment to our traditions, and I will, of course, promise them if they want to. Mr. Mush, he asked for a promise, I gave him my word. In the first sentence of his speech, he stated that the speaker did not accept a sentence he said to his own groups. I mean, where's the government in that?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0050par0513	The entire speech of our speaker is directed at the government, Mr. President. That's not the right approach.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0052par0514	But wait a second, sir. Look, Mr. Mush said, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Haluk Pekşen used a sentence like this for the Justice and Development Party Group. We don't accept that. Where's the bullying in the government, Mr. Gök? Please.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0050par0515	Mr. President, all my friend's speech is directed at the government.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0052par0516	One second, sir, one second... look, I'm a sensitive person in these matters. Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0053par0518	Mr. President, thank you. I can make the division here, the government. It was not elegant for Levent Bey to interrupt me, so it was not polite. We work here together, we work together, so he didn't even give me a chance to finish my sentence. Of course, there are criticisms against the government here, and the government will answer them. What I'm saying here is that he, AK PARTY, has a logic that either you're mine or you're going to sink. We're talking about our party group here. Besides, the government is out of this party group. The AK PARTY is the government, but it says that our party group has that kind of logic, that our party has that kind of logic. I'd like to say that we absolutely refuse. We are a party that has run the free market economy since the day we came to power, and this free market economy has its own conditions, its own logic, and in that logic markets work. It's about what he claims to be, Mr. Secretary, that he will respond to these accusations, but I'd like to remind you that the airway was the way of the public during the Justice and Development Party period. Let's take a look at the number of citizens that are flying planes, and since we've come to power, let's look at the cost and cost of flying planes today, let's take a look at the cost of passengers.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0054par0522	Finish your words, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0053par0523	In fact, in this sense, it is clear where the Justice and Development Party has brought its air carriers as party policies, and I will declare this: Turkish Airlines has been the best airline in Europe for four years in a row. This is a national value, this is a company of the Republic of Turkey, and I think we should all be proud of it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0054par0525	Thank you, Mr. Mush. Mr. Peksen...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0055par0527	Mr. President, I want word on these statements.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0054par0528	I can't promise you an explanation, Mr. Pekshen.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0055par0529	But since these explanations have a way of taunting me, they're all about my views, I'd like to make a promise.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0054par0530	Mr. Peksen, this is not a taunt. You expressed an opinion...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0055par0531	Mr. President, but he says what I don't say, he says what I don't say, I don't say what I don't say.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0054par0532	Does it mean you said a sentence you didn't say?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0055par0533	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0054par0534	Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0055par0539	Mr. President, members of the law, I'm a lawyer. I'm a lawyer who's been very careful about what, where and when I should say it all my life. In my professional career, I took great care of it. I would never allow a violation of my rights, not on my part. I choose my sentences very carefully. It's time to give an example of what I just said. Look, on November 26, 2016 -- much closer, very close -- the third airport was auctioned off to the subway line. In what way? It's an invitational. Who was invited? The baron contractors of the pool have been invited, and at a price that will not be seen in history. It was given to the company that was invited to bid $999.7 million. Why not an open bid? When did tunneling become a special job? They don't consider a contractor who doesn't make tunnels in Turkey. How can you squander the money of these poor people for a tunnel? How could I not bring this up here? Doesn't one-quarter of the water money, half of the electricity money, half of the gas money go into the pockets of the people who pay for water in your house? Don't I get to pay for this? Why are you being so touchy with this? Of course, it's a system, and I'm obliged to explain it. That's the job of the power of attorney I've been given. That's what I'm saying. I'm just saying what's written in the Net Court reports is what's required. I'm saying the judgment has to do it. I'm calling from here to the Ankara Public Prosecutor's Office. Read the Court report on Victory's Air Square, and if you decide not to follow, I will applaud you, but if you will not, please do so. That's what I'm saying. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0056par0543	Thank you, Mr. Pekshen. 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the sixth speaker is Samuel's MP Haydar Akar. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0057par0593	Mr. President, I'd like to express my opinion on the Energy Ministry budget today. Yes, the Ministry of Energy has become a consuming ministry, not a normal-producing ministry. The Minister of Energy was here a while ago, but I'd also like to address his father-in-law, who said, "There is no more water, there is no more water in the pump." I'd like to ask him, "Who emptied the water in this pump?" One of the heads of this pump is the Minister of Energy and Energy. The citizens are filling up, the Department of Energy and the Ministry of Transport are evacuating. Actually, it's the Ministry of Agriculture that needs to be evacuated. It's the ministry that needs to empty these round pumps, the Department of Agriculture, but it's the opposite in Turkey. (CHEERING) Who's unloading? The Ministry of Transport and Energy is evacuating. Now, given the Department of Energy's policy, where did the AKP government quickly come out of coal production, local resources, and return? It's been converted to externally dependent sources. In fact, it was a project that began before the Justice and Development Party ministries. It was a project that was started with natural gas along with Turgut Ozal, and we're talking about energy that's become dependent on the outside, we're talking about electricity production. What are these resources? As we all know, oil, natural gas, coal, hydroelectrics, nuclear and renewable energy sources. When you examine each one of these, Turkey's situation becomes very clear and clear. Look, the AKP, along with its governments, found 50 percent of the electricity energy produced by natural gas. They realized it was wrong. Why did they notice? Because outside dependency has increased, the current rate has increased, and the main cause of Turkey's problems today was that energy is dependent on the outside. We came to this point because of the production of natural gas, which has reached 50 percent in electricity production, and we're going back a little bit more these days, and hydropower plants are about to get in the way of electricity produced by gas plants. Here, of course, you have to divide the hydropower plants in two: there's electricity produced from dams, and there's electricity produced from plants built on streams, which we can see very easily by looking at the data from plants built on streams that have no value at all. Another issue: the cheapest power source is hydropower plants, which cost an average of seven cents, electricity produced from these plants, but today our electricity is sold to the citizens for 38 cents, and the number before that was 38 cents. The missing fugitives in the electricity that's being sold are given to distribution companies for 21 cents when you transfer the others. I mean, where's the seven cents, where's the 21 cents? That's because of the promises made by natural gas purchase guarantees, the damage to the state, the loss of the citizen. You're making another mistake to get back from the oil-generated electrical error produced by natural gas, you've put the nuclear plant on the agenda of Turkey, you've made two tenders, and I want to talk about them if I can afford it. Our energy sources are usually taken from three countries: they are taken from Russia, taken from Iran, taken from Azerbaijan. What should we do with our energy resources? We need to increase it, so we need to buy it from different countries. Yes, do you know that Turkey is currently using the most expensive electricity in terms of the buying power of 35 European countries in housing? The industry was in the fifth place before these increases, and you broke the record there today, and you went up to number one. How much more money do we take out of the citizens' pockets in the first rows? You share it, we share it, you speak with praise. The AKP MPs will be here shortly to speak on behalf of their own group. They're going to say, "This is how many dams we've built." They're going to say, "This is how many thermal plants we've built." They're going to say, "Our electricity production has come from here." You know, when you study the history of the Republic of Turkey, when you look at the ten-year period, we see that electricity production is more than ten years behind the previous decade. I mean, you haven't developed a production that can be praised like that. All of those governments return as roads, water and electricity. What the citizen calls them, they are made of taxes that he pays; all of your facilities are made by the private sector; they are made out of the pockets of the citizens. The citizen pays when he consumes electricity, pays when he passes by, pays when he goes through your tunnel, pays when he goes through your tunnel; you didn't do it, he makes them citizens. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'm looking at the missing fugitive; yes, the missing fugitive was about 19 percent before you came to power, 16 percent today. The missing fugitive is high in distribution areas where he's still missing, he's still at large, you can't develop a single project, he's missing, he's on the run. And in the world, the literature is missing, there is no escape. In Turkey, they added the word "trafficking" to them, adding the word "frequent." The average loss rate in the world is 8 per cent in Europe, while they are 15 per cent in Turkey. Most of our electrical production goes to illegal electricity. Actually, we need to talk about the reasons for the illegal electricity. You are using a fugitive here. You should not only blame the citizen. For a citizen who receives $1,300, the state cuts 60 lira of the $120 electricity bill, $70 of its $70; the government says the missing share says the share of the illegal, the company says, adding a lot of its shares to its pockets, and swallowing up what's in its pockets, the Ministry of Energy. It's divided into 21 distribution companies. You privatized 21 distribution companies for $15.8 billion, $15.8 billion. There's no Minister of Energy, bureaucrats here, with $15.8 billion, they didn't build a $1 thermal plant, they didn't build a $1 hydropower plant, they didn't build a $1 electricity plant, they didn't invest. Who's investing? He's making citizens of private distribution companies. If that private distribution company has planted a pole, if it's a meter of wire, if it's a transformer, it's taking money from a citizen, and it's taking its money in cash -- it's projecting it -- plus, it's taking all the service purchases from its own subsidiaries, causing that investment not being properly used, it's being transferred to its supporters. Yeah, and we had a nuclear power plant business, which I'd like to say. $38.3 billion is the price of two nuclear plants. What did we say? Electricity costs seven cents in this country. The purchase guarantee is 11 cents, 35 cents for today's money. How much would an electricity be sold to this citizen for 38 cents in a country where electricity costs seven cents? You know, I told you, $15.8 billion they don't have to privatize. If they built a thermal power plant, it would cost $9.200 to produce electricity, $6 billion. They make the same production for $38 billion, $38 billion, six times as much. Its source is foreign, raw material, foreign, spare parts, foreign; I don't talk about the environment; but all the resources of the thermal plant are domestic, coal is domestic, business is domestic, and domestic is cared for. You've exhausted all of Turkey's energy, exhausted all of its energy, left no energy in Turkey. Stop bragging and get your hands out of that citizen's pocket. If it's to be produced, I say we make it from local sources, and I offer you all love and respect.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0058par0607	Thank you, Mr. Akar. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, it is now the time to speak for Mr. Namik Havutça. Here you go, Mr. Havut.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0059par0611	Mr. President, I've been promised the Bor Research Institute. I salute your high council. It is no longer possible to talk about prosperity, peace, freedom, democracy in our country where the mines are being rapidly plundered by privatisations; sell, get rid of the model; the citizen's natural resources are being poorened; the country's natural resources are being pursued by supporters of the 14-year AKP government; prosperity, peace, freedom, democracy. In 2008, the dollar reached $1.17, 2016, 4 liras. According to these figures, in eight years, each of our citizens became three times as poor as a result of the AKP's wrong policies. The national income per person dropped from $16,000 to 2007, down to $9,000. The youth population has an unemployment rate of 20 per cent. Our people, our citizens, our soldiers are martyrs. Our people are being forced to emigrate. The journalists are in prisons for making news. What are you guys doing? By mismanaging the country, you're setting the stage for this bad turn of events. What do you do when you're having problems with all the neighbouring countries and there's economic difficulties in our country, unemployment has increased, divorces have increased? How can I make Erdoğan be president? You do the math. A pregnant woman is being kicked on the street in Izmir, and it's just been reported on the news that women's murders have increased by 1,500 per cent during your reign, and pregnant women's curfew is a sin. What are you guys doing? You're trying to get a pardon law against rapists and rapists in the middle of the night. I don't count the pensioner, the worker, the officer. Dear lawmakers, another member of parliament has just expressed: Turkey, according to the Global Anti-Corruption Coalition's statement -- these are not our findings -- the most corrupt countries in the OECD countries, and the whole world knows how big the impact of December 17th-25th corruption is on this. Dear lawmakers, boron is a very important product in our land where many people eat bread, and it's the salt of the industry in the world. Today, I'm going to tell you about a product made from a boron mine called a graphen. Maybe that's the first time you've heard it, and I've just heard it. It's a graphen, made of boron, about a million times thinner than a hair, 200 times stronger than steel, and one micrometer of this element is a thousand dollars. Look, Mr. Government officials here were saying that we're poor in terms of natural resources, we don't have oil, we don't have natural gas. But we probably don't have government officials in the world, not geographically, then 73 percent of the most important energy source is on our land. Look, this is very important. So where are we in the economic total potential when we have 73 percent of the world's reserves for the boron that will save our future, our children, our futures? We've got close to $1 billion in sales, $739 million in sales. Well, the world's reserve is $100 billion. Where are we? Look, we're at 1 percent, we're at 1 percent, valued lawmakers. Mr. Secretary, let's just say that even if our Minister of Energy is here. And then we're doing dollar-to-dollar cash literature. Our investments in the RD that will save us are the same as our children today's oil is a strategic product and the energy source is the same as the boron. Tomorrow, we will never consent to the privatisation of our children from the edge of the boron, which is a guarantee of our future. Because we know that -- that our union is there -- that we must protect the government, the Constitution, the mines that are the norm of all our nations, like our eyeballs. In Turkey, it's been a mineral range. The most beautiful land in Turkey is in the Kaz Mountains, putting out the fire with chemical water from the mine, my dear friends, will you look? The Kaz Mountains, where we have to protect them like our eyeballs, after the Swiss Alps, with the world's richest oxygen tank. So at this point, a calculation is that if we increase the derivatives of the borons after the graph, we make elements of the boron derivatives, and we convert them into chemical organic things, our income will increase 700 times that, 700 times that. So our $1 billion in boron revenue is expected to go up to $700 billion. And I'm going to express that in particular from here. Dear lawmakers, in the 14-year AKP administration, I have never seen a share of the budget come from here to me, to the worker, to the peasant, to the pensioner, to the officer. From here, I speak to my brother Ali, the farmer in Balıkesir, and in Sarıköy, who listens to us, saying, "Don't expect anything from this place. From here, I'm speaking to Sefik Hodja at Balıkesir Teacher's House, who is listening to us, and I'm speaking to the pensioner at Edremit Teacher's House: They don't stop, keep going; I'm telling you, don't stop, keep crawling. I wish you well in the budget.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0060par0622	Thank you, Mr. Havut. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the 8th speaker is Sinop MP Peace Black Sea. Here you are, Mr. Black Sea. Mr. Black Sea, your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0061par0626	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the Turkish Atomic Energy Foundation budget of the Appropriations of the 2017 Budget Act. I salute your high council. But I also want to make one thing clear. The Minister of Energy and Natural Resources was just here when other ministries' budget was being discussed. While his own budget was being discussed, the Minister of Energy and Resources, however, disappeared from here. And I strongly condemn that. Dear lawmakers, as a country, we need domestic and clean energy so we don't depend on energy outside. We're a country that doesn't produce uranium. The nuclear power plant is an option that is completely dependent on the outside, which is already challenging the country's economy and budget; this is not the solution. We Sinopians want to be the city of education, the city of culture, the capital of tourism. We need to focus on the energy that can be restored as Turkey, clean, non-existent. We Sinopians, we speak clearly, underlineing, stepping on and stress that Sinop doesn't want a nuclear power plant. We don't want a nuclear power plant, my friend. Dear lawmakers, Mr. Energy Minister's doctoral thesis says nuclear power plants are harmful to the environment and human health. Today, the nuclear power plant says it's essential. That's a hell of a contradiction. If the Minister wrote the thesis, then there's another hope for Sinop, for Akkuyu, for Needleda. You're already running out of political life. We're almost there, wait, you're not gonna get away with this. You'll be looking forward to it. Congressmans, Turkey is having an economic crisis, and you'll see it on the street. There's no need to look at economic indicators to see if there's a crisis. If you look at the Prime Minister's expression, you'll understand the economy, and we'll tell those who don't. Turkish lira has lost 15 per cent in the last ten months. Well, why? The dollar didn't just go up. On July 15th, when you walked around for years, the dollar went up. So you said, "Keep going." You said, "The dollar's up." You massacred the law with decrees under the law and the dollar went up again. You said, "O AB! The dollar has gone up." You were yesterday's interest enemy, today's dollar enemy. You're fighting the enemies you've created. Unfortunately, who's paying his bill? Innocent people pay, as always. This budget is not the public budget, it is the budget of the palace and the AKP. The palace and government's ever-opening budget, which has been imposed by the AKP, will unfortunately be approved by your votes. Here's your blessing. Agriculture's over. Our manufacturer is crying blood. We're dependent on the outside in every way. What budget are we talking about in a country where imports are encouraged instead of exports, ports, airports, mines, roads, bridges? The tradesman closes shop before he makes it. One in two is for execution. The minimum wage, pensioner, officer's wages have melted. That's how unemployment works. Young people are hopeless from the future. Terror's dropping fire on the furnaces. Our borders are full of holes, we don't know who's going in and out of the lines. We're out of foreign policy, no friends, no neighbors. Journalists are under arrest. The citizen's voice has stopped. Our education policy failed. The citizen has no confidence in soldiers, police, judges, prosecutors, justice, worst of all you and us politicians, but according to you, the country has more pressing issues. In your opinion, let our hungry citizens starve a little longer, no problem, we'll make the palace the presidential office. In your opinion, let our homeless, corrupt people wait, you haven't even bought Erdogan a VIP plane yet. How many planes do you love God? And let our young, who have no shoes on their feet, who have to go from village to school in the snow, on foot, on ice, wait, because we will make a world for the children and grandchildren of the palace. We've got a lot of work to do, a lot of work. Let our fellow contractors wait; they have promised a staff, they will keep it, if they have enough political life? For those of you who live in retirement, the minister says to keep them hanging out. Why does he say that? Because the palace has more work to do. Teachers who can't be assigned, you'll have to wait. Who cares if your friends killed themselves, you'll have to wait. Retired, laborer, officer, miserable. Is your conscience clear when you put your head on your pillow? I hope it's uncomfortable. Uncle Kazim Altay, whom I love so much in Sinop, says: "The spoils are plundered. You have found the land unclaimed, you plunder it, but this country is not without it. One day all of this will be accounted for by you. Congressmans, really put your hands on your conscience: All these people see all this corruption, all this insolence, and you don't see it? We have burning cubs, workers dying in mines without breath, children we can't protect from rape, harassment, women. We have thousands of young people we can't get jobs from. And there's the AKP government that doesn't feel guilty about it, and you don't trust your people. That's enough, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0062par0640	Thank you, Mr. Black Sea. Mr. Black Sea, the name Kazim Altay sounds familiar to me, and I think his children are saying the same thing.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0061par0642	Yeah, he's here, too.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0062par0643	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0063par0644	Mr. President, in his speech, he's talking about looting the country.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0062par0645	I'll turn on your mic, Mr. Mush, you're not making any noise.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0063par0648	Mr. President, the preacher is making threats from one side of the podium, and he's talking about us looting the country from the other. We reject this once and for all; there is no such claim, there is no such accusation. In every election, when people go to the chest, they see things, they make an assessment of them; they either end the power or they go on. So far, the economic policies of the EC PARTY have been approved by the country's administration, the people they've established, it's been announced and it's been said to continue. We certainly reject them in that regard. Sir, they're buying a plane for the President. Now, Mr. President, none of these are individuals, all of which are registered in public inventory, etc., just as the government, the authorities who were before us, had done the works that they've done, the works that they've established for the public, and so on. These are public, these are individuals, not individuals. And may I also say, sir, that we do not accept the president's children, his grandchildren... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Look, if you don't have any more political words from the podium, you're gonna start making it personal, you're gonna spill it to the kids, you're gonna spill it to the grandkids, it's inappropriate. This is not something that suits the V.A.'s bench, we deny it.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0064par0653	Thank you, Mr. Mush. Since there are criticisms for the government about issues other than buying a plane for the presidency, I think in the relevant budgets, the ministers will assess it themselves, and if they need to, they'll make a statement.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0063par0655	He's talking to us, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0064par0656	Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0065par0658	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, there's something special about the AKP Group. There are talks on the central government budget, all political parties will talk, the government is here and the government will respond as an executive body. The AKP Group is also present within the framework of legislature activities, and after the Republican People's Party, they will speak according to the order today. The person or institution who should have responded to all criticisms against the government here is the representatives on behalf of the government and the government. When the president's name is mentioned, the AKP Group stands, and the AKP Group stands when criticisms against the government are passed. Well, aren't we saying that there's no separation of forces in Turkey? Do the AKP group's deputy leaders have the right to maintain an understanding of legislation and governance? I mean, is the government here incapable of responding to their criticism? Don't you think the Minister should get up from there and say, "Sit down, sit down, I'll answer these." That's how much custody they have? Can we accept that?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0066par0662	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0065par0663	Let me finish, sir, if I may.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0066par0664	And I kept the microphone on for a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0065par0665	If you'd like, I'd like to continue standing up for another piece.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0066par0666	Yes, of course.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0065par0667	Mr. President, I mean, we need to follow the rules and the regulations that we've taken here. The argument we have just had is that the AKP Deputy Leader of the Group will use a word that he has received with malice. There will be criticism, of course, and that's the role of the opposition, to criticize power, but to respond to every criticism that turns to power is not the case of the AKP Deputy Leader of the Group. Our objection is to this, in good faith, that the right to a word that you have made may be used in a bad way. We'd like to file a report on that, too. It is the government who will answer; our government is the government; we are waiting for their voices to come out today, not the AKP Group.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0066par0668	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0067par0670	Mr. President, if you don't mind, I won't take your word for it, but let's not try to teach each other what to do here. I mean, we're both deputy group presidents, and Levent Bey and I have a good relationship, but please don't decide what I'm gonna do here. In matters related to the government -- and I've just expressed them -- the ministers will respond to them, but through the government -- the government is the government of the EC PARTI. I'm Deputy Group President of the AK PARTY Group.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0065par0672	No way, sir! That's not true!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0067par0673	Mr. President, for the record...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0068par0674	The legislature, it's gone!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0067par0675	I'm criticizing the government. You're going back to the AK PARTY group, where we can't keep quiet. We have to respond to allegations and accusations that we disagree with in this sense, and if they do, we'll answer again.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0069par0676	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0070par0677	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0069par0679	I think the AKP Group Deputy President is confusing the concepts. The government is the government of the Republic of Turkey. The government, which received the vote of confidence from this place, is not the government of the parties that gave it the vote of confidence, but the government of all 80 million, and it has to be. For one thing, we need to put these distinctions back together. If the government acts on this, the opposition has the right to give the harshest criticism. In view of these criticisms, the AKP Group may ask members of the government in private conversations, but the government is an independent executive body. The legislature is different, the government is different. No one has the right to confuse these concepts. Our friends will make the harshest criticisms here; it's natural, that's the nature of the work, the budget is discussed. The government can't take criticism of Turkey's opposition towards the best possible use of public resources on the AKP Group; it is the government who will take it upon themselves, and they have the right to speak. That's our objection.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0071par0681	While you're criticizing it, you're criticizing it over the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0072par0682	Mr. Sky, thank you. Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0073par0685	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, indeed, the statement of Mr. Mush was not appropriate. So there's a separation of forces. Of course, the government will come out of Parliament in the parliamentary system, but once it's out, the government is the government of the Republic of Turkey, a party government, not a party government. In fact, that's too much now, and every time a criticism is brought against the government, AKP's deputy presidents have to defend it. There's no need for that, we have ministers here, they can all defend them. And, for example, a review of the plane... I'm not one to make this criticism, but the answer to that, sir, when it's being criticised for buying a plane, is it going to be in the state's inventory... Of course it'll be in the state's inventory. But there's talk of a waste. While the world's superpower is trying to limit the buy-ins, the state of the Republic of Turkey has to pay more attention to its budget deficits, while the state of Turkey has to pay more attention to financial discipline. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0074par0690	Thank you, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0075par0691	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0074par0692	Please, Mr. Yıldırım, of course, if you wish, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0075par0694	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, I really owe a thank-you to Mr. Deputy Director of the Group. He confessed to something we've expressed for a long time, accepted, and said, "We have removed the distinction of living and walking." He even went further, look, he didn't associate running his own group with a group of legislatures, and he put the party together. So, the legislature, the execution, the party is one. In this respect, I want to thank him for making this confession, confirming our claims.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0074par0696	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0076par0697	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0074par0698	Mr. Mush, I hope this will be the last time.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0076par0700	This will be the last conversation. I know exactly what I'm saying. Don't try to make any sense out of what I'm saying. I'm criticizing the government here. If there's any bullying against the party group, of course we'll respond. I've told you this before, he'll answer to the ministries when the minister comes in, when he's concerned about the reviews, but let's not forget that that's what I'm saying, of course, law enforcement is different. I don't want you to take any other hints from what I'm saying and try to get any different meanings out of it. I say this: The government is trying to criticize the EC PARTY, and of course we will not remain silent. And then I said... I said...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0077par0702	The government is the government of the AKP. You said that.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0078par0703	The government is our government. You said it's the AKP government. You said it's the government.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0079par0704	That's what you're saying, the government of the AK PARTY. You're saying, you're criticizing him.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0080par0705	This government is out of the AK PARTY group. I will not, of course, remain silent while there is criticism here. I'm not going to defend the minister. The minister will come and give you his answer about his ministry here, but I'd like to rephrase our silence if there's any criticism of this for our party group.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0081par0706	Thank you, Mr. Mush. I have to make this clear: so far, I have made a promise to the members of the group, under Article 60. I have made no promise to any member of the group in accordance with the 69th Amendment. 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account Yes, now it's time for the Republican People's Party Group to speak on behalf of Zonguldak MP Şerafettin Turpcu. Here you go, Mr. Radish.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0082par0757	Mr. President, we don't know if the AKP has looted or looted Turkey in the first place, but the fact that even the Privatisation Administration's presidency will be shut down or shut down, the fact that Turkey no longer has anything to sell. Indeed, the [deeds] of this matter are for our people. Precious lawmakers are trying to draw a Turkey profile by saying the parts in which the ruling economy works and missing the parts that don't suit it. But what the government tells us is that we travel with Turkey, we see, we live together, Turkey is very different. As a member of the coal basin, I want you to know that these days are perhaps the most difficult period in Zonguldak history, and it is the same for our country's history. We today are at the very end of the situation where we face the contradictions, economic depression, and difficulties of AKP power. Zonguldak was once a province where people from all over Turkey came to work, where foreign heads of state were hosted, and today he was abandoned to his fate. Zonguldak is a city whose resources have been destroyed, whose opportunities have been taken away by stone. The road to Zonguldak, which cannot be completed in history, has become a laughing matter. Zonguldak is a town in its village with no planes flying today, no ships coming to its port, and no young people left in its town. The non-flying Teacuma Saltukova Airport has unfortunately become a place where military planes often land because of our martyrs, as a result of the wrong domestic and foreign policies of the AKP. Dear lawmakers, the Zonguldakans, who are forced to work in the mine for the development of the country's economy by the law of the taxpayers, are also condemned to state-owned unemployment and hunger today. Turkey's Taskömömü Foundation has now reduced its number of 18,000 workers to less than 8,000 today, thanks to the AKP, before 2002. The production capacity is now less than 1 million tons per year. The TTK, with about 6,000 workers short, is severely damaged because of no investment and no hiring. However, the government says that hiring will cost the public a great deal of money. Such an assessment means not taking into account the economics of the region, unemployment, the current effects of imported coal. The cost of imported 32 million tons of stone coal is around $4 billion each year. Six and a half million tons of this is the smellable coal used in the iron steel industry, which is already the smellable coal of the Zonguldak. When the exchange is rising, the imports are difficult, we can turn to our own resources, provide employment, and prevent $4 billion from going out. In recent years, I invite the AKP government, which has kept the concept of the national and domestic, to evaluate our source to prove whether it is truly national or unofficial. Dear lawmakers, it is estimated that Zonguldak, who once grew up to be three provinces and carried the country's industry on its back, will be reduced to 595 thousand in 2002 and 539 in 2023, which means Zonguldak will continue to shrink, migration, unemployment. You say Turkey grew up and won. But that's what you bring the capital of labor, Zonguldak. AKP and its supporters won, but Turkey and Zonguldak lost. Now, cash a tattoo for the public. You're making a call and trying to transfer from foreign currency to TL. We want to know what you're going to do about these big foreign projects, bridges, city hospitals and airports, where we guarantee treasure, where we're paying off the profits of the project, the companies, the tax-paying citizens, because we know we're paying off the non-committee, the planes, and the cars that don't come. From now on, our main agenda should be how to save the future of our country's economic collapse, how to get it back on its feet, how to make up for lost years quickly. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to make some suggestions regarding this, in the interest of Zonguldak: Zonguldak has given more than 5,000 mining martyrs in the history of 188 years of coal production. Our mine martyrs have been left out of the scope of the Soma Law in 2014, which has hurt our families and us deeply. An example of his contribution and loyalty to the country's economy since Ottomans should be implemented, taken into special incentive, and the migration must be stopped immediately. Turkey needs Zonguldak. It must return to TTK before its price is greater. The labour deficit must be fixed, the stone coal needed by Turkey must be restored to the economy; for this, the institution must be restructured. The Filios Harbor Project, which is scheduled to be laid off tomorrow, must be finished quickly. The Valley of Filyos must be opened quickly, not to contaminate nature, but to industrialize for employment. The University of Bulent Ecevit contributes to our city. The support of education and scientific studies through a second university to the Valley of Filyos will contribute seriously to the social and economic development of our province. Thus, growing up at the center and in Eregli (Ezevit University), a second university to be built in Filyos Valley will allow Zonguldak. The ancient city of Tios, two thousand and five hundred years old, must be set aside and ready to visit. The shipyards, which had been abandoned in the period of Eregli, where 6,000 workers worked, now 600 workers had not worked, must be brought into the economy, and if necessary, they must be sought to cooperate with the Navy Command. The shipyards are right under the nose of the Virtue, which is an advantage in itself. Eregli Shipping also has a history of over 50 years. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear MPs, I'm afraid our Minister of Energy is not here on these matters concerning Zonguldak. Hopefully, they've listened to my conversations. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0083par0774	Thank you, Mr. Radish. It's Edirne MP Okan Gaytancıoğlu's turn to speak. Here you go, Mr. Gaytancioğlu.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0084par0778	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. I salute the High Council. We're going to talk about 16 and a half million people, so one out of every five people is a farmer. I mean, I'm going to talk about the farmers that Ataturk had fought together in Çanakkale, in the Battle of Salvation, and the farmers that you had forgotten. You know, when Turkey used to feed the world, it was one of those self-sufficient countries, I want to talk about it. What problem should I talk about? How do I explain agriculture that has become completely problematic because of the AKP? Things are going well for you. Mr. Finance Minister gave us a pamphlet, and the USDA budget we talked about at Plan Budget Commission was $19 billion, and suddenly it went up to $30.9 billion. Where'd you get all this money? Of course, there's been additions. Why? We criticize you all the time, you don't give us 1 percent of the gay national population, we explain it scientifically, yet you play tricks on us with numbers. So I looked at the budget numbers there, and you added the VAT numbers that were removed in fertilizer and bait, and you said that you gave the loans to the farmer as support; you added the irrigation investments, the land collection, so you took the numbers out, but the truth is, our farmers are in debt. Why are they selling the field? Why do they each have three or five credit cards in their pockets? Why don't farmers want to make their children farmers? Let's see, from our country to some farming landscapes. For example, Uncle Hosni of Iconya says: "The wheat has been sold at the same price for ten years, but over $1 billion is being imported a year." Now the Minister will say: "We're exporting flour. Shall we import 1.5 billion dollars of wheat and export $1 billion of flour?" It doesn't have math. Uncle Ismet, of the servant, says: "With zero customs, sugar is imported, and I am put in quotas. You're constantly increasing the starch-based sugar quota. What kind of politics is that? Osman Aga from Edirne, my hometown, says I produce the world's finest rice, but I can't sell it for $1.50. Importing is killing me. There's an office called the Earth crop office. It doesn't take my charm, or it keeps me waiting in long lines. Uncle Ismet, the tomato maker from İzmir, says that I sell the product, but I can't pay the costs of fertilizer, electricity, diesel and water. Zeynep, from Antalya, says: "Mandelina is 35 cents, but in the market, it's more than $2." How does this happen? Uncle Seyit of the Army says the price of nuts is $10, brother, and that's the way it was last year, but what kind of politics is that? My brother Barýþ from Ardahan says that I can't compete with fake honeys when my tin honey is worthless. How is this the Department of Agriculture? Why aren't many food engineers being inspected when they're unemployed? Uncle Ahmet of Afyon says: "My little feeders are being hunted to the TOKI. I'm not being paid, but I'm being imported animals. Just three days ago, 500,000 animals will enter Turkey in five days, up to 31/12. We don't support our own farmer, but we continue to support the farmers of other countries. Anyway, I'll go on; brother Omar of Niğde said that the bag of potatoes is cheaper than shipping. We're finished, we're miserable. Uncle Hussein of Balıkesir: Our milk for the first time in the history of the cheap republic has exceeded the price of milk. Last week, I showed you a cow. I showed him the difference between the cow's food and the milk he gave me, and I told him it was damaged. According to our minister, the milk from this cow must be sold at $1.15, but go, 90-95 cents all over Anatolia; fertility, we have $1.7 cents. Again, from Tekirdağ to Hüsnü Agha says that after Petrol, they pay the most foreign currency for sunflower oil. Why do they give them money and not support us? Uncle Ayhan of Adana: I make the best cotton. When my cotton is worthless, they import cotton from Greece and give me $1 billion. Uncle Mahmoud, the lentil maker from Şanlıurfa, says that once my lentil was sold all over the world. If it weren't for Canada now, I wouldn't even be able to eat lentils. So, how did we get here? Yeah, well, let's face it, the AKP's got the wrong policy on agriculture. He didn't prioritize, he didn't support the manufacturer, he always found the solution in imports. Even some of the practices he copied from us from the Republican People's Party were wrong. We said, "Let's remove the VAT in the food, the fertilizer, even the VAT in the diesel." They said, "Let's move it. But they gave it to the brokers, they gave it to those who did the trade." Again, I want to go back to the book because I know what they're going to answer, and they're going to say, "We are the most supportive of agriculture in the OECD countries." I want to answer that as a scientist. There is a world of difference between the computation numbers of the OECD (OECD) and our computation numbers. The OECD supports the market price. Yeah, we have very high market prices. There's meat for 50 liras, 40 liras. How much is the meat in the world? Ten liras, 12 liras. When you look at these prices, we support agriculture very much. For example, we're doing 250 percent customs tax on meat, 100 percent on wheat. According to these numbers, we support agriculture, but they're low costs. We use the world's most expensive diesel. It's close to five liras of diesel, is that possible? The world's most expensive fertilizer, electricity... Since I'm having this conversation, my friends have called from all over Turkey. That's definitely not an exclusion. Everyone's called. Some have no electricity, some have debts, some are after loan sharks, some can't even enter their homes, some have divorced their wives, so that I can make amends with my wife. So these are the farmer's problems, his serious problems. I'd also like to show you that this is a movie, friends, a movie that's good, bad, ugly; we've all seen it, a western. What's good is we're still talking about these problems, we're still discussing them, there's a solution; the bad thing is this farmer's situation; the ugly thing is, you know it, but you don't interfere. But at the end of the movie, the good guys always win. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0085par0801	Thank you, Mr Gaytancioğlu. It was Sergio Leone's film, wasn't it, Mr. Gaytancioğlu?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0084par0803	Yeah, exactly.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0086par0804	I wonder if the Minister has seen it.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0085par0805	Now it's time for Niğde MP Omar Fethi Gürer. Here you go, Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0087par0808	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, agriculture, livestock, food problems are booming. Unfortunately, in agriculture, livestock, our addiction abroad continues to grow. We're addicted from seed to medicine, fertilizer to technology. Manufacturers produce under difficult conditions, can't sell what they produce at cost. Our villager, our farmer, has given up farming because the peasant, whatever the farmer sows, you cause him trouble. Our villages are coming quickly. In ten years, nearly a million farmers have left agriculture, and have migrated to our cities to seek employment. The farmer, the peasant, is in trouble. I was in the church, and in 2003, a farmer said, "I was selling the pepper for 1,250 cents a pound, and it's doubled the production cost, and I sold the pepper for 800 cents this year." That's the sum of the account. In Niğde, the potato rotted last year; the item cost 40 to 50 cents a pound was sold for 20 cents this year; it is now sold for its cost, and tomorrow is uncertain. The apple went to the juice factory for 10 cents. And the beets don't even know the price of 2016. Eleven years ago, 3 kilos of wheat were filled with 1 litre of diesel, and now 6 kilos of wheat received 1 litre of diesel. We've become a country that imports where we produce it. In the first four months of 2016, we imported 1.4 million tons of wheat, 2 million tons of grain, and paid $450,000. We paid $556 million for 370,000 tons of cotton imports in four months. Seven years ago we were a country that sold cotton abroad, and now we're buying cotton. In our country, we're growing an external dependency in every field. Mr. Secretary, if the manufacturer had no respect for the state, your ministry would be back in the marketplace with disposable products. Narcissa, grapes, apples, tomatoes, olives, pomegranates, jams, peppers, nuts, beets, melons, can't be sold for what's being produced. Both the thinking and the consumer have to buy expensive products. You couldn't even get the media system in order. You're not developing agricultural industry. The manufacturer has to grow crops by means of the grass. Mr. Secretary, you've finished our livestock. We've run out of animals to graze on our vast meadows. Our ceremonies are looted in most provinces. The milk is cheaper than water, and we don't have animals to satisfy the need for meat, because you're looking for solutions in imports. It's too bad about animalism! We're importing hay, animals and meat. The price of meat goes on, the poor have forgotten the meat at their table. There's an organization that belongs to you, the General Directorate of Agriculture Enterprises. Unfortunately, the institution that is going to develop this agriculture, it's going to develop animalism, it's going to transfer its own land into the private sector, away from agriculture, production, efficiency, but it's going to go to the Sudanese state and start farming. TIGEM is the task of developing a new race in livestock, but with imported animals, it's a mind-boggling solution. Her calf is down, her death is up, she can't even do it. The Meat Fish Foundation was also removed from privatisation, but there's the name of the meat, the corporate problem. Mr. Secretary, let's bring in the animal raised by the farmer of the world, we'll feed it for six months, then we'll cut it off, put it on the table, and we'll keep doing it, and I won't do it that way. You said, "I don't do the Department of Agriculture." That's what the AKP government has been doing for 14 years in agriculture, in livestock. Your ministry-based organizations are dysfunctional. The black-day office, the merchant friend, has returned to the office, and the farmer's complaint never ends. Gathering is the right idea, but it's driving by accident. Cases are piling up in the courts. There's no right and no justice involved. Water water problem, dry agriculture problem. The European Union's Rural Development Project was moved to 42 provinces, which unfortunately were not taken into agricultural areas, such as Niğde. Political distinction has also been made among other cities that have not been taken into this project. Congressmans, we're going through a period where we don't know what we eat or how we eat. The sub-stairs are in the market. The Ministry doesn't have enough staff to supervise. They also play with our bread, and in two days the bread becomes stone. You're opening a waste prevention campaign, not as useful as you spend on advertising. I wish you'd support the production of bread that won't be a stone in two days. It's possible to cut up animals with tuberculosis and brusella and sell them to fit the food codex, but shouldn't the consumer know that on the label? You don't even do that. You're about to destroy a strategic product like a sugar beets with an externally dependent, unhealthy sweetener. Stop delivering beets like tobacco into the hands of foreign trusts. Mr. Minister, both you and the Prime Minister are disposing of land. You say, "It's treason to build buildings in areas of agriculture." But you've been in government for 14 years. The fertile areas became a dwelling place, and there was no farmland around the city, and you even ransacked the Ataturk Forest Farm. The Mera are being transformed into a minefield. Why don't you do it, Mr. Secretary? Our farmer, our peasant, our manufacturer, is weary, weary, in debt under the bonds of banks... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] For a productive Turkey, the Republican People's Party is the only way to smile at the manufacturer's face.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0088par0819	Thank you, Mr. Gürer. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the final speaker is Manisa MP Mazlum Nurlu. Here you are, Mr. Nurlu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] After the speech of Mr. Nurlu, I will interrupt the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0089par0824	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the 2017 budget of the tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency. I salute the High Council. There's an institution in our country that is supposedly responsible for making certain sectoral arrangements in the tobacco and alcohol market, called the Institute for Education and Alcohol Market. I wonder how this institution organises what. If we say it regulates the tobacco market, 86 per cent of cigarettes packed in Turkey are made from foreign tobacco, imported tobacco, which we buy abroad. If we say he's organizing the alcohol market, the tax rate in the local raki has passed the imported whiskey. Strangely, the president of this country will scold and take a cigarette out of the poor citizen's pocket and throw it away, but when the economy is stuck, it will be helped by smoking, it will be helped by alcohol. Members of parliament, a package sold for $9.5 of cigarettes in our country is taxed by 83% and 70 per cent of a bottle of altitude. In total, tobacco and alcohol are aimed at collecting 45 billion lira in taxes, just as the ETV. Is there really a significant increase in government revenue due to this increase and increased taxes? No, on the contrary, it's getting smaller. Is there a reduction in drinking and smoking? Although the official numbers say they're dropping, consumption is increasing because because because of the high prices, consumers are unfortunately turning to illegal smoking, illegal drinking. Of course, depending on that, there's an increase in sub-stairs, unhealthy, illegal alcohol production, and millions of packets of cigarettes from abroad are entering the dorms. Even the fact that 143 million packs of illegal cigarettes were captured by law enforcement last year alone confirms our findings. Fugitive drinking, illegal smoking, both causes a major loss of government tax revenues and a serious threat to human health. Members of parliament, the TFE inflation rate has increased by 477 per cent during the last 13 years, while the TEFE inflation rate has been 171 per cent. Taxes on tobacco, alcohol and fuel are the most important revenues used to balance the Finance budget, but the government is on the back of a smoker and an evening smoker, if you will. Congressmans, one of the most important tasks of this institution is to plan the production and production of tobacco, but it seems that this institution has turned into an institution that has sunk the market, not the regulator. Let's see why: In 2002, when this institution was opened, for example, there were 43,000 tons of tobacco produced annually. Today, the number has dropped to 20,000 tons, which is still the province of Manisa, which produces the most tobacco. The annual production of tobacco in the country, with 260,000 tonnes in 1999, has dropped to 67 thousand tonnes today. Our exports of tobacco, 11,000 tonnes in 2003, have dropped to 31,000 tonnes today. Unfortunately, our imports of 55 thousand tons in 2002 are up to 92 thousand tons today. These are the official figures. We don't understand how the tobacco and alcohol market regulatory is organizing the market. Members of parliament, the numbers have shown that tobacco production in our country has been severely reduced, and our imports have increased exponentially. If we were to say, how did this happen, with the privatisation of TECEL (TECEL) for nothing, we could also call it a heavy invoice for our country's agriculture as a result of the manufacturer being sentenced to international tobacco cartels under the name of apatriotic agriculture? Members of parliament, according to official figures, from 2002 to today, the number of farmers planting tobacco has dropped from 600,000 to 170 thousand, while the tobacco plantation has dropped from 285,000 hectares to 140,000 hectares. When we were the world's second largest tobacco exporter, it's a pity that we are now a country that buys tobacco abroad. This institution was established in 2002, which proved to have no bearing on agriculture, agricultural industry, smoking and alcoholism. It has also been seen by figures that it has no benefit to prevent cigarette smuggling, to increase production, to ensure price balance. Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, with the wish that this alleged independent institution should be built to contribute to our country's agriculture, I respectfully salute the budget of this institution, where we see that we do not have the ability to determine national tobacco and alcohol policy, which is unable to take measures that will not condemn tobacco and tobacco to foreign tobacco companies.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit01spe0090par0833	Thank you, Mr. Nurlu. Speaking for Mr. Nurlu, the talks on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group have been completed. Now I'm gonna take a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0090par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. We'll continue the negotiations where we left off. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the first speaker is Mustafa War, Aydın MP. Here you go, Mr. War.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0091par0009	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group to discuss the 2017 budget of the Banking Organization and Control Agency. I salute our High Council. Before I begin my words, the sudden loss of our esteemed elder, Mr. Ismet Sezgin, a symbol of Turkish political life and our province of Aydın, has made us all deeply sad, especially in the name of his family, his loved ones, his loved ones, and all our fellow citizens, I say, "May God have mercy on you, and may your place be paradise." Precious lawmakers, despite global negativity over the world, the uncertainty of the FED interest policy, the process with the European Union, and the internal events in our country, the economic growth of strong Turkey remains stable. Although there is a global crisis and its effects continue, the positive progress in our growth course is of considerable importance to us. Yes, we're going through an extraordinary time today. Financial markets, of course, are affected by the process. But we have an economic management that reads progress correctly, acts proactively, keeps macro and microbalances in place. In the last 15 years, the growth of the economy in a stable way has increased the banking sector balance sheet, making it a healthier structure. Thanks to this healthy structure, our country has survived the global crisis and has continued to support both private and public banks. The banking sector, powered by stability and growth in Turkey's economy, continues to invest in our country's future. The strong and healthy structure of the banking industry is the main insurance policy in our economy. This insurance has worked well through the AK PARTY governments and will continue to work. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the main indicators pointing to the health of the banking sector are the size of the self-source. The Turkish banking sector has a self-source size of 293 billion TL as of the end of September 2016. Thanks to its powerful resources, banks have moved their resources to loans at a higher rate. The banking sector continues to provide financing for the SMEs, which are extremely important for the growth and employment structure of Turkey's economy. SME loans have increased by 19 points to 25 per cent since 2006. By the end of 2006, the 1.6 million SME clients were over 3 million customers, and the amount of credit used reached 405 billion euros. On the other hand, recent talks that the rise of currencies has had a negative impact on the balance sheet structures of companies that owe foreign money do not reflect the truth. In particular, individuals do not owe foreign money to the banking sector. In total, foreign money debt is 15 per cent of the COBI. Corporate companies also have experience protecting themselves against the risk of courtship and interest. Another important thing to address about the banking sector is the issue of participation banking. In recent years, we have made significant efforts to develop participation banking. As of today, accession banking at 5 per cent of the sector is intended to reach 15 per cent in the coming period. Precious lawmakers reassure international investors in the banking sector, as does the Turkish government of the EC PARTI, in all areas. Thanks to our government's fiscal discipline and its sound foundations in the economy, fluctuations in world economies will limit the impact of our country's banking sector. I would like to point out to those who are expecting a crisis: don't get excited; Turkey is no longer a country that has been brought to its knees in the 2001 crisis; there is a new and powerful Turkey that is acting with its nation. I wish our country the best and the best of luck in the year 2017. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0092par0018	Thank you, Mr. War. Mr. Paylan, you have a request according to Article 60.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0093par0020	Mr. President, yes, I'd like to speak as a group spokesman according to 60.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0092par0021	Here you go. I'll turn on your microphone for a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0093par0025	Thank you, Mr. President. Our İstanbul MP, Hüda Kaya has been taken into custody and taken into custody. We demand that your Presidential Court and the government conduct the necessary investigation and immediately inform our Parliament of the grounds for the detention of our Istanbul MP, Hüda Kaya. We have 10 MPs, including our co-chairs, our group's vice president, who, you know, were taken hostage and we see this political genocide operation continue in this framework. We don't think the House has taken the necessary stance on these political operations as a group. The MPs of our MPs have not dropped their parliamentary powers; they have only been removed by order of parliament, by the court, and our MPs and their MPs continue. In this framework, I demand that the necessary attitude be taken by the Presidential Court, and we demand that the government make the necessary notification immediately.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0092par0027	Thank you, Mr. Paylan. I just learned from you that Mr. Hüda Kaya had been taken into custody. He's a member of my constituency. He and I have been on the plane together from time to time, having conversations. I hope he takes his place in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as soon as possible. Also, in the frame you stated, I'll call Mr. Attorney General, ask him for information, I'll share it with you, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0094par0030	Mr. President, but it's urgent. Maybe you should take a break.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0092par0031	Now, Mr. Paylan, we're conducting budget negotiations, and there's no way we can take a break.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0094par0032	Mr. President, an MP has been taken into custody. What do you need to do for a break?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0095par0033	We're MPs, too.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0092par0034	Mr. Paylan, of course... but, as it may be, we have three MPs who are not on watch, the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This request, if you see it urgently, you can make it from those friends and from Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0094par0035	Mr. President, don't you see it's urgent?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0092par0036	When I take a break...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0094par0037	If a CHP MP was touched, wouldn't that be an emergency? What if an AKP MP was touched, a MP was touched? In that sense, that means...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0092par0038	Mr. Paylan, look...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0096par0039	That's the job of the judge.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0097par0040	Yeah, even when the bombs were being dropped, the Clave worked.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0098par0041	The Clave worked in the coup. The congressman could die.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0099par0042	Mr. Paylan, dear friends, I am the one who believes that all lawmakers are in the Great National Assembly of Turkey. It's not my political opinion, it's my idea of law. The MPs, according to my understanding, can never be arrested, but there's a process of trial going on, there's an investigation going on. Of course, we don't know what happens at the end of this process. I'd like everything to work out under the law. The role of the Turkish Parliament's MPs is to manage the General Assembly, which is very clear in the Civil Code. In this regard, of course, the detention of an MP is an extremely important event. I won't let this go lightly, I'll never be able to underestimate it, but I'm asking you, please, you can make this request from our other three Speakers of Parliament or the President of the House. But in the first place, I'll call Mr. Attorney General, ask him for information and share it with you, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0100par0044	Mr. President, I have a brief request.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0099par0045	Mr. Master, let's continue the negotiations, sir. I'll give it to you if you want it.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0100par0047	Please, please...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0099par0048	Okay, here you go. Your time is one minute.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0100par0051	Thank you. I'm not getting into that argument. Our friend, who has just been mentioned by the Justice and Development Party Group, has also made a policy here through the 2001 crisis over the 2001 crisis, and I want to say that these are very wrong and ugly. In the end, the economy of Turkey had that problem in 2001, but in 2002 the government of that day handed over to the Justice and Development Party governments that were much stronger than today, in 2002. I explained it over and over again around here, and no one could bring an argument against him. The economy that was handed over in 2002 was much stronger than today's economy, much more resistant to shocks. Let's put that on the record, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0101par0054	Thank you, Mr. Master. 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the second speaker is Edirne MP Rafet Sezen. Here you go, Mr. Sezen.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0102par0104	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the budget of the Capital Market Board in 2017. I hereby salute our beloved nation and the High Council. The new Capital Market Law was adopted by the end of 2012, under the aim of responding to developments in the global financial system over the past decade, creating a high-standard legal infrastructure and implementing our country's 2023 vision. This is the most important move in capital markets in recent years. The new law has lifted all existing capital market regulations and has imposed secondary regulations in accordance with the law. In this scope, 75 new regulations have created a very large amount of legal infrastructure for the capital market in line with EU criteria. With this arrangement, we have not only adapted to the EU, but also to all of our businessmen, do not be afraid, come, if you are not satisfied, you can leave. In order to finance the SME, we established the Market of Developmental Enterprises. Members of parliament, as of today, 511 companies are in the SEC record and 410 have been processed in the stock market. The market value of our stock market companies is around $600 billion, the portfolio value of investment funds is $45 billion, and the share of real estate capital is $24 billion. The total size of the portfolio run by portfolio management companies has exceeded 110 billion Turkish liras. The number of participants in the individual pension system exceeds 6.5 million, and the funding is close to 60 billion Turkish liras. We are over 10 million investors investing in all products such as stocks, bonds, investment funds, individual pension funds. When we look at the exports of domestic and foreign debt and other capital markets, we see that exports amounted to $253.2 billion in 2015 by the SPK, which exceeded 300 billion Turkish dollars in the first ten months of 2016. Five years ago, when there were no private sector bonds in our market, we now opened the way for our companies to provide more than 300 billion euros a year in interest reductions and regulations. Members of parliament will have more jobs for our capital markets in order to ensure high economic growth in the coming period. With the development of capital markets, our companies' financing opportunities and options will increase. In our capital markets, important reforms have been made in the portfolio management sector, the media sector, the stock markets and the bond markets. In addition, studies on the development of capital markets, the incentive of our private sector for domestic and long-term debt and the establishment of a guaranteed money market so that banks can manage the risk of interest healthier have been implemented on 14 October 2016. Infrastructure has been completed, including real estate partnership, real estate certificate, real estate investment fund, venture capital fund and partnerships, and a number of successful financial institutions have been implemented abroad. Congressmans, we're taking steps to make Istanbul a global financial center. On October 15, 2016, the foundations of the BDK and the SEC buildings were laid. The budget revenues of the Capital Market Board were estimated at $127m,592000 for 2017. The board's budget for expenditure in 2017 is still around 127m euros, and there is no grant from the general budget to the SPK. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, all subcontracted terrorist organizations, in particular, who have failed to get what they wanted from the December 17-25th and July 15th coup attempt, are playing their final leverage on our economy. It is true that recently foreign currency rates have increased over the world's markets, but our economy will come out with minimal damage as a result of structural reforms -- since the day we came to power. As I end my remarks with these thoughts, I first wish our budget well, and thanks to our friends, the Plan and Budget Commission member who led the 2017 budget bill to the General Board, and to all our ministers, especially our Prime Minister and Finance Minister, and to all the employees who have done the work.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0103par0113	Thank you, Mr. Sezen.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0104par0114	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0103par0115	Mr. Paylan...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0104par0116	I want words according to 60.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0103par0117	Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0104par0120	Mr. President, thank you. I told you that our Istanbul MP, Hüda Kaya, has been taken into custody, and you didn't even consider it an excuse to take a break, which is unfortunate, Mr. President. A member of this House is being detained, and we're demanding information about this from your Presidential Court, and you're saying I can't take a break from it. I repeat my request, please pause and please find out why our MP has been detained, what he's been treated for, because the treatment of one of the 550 MPs today, if this is normalized, it could happen to any of us tomorrow; to us today, to you tomorrow. I didn't see Mr. Secretary hugging his phone either, Mr. President. You know, we're asking a minister to make a phone call, call the Minister of Justice and say, "What's going on?" I've been watching him for five minutes. We demand immediate information from both you and the government. Please take a break and we'll give you the information. Mr. President, can I give you an answer?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0105par0126	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. I'll turn on your microphone. My dear President, thank you very much. I haven't responded to any of that kind of talks since this morning so that budget talks can continue within its hierarchy. But I want everyone to know that I'm not sitting down. I wrote the message to our Minister of Justice immediately, telling him that our Hüda Kaya MP was arrested, that he should write me a note about it immediately, that I would make a statement about it, and you missed it. Two more of our deputies like you, even one of them, said: "The minister is playing on the phone. The minister is not playing on the phone, the minister's ear is listening, but the minister's hand is doing another transaction at the same time. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) I wrote the questions on the phone right away about the questions of our other MPs, and the answers came to me, but I'll give them to you when I have the right to answer. I'll inform the Council as soon as we have information on this matter. I pay my respects. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0106par0132	Mr. President, I'd like to speak of my position according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0105par0133	Mr. Ironel, please, sir, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0106par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me make it clear that Mr. Secretary's information in the first place needs to be corrected. You're right, detention. Because Hüda Kaya hasn't been arrested, there's no such app right now. He was taken into custody from the Hüda Kaya house and taken to the Çağan Courthouse, but still hasn't reached the Çağan Courthouse. I wanted to talk to the attorney general myself, get some information on the situation, but no one's been on our phones since. The lawyers are already waiting at the courthouse, but I'm saying that this illegal procedure has to stop right now. We're discussing a congressman, yes, through the removal of judicial and immunity, but even if the parliamentary immunity of lawmakers is lifted, let's rephrase here the fact that the MPs are still in law enforcement. To make a statement...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0107par0140	Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0106par0141	With this kind of practice, we never accept the immediate detention of lawmakers. Once again, we condemn such practices. We repeat once again that Hüda Haným's detention process should be terminated and released immediately. He's still not in touch with his lawyers. Along with these practices, we are once again condemning the coup attempt on the HDP Group today. On November 4th, with a coup, our co-chairs, group vice presidents and deputies were taken into custody and arrested by the coup system. They're trying to do it the same way to our other MPs today. Today we condemn the understanding of those who imposed this practice on other lawmakers in Huda Kaya and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I repeat, this is the place of the lawmakers who continue their legislature by the will of the people. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0108par0146	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Members of parliament, according to the Constitution, MPs cannot be detained or arrested; this is a clear decree of the Constitution. My understanding of the law is within that framework. The seat of MPs is Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Any investigation may be carried out regarding the cases that have been removed from immunity, of course any trial can be made; there is no obstacle to that, but I have spoken to you of the Constitution's verdict. Other than that, there's a process going on. This runs within the knowledge of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the community, which has been widely discussed. As the Presidential Court, commenting on the judicial proceedings is also in violation of the Constitution's Article 138. Mr. Secretary says he's contacted the Minister of Justice, he'll share his information with the General Assembly. Let me rephrase: The duties of the deputy speakers of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are stated in Article 15 of the Civil Code. It's only the legislators of the Parliament who are obliged to run the General Assembly. Other than that, its task is to observe the report magazine, which is to check whether the report on the content of the talks here is correct. There is no other duty but to Him. However, I take Mr. Paylan's request as a request for human, civilized solidarity. When I take my first break, I'll call Mr. Attorney General. Thank you. 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Erzincan MP Sebahattin Karakelle. Here you go, Mr. Karakelle.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0109par0202	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the budget of our Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry in 2017, and I salute your grand delegation. For this country, I ask God's mercy and good health for our veterans who walked to Hakk on July 15th to fight terror and protect our country and this Veteran Assembly with their lives. In our time of power, historians will surely write about the heroes who made centuries of dreams come true and put them into 14 years by writing epics and offered them to our nation's service. I know a debt of gratitude to our party's founder, our legendary leader, our President Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our Prime Minister Mr. Buli Yıldırım, our Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications Mr. Ahmet Arslan, and to our ministers and staff who have served so far. Our 14-year-old power has allowed both the way forward and the ability to implement sustainable development in every part of our country. The primary reference for development in the 21st century is transportation and communication. Because these two sectors are the infrastructure of all other sectors. The long fine ways of Veysel, who is in love, so that lives may not be divided, and longings may be shortened, and wheels may return to civilization, have been replaced today by the ways of the world's standards. As for the mountains, like the mountains, they are pierced, and the roads are paved with viaducts and tunnels. On the highways, not only the east west axis, but also the north-south-axis corridors. The Ovit Tunnel, the dream of the paradise place Abdulhamid Khan, is about to end. The tunneliflower, Marmaray, now serves our people. When it's completed, we're still building the third largest airport in the world. The canal will surely take place in Istanbul. On December 20th, we hope to open the Eurasia Tunnel. In the words of our Prime Minister, Sultan Mehmet Khan the Conqueror has carried the ships off land, and his descendants will be able to carry them under the sea, I hope. The Ottomangazi Bridge, which reduces the two-hour Gulf crossing in the Sea of Marmara to six minutes, has been opened to our nation's service. Again, the 1915 Çanakkale Bridge is among our 2023 targets as the world's largest suspension bridge. With our 80 provinces, Erzincan, my constituency, also received his share of investments. The Reddağ Tunnel, which links our province to the surrounding provinces, continues to plan the completed work of the project, and Mount Pöske, otherwise known as Ahmadiye tunnels. Besides, Erzurum-Bayburt's Collapsion Tunnel is six and a half kilometers away, and they're still working. Mr. President, in our time of power, there was a real revolution in land, air, sea and railways, integrated into each other. Current lines have been modernized in the State Railways. In addition to our current high-speed train lines, the work of Ankara-Afyon, İzmir and Ankara, Sivas, Erzincan, Erzurum, Kars is also under way. We built our country from head to toe with the networks of railroads. Again, planning of the Erzincan-Trabzon railway tunnel Zigana Mountain Tunnel continues. The airline will be the way of the people. We left with the slogan and contributed to the transportation and development of the region with airports all over Turkey. Our country has also traveled a great distance in space work. We successfully launched our satellite into space earlier this week. Good luck. That's probably the best expression of where we came from in transport. With these thoughts and feelings, I call upon my Lord to bless our nation and our country for the good of our budget in 2017, and I salute your great delegation.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0110par0213	Thank you, Mr. Karakelle. Now for Erzurum MP Mustafa Ilıcalı. Here you go, Mr. Ilıcan.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0111par0217	Dear President, dear MPs, I have received a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of our Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry in 2017, and I salute you all. As a delivery teacher for thirty-five years -- here for 14 years -- I'm a teacher, and I say with my identity, it's the hardest thing I can do to fit the work the Ministry of Transport has done in five minutes, but I'd like to share some important information with you in these five minutes. Once we look at this slide right here, our country has a very important position on Europe, Asia, Africa. Why am I showing you this position? We're in the middle of a geography with a population of 1.5 billion, $35 trillion in domestic revenues, $7 trillion in trade volumes, and we're on important corridors between the west and east. The services of our Ministry of Transport will give us a huge advantage here, strengthen our economy. In each university, the driving force of economies is called transport. In that sense, I know that Marmaray, here, here, from Beijing to London, the railway, the Kars-Tiflis line, the works of our government, are very important, I see. I believe, and I say to our late Prime Minister, our president, the minister of legend -- today I thank our Prime Minister, our Minister of Transport, today's Minister and his team. In the university, a large number will be held at meetings, before I become a member of the parliament; the standard of the roads will be increased, the share of the airway will be equal. Where is the share of the transport? He made a transport plan in 1990, and he said, "Let the share of the land road be equal to the sea road and the airway."
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0112par0221	Train tracks, railroad tracks!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0111par0222	But we also found that there is a need for political stability here, a need for long-term governments. Today, in 2005 -- which I was in -- our Transport Ministry did a master plan study. And it's good to see that the work is going on. We've got some major developments on the railroad road, some improvements on the airway. If we want to talk about numbers and not words...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0112par0224	Train tracks, railroad tracks!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0111par0225	Here is an investment of $304 billion from 2002 to 2016. These are real numbers, there's no need for politics here. Again, I'm trying to hand in my college ID. The land route's up to 198 grand. I'm close to the two first-degree accidents I lost in which these divided roads would be forgiving if those roads were divided, and today I would have with me my parents, my brother-in-law, and my sister-in-law. Yeah, we're doing it by seeing it, knowingly, not as politics.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0113par0227	The accidents didn't go away.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0111par0228	You're looking at the airline's share, you're looking at the railroad's share, it's increased. God bless you. It can be said. My friend here will speak on land, but I'd like to share the following number: He's almost 25,000 in 2003 from 6,101. This is a great success; this is a success story. Here, I, CHP, would like to say to our high-value representatives in the opposition, these are real numbers, but if there are arguments on this, let's discuss it, let's steer it better, let's contribute more. But this Marmaray is unnecessary, Eurasia is unnecessary, these have been wronged here. If we say so, then scientifically we will oppose it, and politically it will not be very elegant. Here, look, look at the cost of accidents, if we take 1.5 per cent of the GDP, there's something worth $29 billion. We're losing it. The increase in divided roads, the increase in the airway, the increase in the railway, is a great advantage. Again, the loss of life lost to 100 million car-kilometers fell from 5,72, to 2.17 in 2014. When we look at the railways, we look at the railway lines built in the time of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and there are 3,700 kilometers of railways built, and we have slept until 2002. I'm telling you today, I urge you to listen carefully. From 2004 to 2015, the railway was built 150km a year. What does that mean? Now, there's a lot to say here, but my last word is to you, Minister. Erzurum prepared a Ray System Project in my constituency, and Mr. Minister said to support the Ministry of Transport of the Sender. Our Metropolitan Municipality sent it. Please, let's do this nine and a half kilometers. There's an Energy Report I'm presenting to our government right now. Air pollution is pushing border values. There's got to be traffic here and transportation here, electric, a big advantage on the tram. I think our minister, our government, will support this tram project of ours. In the north you have done Ovit. God bless you, we have to do the Tekman-Palandöken Tunnel, which is empty in the south. We have to do the Cherry Tunnel. Let's do these. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The high-speed train, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0114par0238	You took the whole budget to Erzurum. And thou tookst all the money unto Erzurum, and didn't leave anything in Erzincan, and in the silver house.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0111par0239	At the opening of the last Ankara Station, the high-speed train will arrive at Erzurum. Let's get this started and get it out of Erzurum right away. Dear Minister, our esteemed MPs, there's so much to say, I wish the budget to be blessed. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I expected the Republican People's Party and the other opposition to applaud. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] Today's promotional days were the days of Erzurum Publicity.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0115par0245	Your Honor, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0116par0246	The number of employees on the railways has dropped from 66,000 to 22,000. We went with the opposition, so I thank all the opposition, the CHP and the MP for coming to our promotional days. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit02spe0117par0250	Your Honor, thank you. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0117par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0118par0005	Mr. President... President, I have a statement to make.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0117par0007	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. I promise, Mr. Ironel. Mr. President, thank you. In particular, I had just stumbled upon the detention of our Hüda Kaya MP, and I said arrest, but the legal term was detention. Of course, it is specifically called to testify by court order when the judicial process is being carried out -- that is, everyone is equal to the judiciary -- that is, of course, by law enforcement. After going to the deposition, our Hüda Kaya MP has been released. I received this information from the Justice Department, so I wanted to inform the High Council. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Demirel, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0119par0017	Thank you, Mr. President. Immediately after the break, we met with Ms. Hüda. Ms. Hüda sends her regards to all. Yes, it's unfair and illegal. We've already stated how illegal it is for an MP to be detained and arrested. But I actually asked you for a say before, you took a break, I couldn't tell you. We met with Ms. Hüda ourselves and found out that she had been released. But I want to thank you -- in your statement in accordance with our request in the first entry -- you have expressed your opinion as an appropriate statement to the Constitution -- for expressing that this situation is unacceptable, and thank you for your interest. You have expressed that entirely by basing it on the Constitution and on the law. That's exactly what we're trying to say. In no country... right now only Palestinian lawmakers and MPs in Israel are under arrest in Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0120par0021	Here you go, finish what you said.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0119par0022	HDP, our third-largest legislator and third-largest party, has been detained on November 4th with a coup, the co-chairs of Peoples' Democratic Party, the group's deputy and the MPs, and our most important response to those who have expressed it within the framework of the law must be an answer to the release of Huda Hanim today. Yes, again, in the same way, our deputies and co-chairs need to be released very quickly today. They are now held hostage because it is against the law, and the decision to take them by force, or to take them by force, is never under arrest. He needs to be released after the deposition. Every member of parliament must continue its activities within the scope of legislative activities. They're MPs now, and I'm saying they need to be released immediately, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0120par0024	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. The matter has become clear. We continue our negotiations from where we left off. 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account Fifth speaker for the Justice and Development Party Group, Ağrı MP Cesim Gökçe. Here you go, Mr. Gökçe.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0121par0076	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget for the Ministry of Transport Highways General Directorate in the Central Management Budget Bill of 2017. On this occasion, I salute you all. Transport is at the top of the basic factor that determines the level of our country's development and development. Landways, which are the country's most important infrastructure, have made great progress in the development of the country, economic, social, cultural life. As far as our country's geographical position is concerned, it has a high level of ground infrastructure in quality and capacity. With the AK PARTY power, ground roads have been mobilised. Roads divided, lives saved, road transport recorded, unfinished roads, unfinished tunnels finished in our time of power. The Black Sea Highway, the endless, endless Bolu Tunnel, 12 governments, 16 ministers have aged, and these roads and tunnels have been given the power of the AK PARTI. Today we see significant distances in divided roadwork. We see that the length of the divided road reaches from 6,101 km to 25.034 kilometers, which is an enormous number. The district of Ağrı, my constituency, had a total of 10km of divided roads in 2003, while as of today it reached 344km, up 20 times. In other words, there has been an increase of 2.050 percent, which is a record. With divided road studies, the average speed on the road has increased from 40 kilometers to 50 miles [50 km]. Investments from divided roads, fuel and labour power, which exceed 16.6 billion euros per year, return very quickly. In divided ways, labor force savings, fuel savings, 3.26 million tons of less carbon dioxide gas released per year. Another of the main gains of our roads, which cannot be measured by money, is the decline in fatal traffic accidents. A 62% reduction in fatal traffic accidents has occurred. Another important thing for traffic safety and comfortable travel is road improvements. In 2003, the amount of BSK travel was increased from 6,582 kilometers to 20,517 kilometers, with an average of 1,500km [500 km] of heated coating asphalt. Dear MPs, Osman Gazi Bridge, the fourth largest bridge in the world, 2.682 meters long, was launched on June 30, 2016. When the project is completed in December 2018, the transport time between Istanbul and Izmir will descend from nine hours to three hours, from Istanbul to one-and-a-half hours. Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, the smiling face of our future, has united both sides of the Bosphorus once again. The Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, the largest platform bridge in the world, connected the 405km - long North Marmara Highway on August 26, 2016. The Eurasia Tube Tunnel, the deepest tunnel in the world, is located on December 20th, as well as the Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, which united the Bosphorus over the sea for the third time. The construction of tunnels, bridges and viaducts that have been integrated into our land route investments over the past 14 years has also been remarkable. The total length of the tunnel, which was 50km prior to 2003, reached 316km long as of today. Our number of tunnels has increased from 83 to 295. As part of the construction of bridges, a total length of 311km of bridges and viaducts before 2003, has been completed in the last 14 years, while 2,335 bridges in length have been completed. Turkey is a country with historical and future responsibilities in its region and the world. Investments in the roads will continue to be a strong country that sets world standards in the Road Sector. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish you all the best in the 2017 budget, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0122par0087	Thank you, Mr. Gökçe. The sixth-place speaker of the Justice and Development Party Group, Yusuf Selahattin Beyribey, Kars MP. Here you go, Mr. Beyribey.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0123par0091	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of I.T. and Communications. On behalf of my people and group, I salute you all on behalf of our budget in 2017, I wish our budget talks would be a blessing for our country and our nation. The Information Technologies and Communication Agency also plays a leverage role in its development as well as in the development of other sectors. Today, we find that information and communication technology are being used intensively in every field from education to health, banking to energy, agriculture and tourism. As a result of technological developments, change in the telecommunications sector and transformation continue without slowing down. We're doing everything we can to get the electronic communications infrastructure to our people who live in every corner of our country, up to the most remote villages and deserts. In this framework, we see a very rapid change and development in our country's electronic communications field. In 2015, the growth of the sector and 69.4 billion Turkish liras will now be 83.1 billion Turkish liras this year. The number of subscriptions will reach 75 million by the end of this year. In 2003, the number of broadband subscribers at 20,000 levels reached 59 million today. 75% of the population has been reached. As we've all seen closely, a very successful 4.5G tender has been made, at the end of the 4.5G bid at a minimum price of 2.13 billion euros, brought in 4 billion euros, including VAT. As of April 1st, the four-and-a-half-g (G) was introduced to the ministry, while in our country, citizens received a cheaper, better quality service. Dear lawmakers, the vast influence of information technologies and the communication sector in our society and the use of more and more technology by our citizens have implemented some arrangements for the protection of our consumers. In this context, Information Technologies and Communications Agency immediately carried out the following tasks of its most important duties to protect the rights of our consumers. Decisions have been made regarding the open lines of service that our citizens cannot pay for without their knowledge, the Internet records of the mobile phones they bring with them from abroad, as well as the right of the consumer to change the operator without changing the number they have for them, which I think is a very important right. In particular, with the development of the communications sector in recent years, of course, this IT sector has created side effects for itself, and there are areas that can be used in this IT sector with ulterior motives. We see it today, we see it in developed countries, we see it in the future. And in that sense, I feel it's necessary to do some serious work on cyber security. Especially countries with low cyber-security skills and cyber-defensive abilities are at a disadvantage. Regarding this, the United States of America recently interfered with our internal affairs with the cyber attack. Events like this. Again, there's no need for weapons anymore during the war; if you cut the power through cyber-site, if you cut the water, that country will be finished at that moment and the whole thing will be lost. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] For him, I think we need a national cyber-security network. In this case, I think our cyber-security infrastructure should be created. I wish our budget to our country, to our nation, and I salute all my friends.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0124par0101	Thank you, Mr. Beyribey.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0125par0102	Mr. President, can I have a word with you for a minute? I'm in the system, you haven't seen me.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0124par0103	You'll have to ask in the QA section.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0125par0104	I don't ask questions, I don't ask questions. I don't want an opinion, I want a 60.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0124par0105	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0125par0108	Mr. Minister Hüda has stated that Ms. Hüda has been released. Yeah, he was released, but he made it sound like a normal routine. For one thing, this practice is normal, and it's not an app that we would consider ordinary, but for once, I'd like to say that we don't think it's true. Secondly, Ayşe Nur was subjected to half an hour of practice at Bahçapılı Germany, which we had stated was not correct. Those who cause apocalypse for him don't make a sound on these platforms today. So you have to be a member of the ruling party to be subjected to an application? If there's injustice, lawlessness, I think that everyone in this Parliament should take a pledge and express it, that a woman who fought for years in the battle of the Hüda Kaya headscarf was tried for life with her daughters. This government has been fighting for the headdress for years over this lawlessness... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...in fact, he came to power. But I'd like to say once again that the mentality that put him in prison that day, the mindset that puts him on trial for life, and the mentality that he has today, is similar to that of Huda Kaya.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0126par0112	Thank you. 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account Now, it's time for the speech of the Çanırı MP Huseyin Filiz. Here you go, Mr. Flitz.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0127par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear fellow lawmakers, I would like to express my opinion on the budgets of the Transport Ministry and the Ministry of Agriculture of the 2017 Central Management Budget Bill. I salute the House of People. There have been 26 airports since 2003. These 55 airports are added to a third airport, an airport in the world to sit at number one, an airport that will employ at least 100,000 people. Turkey, of course, has become a country that manages its economy well through these mega projects. My fellow lawmakers, in our time of power, there was almost no one left who didn't get on the plane. There are almost no countries left to go to when we rule. Yeah, we made the airway public. Of course, in the meantime, I'll give you a number about not just the airline, but the land route. Until fifteen years ago, a divided road network of 7,000 kilometers increased to 25,000 kilometers, adding 18,000 kilometres. Our Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım always says: "We have divided the roads, we have not divided the country. We divided the paths, joined the hearts. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear fellow lawmakers, of course 125 million dollars is the source our Ministry of Agriculture has given to our 309 projects through our regional development co-ordinatorship, with IPARD projects, my primary constituency region. That's 66 million out of 125 million. Of course, one of our ministry's most important moves is that there are nearly 400,000 annual calf deaths in Turkey, close to 400,000. We'll explain why this is happening in a long time. We can't fit this in five minutes. We have to import 500,000 animals to make up for these 400,000 calves. So 500,000 pregnant heifers have to come from the outside. About that, our Ministry has made a plan. Turkey divided it into four basin-based growers, four of them. So from now on, to raise any animal he wants, technical advisors, veterinarians, and agricultural engineers from our Ministry, wherever he makes money, he'll know what to do in the region. My dear friends, in 30 counties, including Çankırı, which is part of the breeding district, from these four regions, we give 30% to the pregnant cow from the outside, 30 percent to the animal from the outside. Because we're multiplying animal assets. We're giving it to production. So there's no support for words, paper. We're supporting the calf that this animal gave birth to -- the brusella vaccine, the smack shot -- to a calf that filled four months with all the vaccines.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0128par0170	Most of the calves are dying.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0127par0171	The 2nd district is a breeding ground. The support of 33 provinces, which are in line with the conditions, is this: a donation to 50 percent of at least 500 cattle, a donation to 50 percent of the stable he has made, and a donation to 50 percent of the equipment he has received. The third district is a breeding ram, including Ramadan Can (or Ramadan Can) in the electoral district, and a 50 per cent grant to the building in the area of goat breeding, 50 per cent to the animal, 50 per cent to the livestock, agricultural equipment and equipment.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0128par0174	No Niğde, Niğde. Don't tell me too much, Niğdelans will be ruined.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0127par0175	The fourth area, including the opium area, is 50% support for the animal, 50% support for the barn, 50% support for the equipment.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0128par0176	They forgot about Niğde.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0127par0177	And, of course, my dear brothers and sisters, I heard from the opposition that the milk was under 1,15. I'm billing here. Milk's $1.50. Here's the receipt. I can give it to opposition group vice presidents.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0129par0178	The decontamination... the decontamination...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0127par0179	The meat, thanks to the work of our Ministry of Agriculture -- the bill for the caricature here -- dropped to $23, for 23 TL.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0129par0182	And get me the receipt for the changeable dollars, the deposit for the cash.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0127par0183	But, look, if you drop the karkas too much, the peasant will be out of the field.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0130par0184	There's no such thing. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0127par0185	The price shouldn't go down too much. Where's the meat that consumers eat for 40 to 50 liras? Where do you get these numbers?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0131par0186	Tell me, how much meat does the Meat Fish sell for?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0132par0187	How much is the bait, Mr. Orator, bait, bait? Tell me about the straw, how much the bait is.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0133par0188	How much does meat weigh, weight of meat? Do you ever go to town, Congressman? You ever go to town?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0134par0189	You'll come working on the field. Come to your class with work.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0135par0190	Thank you, Mr. Flitz.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0134par0191	Look, believe me, I'll ruin it.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0135par0193	Mr. Flitz, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0134par0194	I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0136par0196	Do you ever go to town, town?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0137par0197	It's made to be broken, there's nothing wrong with Niğde.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0138par0198	Now it's time for Bayburt MP Sahab Kavioğlu. Here you go, Mr. Kavacioglu.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0139par0201	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group on the 2017 budget of our esteemed MPs, the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. First of all, I salute the Veteran Assembly. In Turkey, which has a developing economy, foreign trade data is the most important element of the current deficit that has been going on for years. The negative impact of foreign trade data on our country has much to do with the external supply of energy sources such as oil, natural gas. As it is known throughout the world, the price of raw oil, which had a significant share in our energy imports in 2014, has been reduced from $110 to $30 in this process, as of today at $50. In 2013, the total share of energy imports was 22 per cent in total imports, while in September 2016 it dropped to 13 per cent.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0140par0203	Come to Bayburt.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0139par0204	In our country, energy imports have to be reduced in some way by increasing the importance given to alternative sources. The power of renewable energy sources in 2002 was 12,200 megawatts, while 33,350 megawatts were released in September 2016. Other than renewable energy sources, another way to reduce import dependency is nuclear energy. Today, 12 percent of electricity production in the world is provided from nuclear energy. As of 2016, there are 446 nuclear plants in 31 countries and 66 newly built nuclear plants in 16 countries. Let us not forget that 77% of France provides nuclear energy for the production of electricity, such as 38 per cent of Belgium. Again, the opposition, which was opposed when our government said it was a nuclear power plant, probably followed the referendum on this issue in Switzerland. The men have already decided to reject the closure of these plants in 2029. Congressmans, our country is growing, it's growing, it's going to do all kinds of work to grow and grow, and we're going to increase the competitiveness of this country. We're doing our country's idea of building a half-century nuclear power plant with nuclear power plants built in Akkuyu and Sinop. For this reason, we expect our country's economy to rethink its views on nuclear energy with common sense, as well as the reduction of its import dependency and a solution to the risks stemming from these imported products. Dear MPs, as you know, Turkey has hosted the 23rd World Energy Congress. Our country has become a trusted partner in energy projects so far. We are particularly important partners in meeting world markets with resources in the Middle East and Eurasia. Instead of Turkey's paradigm for peace, we think that it would be a driving force to establish regional alliances at the point of energy production, distribution and sharing, rather than trying to dominate the energy sources associated with blood, tears and war. The geography we're in, we're in the area where 60 percent of the world's energy sources are located, and maybe that's why the world's unrest is the basis. So, we're not trying to be the address of peace, stability in this region, but we're trying to act on it. So we said we'd share in peace. But once again, Turkey, which they tried to make look like a wounded economy in the ring by the coup attempt on the part of us military, journalists and lawmakers, under the guise of traitors under the guise of terrorists, through the market games they played, has shown their fists for peace in the ring. Everyone should know that the Turkish nation's bosom is soft, its heart is wide, but it will never forgive the traitors. I wish you the best of the 2017 budget, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0141par0212	Thank you, Mr. Kavacioglu. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Diyarbakır MP Mehmet Galip Ensarioğlu. Here you are, Mr. Ensarioğlu.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0142par0215	Mr. President, esteemed MPs, I have taken a pledge on the Energy Ministry's 2017 budget, and I salute everyone. During our 14-year administrations, great breakthroughs were made and significant economic growths were witnessed. Our economy has survived both when the world is in an economic crisis and when there are treasonous attempts on the 15th of July. Energy has an important role at the root of the sustainable development of the economy. As a result of economic development and increasing prosperity, there is a rapid increase in demand in all areas of the energy sector. From this point of view, our country is ranked second in the world after China in terms of increasing energy demand. This increase is expected to continue uninterrupted in the coming years. It is important to provide energy supply security by meeting this increasing demand for energy, as well as to offer cheap energy to our citizens. Some basic strategies and goals have been set by our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources to produce and consume energy with quality, sustainable, cheap, and continuous, and environmental harmony. Some of these strategies are to prioritize resource diversity, increase the share of renewable energy sources in energy supply, increase energy efficiency, provide full operations for free market conditions and improve investment environments, ensure resource diversity in oil and natural gas fields and reduce the risks caused by imports, and enable our natural resources to increase the country's economy's contribution, enable our geopolitic position to make our country an energy base and terminal in terms of regional co-operation processes in energy and in terms of energy and natural resources, to ensure environmentally efficient operating activities in the field of energy and natural resources, to ensure costs, and to ensure that the amount of energy is accessible to consumers and consumers. With the determination of these strategies being made into a state policy and no compromises in implementing it, the breakthrough, described as the silent revolution in energy by our Minister, has increased our energy-based power 2.5 times during our administrations, raising the number of power generation plants of 298 to 2.097. Our electrical power transmission line, 44,544 kilometers, has increased to 58,100 kilometers with investments, and our distribution line has exceeded 1 million,100,000 kilometers from 812,399 kilometers. Natural gas that can only be used in several cities has been delivered to 78 cities. We've come to a position that can direct international energy projects, such as TANAP and Turkachim. Important steps have been taken to use nuclear energy in the production of electricity. A significant 10% discount on pre-winter natural gas has been reduced to our citizen and industrialist's bills. Our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources has weighted energy production from local and renewable sources and has led to significant progress in this area. In the effort to increase the share of renewable energy sources in energy supply, the solar and wind energy boards have given a huge boost. New models are being activated in order for this development to move forward. With an important model being activated, the Renewable Energy Source Area (YEKA), we will benefit more effectively from our sun and wind. In addition to RD studies, technological progress will be made in this area. In addition, local coal must be evaluated in order to reduce the pressure of energy on the current. This includes important work from our Ministry. Our linite reserves, which were not even at 8 billion tons before the EC PARTI administrations, have been doubled to 16 billion tons, along with intelligent studies. As we search and find these resources, these resources need to be brought into the economy. There's no point in turning to imported resources when we have our own source. I have no doubt that the new models that have been activated to bring these national resources into the economy will also bring action to the energy sector. Along with this model, not only will our local resources be used, but our citizens will also be allowed to access cheap energy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With these applications, I believe new silent revolutions will happen in the field of energy. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0143par0227	Thank you, Mr. Ensarioğlu. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the 10th speaker is Yukki Aygün. Here you go, Mr. Ayday.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0144par0231	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my EC PARTY Group for the energy market regulatory budget of 2017. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, the Energy Market Editing Agency has organised and supervised electricity, natural gas, oil and LPG markets for 15 years from its establishment in 2001. In this direction, the removal of obstacles to the creation of a transparent, fair and competitive market structure in markets with the responsibility of regulation, monitoring and auditing is one of the institution's main priorities for consumers to benefit from adequate, continuous and quality goods and services. From the day it was founded, the EPDK has spent an intensive shift on the development of markets under its responsibility to pave the way for the development of energy markets. In this context, today, the oil markets, given by the EPDK, have a total of 13,224, 2.287 in electricity markets, 307 in natural gas markets, and a total of 26,845 licenses in the LPG market. The most important issue in our electricity sector for supply security and the future of the system is the fact that production investments are being achieved, and in the last decade around 34,000 megawatts have been included in the new capacity-based power system, with projects licensed by the EPDK. In this capacity increase, the share of renewable energy sources such as hydroelectricity, wind, geothermal, sun is a satisfactory development. As part of EPDK licensing activities, the gas market has so far given a total of 307 licenses, including 68 decent distribution licenses. Work on natural gas markets highlights activities for natural gas distribution in cities. At this point, the tenders allowed natural gas use in 76 provinces. The tenders will be completed in December 2016 as of July 2016. Also, distribution zone expansion is under way by the EPDK. As part of the natural gas market, improvements have been made regarding the operation of the transmission network. Following the transfer of the Silivri Natural Gas Storage Facility, owned by the Anonym Partnership of Turkey, the basic use and basis of Turkey's first floating LNG terminal, the liquefied gas terminal, on 1 December 2016, has been implemented in September, following the transfer of its use and fundamental revisions. In addition, the draft of the Natural Gas Market Organised Sales Market was drafted by the EPDK, which ensured the establishment of the Organizational Total Sales Market, which was envisioned by the EPDK. As part of the Oil Market Act, it is intended to prevent the sale of illegal or unstandard goods by determining whether the fuel in circulation with national marker applications has been legally introduced into the market. However, the oil market and the LPG market are constantly supervised by the EPDK, the distributor's licenses to prevent illegal oil and LPG sales through the station automation system. In this way, the country's economy was blocked by illegal fuels, allowing the citizens to use high-quality fuel and LPGs. On the other hand, the EPDK, TSE, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Sciences, Industry and Technology is involved in co-operation as part of monitoring the LPG tubes from the full to the last user, in order to prevent the use of tests of LPG and test gas tubes as handmade by the terrorist organisation. The fast-working EPDK will continue to work for the development of markets with the same dedication after today, allowing consumers to benefit from its continuous and quality service. I wish our budget of 2017 was a blessing, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0145par0245	Thank you, Mr. Ayday. Now it's time for Heromarash MP Mehmet Uður Dilpak. Here you go, Mr. Dilipak.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0146par0249	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the budget of the National Bor Research Institute, the BORING 2017 budget. I hereby salute your high council. Dear friends, as in many areas, our government is taking decisive steps regarding resources. Most important of all, it's a boron mine. 73% of the world's reserve was a neglected source of boron minerals found in our country until 2003. In 2003, our government issued Law 4865 and established the National Bor Research Institute. Thus, our national resource, pipe addition, has been designed to transform into high-profile products and to reach its rightful destination in technological and strategic products around the world. Augmentation of use in many sectors from the defence industry of borenine to strategic areas has been intended to bring new values to the national economy. Dear friends, for hundreds of years, the world has been engaged in the struggle to dominate energy and natural resources. Many lives, innocents have been slaughtered for the sake of sneaky purposes, many civilizations, many countries, many countries, they have been brutally occupied for the sake of energy and, of course, resources, they have been wiped out of the scene of history. In our region right now, the main cause of the dramas at our borders is the will of the imperialists to dominate here. Today, the drama of innocent people in Aleppo, Musul, Kerkuk, Telafer, and many parts of the world is a scenario of these imperialists. Unfortunately, in many parts of the world, this dirty game is still going on. When we want to stop these unclean intentions, someone says, "What are you? " Travel events are part of this sneaky and dirty game, December 17th-25th, July 15th invasion attempt. Our nation has broken these games by standing up straight. The traitors had not calculated that this nation would protect the legacy of their fathers with their lives. In the same way, today, the dirty game on dollars, our people stood up to their government, giving the answer. It also gives the best examples of state-national unity. This holy march will continue with our nation. With the permission of my Lord, no power will be able to prevent it. Dear friends, I would like to make a simple suggestion of the events of today's Middle East: If a person were to take a gun and commit a crime, it can be easily identified by whom it was used, where the bullet came from, and how it came from. Today, if the countries that provide weapons to a terrorist organization called DEAS do not provide weapons, the blood that flows in the region will simply be stopped.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0147par0253	That's right.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0146par0254	It's the same for other terrorist organizations. From here, hypothetically, the countries that give these weapons and bullets are the first-degree perpetrators of this problem. History will remember them with a curse, and it's pointless for countries with dirty ambitions to be at the world peace table. For him, our leader and Founding Father Recep Tayyip Erdogan says the world is bigger than five. We desire a fairer, more habitable world for our tomorrows. Dear friends, it's very important to protect our resources while the world is shaped by energy and, of course, resources, to be able to use them for national interests. BOREN is more than capable of carrying out national responsibility. This is the best example of 2017's budget, calculated at $15.53m, divided by 68 per cent into RD. I wish the boren budget to be good for our country's tomorrow, and I salute your grand delegation with the mercy of our heroes who have been martyrs to this country's survival.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0148par0258	Thank you, Mr. Dilipak. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the 12th speaker was Aksaray MP Mustafa Serden Pass. Here you are, Your Honor.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0149par0262	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the Turkish Atomic Energy Agency budget. I salute your high council. Valuable lawmakers, Act 2690 and Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency, established in 1982, have taken on two main tasks to ensure the peaceful use of nuclear energy: one is to contribute to the determination of basic principles and policies related to nuclear energy use and to lead research and development in this regard; the other is to conduct and audit activities necessary to determine and verify that nuclear security, radiation safety, and nuclear security are being provided for the protection of individuals, society and employees. The TAEK operates in cooperation with international centres such as the European Nuclear Research Centre, the International Atomic Energy Agency, the Nuclear Energy Agency. As part of the work done in the field of nuclear technology, one of the most prominent in the activities of the leading company TAEK (TAEK) in our country is the work of accelerant technology. In this context, the domestic proton accelerator design and engineering project is under way, and this project aims to develop domestic accelerant technology. The development of domestic industry and qualified manpower is also among the goals of this project. Studies for the production of radioisotope and radiopharmaceuticals at the TAEK proton accelerator facility in nuclear medicine have reached the final stage of production, allowing the Ministry of Health to produce five products. Product registration studies have begun and will end in 2017. TAEK plans to sell these products at the Proton Accelerator Facility to domestic and international markets. In this case, we'll have a significant exchange entry in this area by exporting the products that we've already paid for in exchange. Another facility to be launched next year is the secondary Standard Dosimetri Laboratory, which will be a reference lab for ionizing radiation metrology in our country. This laboratory will also be completed and will be launched in 2017 following the installation and testing of devices and systems. Under the organisation and audit activities of TAEK., the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant and the Sinop Nuclear Power Plant are being evaluated, authorized and audited by TAEK to determine, operate, and verify the establishment of the company in accordance with modern-day international understanding of nuclear security and safety. In addition, more than 20,000 companies across the country use X-ray devices, closed and open radioactive materials and radioactive materials in medical, industrial and other areas. For all activities and practices with radiation sources in question, a license must be obtained from TAEK (TAEK). More than 7,500 cases per year are conducted, and on average, radiation safety, control and radiation control activities are carried out at 5,500 companies. Dear lawmakers, the level of technological development of countries depends on certain critical technologies that those countries have. There are three critical areas in the technology field; one is nuclear technology, the other is microelectronic and space technology. It's a condition that we have these technologies to get into the world between advanced countries. It is suggested that nuclear and radiological regulatory activities and practical and encouraging activities be separated from nuclear energy to health, agriculture to industry in many different areas for the more efficient and important work of TAEK. In addition, the development of nuclear technology in our country and the recent development of nuclear power plants will require about 15,000 manpower at the level of technicians, engineers and experts. For that, the preparations must begin immediately. Finally, the budget for TAEK has been increased every year. Over the past 20 years, it has been increased 100 times and has been 166 million 750 thousand in 2017. On this occasion, I wish the 2017 central management budget to be good for our country and our nation, with respect and love for everyone.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0150par0272	Thank you, Your Honor. The 13th speaker of the Justice and Development Party Group is Konya MP Omar Ünal. Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0151par0275	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the 2017 budget of the Mining Study and Search Directorate. I salute your high council. Since its establishment, the Mining Study and Research General Directorate has continued its work with 12 regional directorates and central agencies, chemical and petrographic analysis and technological testing, preliminary feasibility studies, marine geysology and geophysics research, various scientific and technological research, in the areas of various activities, including geological and technological research, to closely monitor the scientific and technological developments in the world, and to renovate itself throughout our country. With the data he obtained and produced, the MTA continues its activities to provide the necessary infrastructure to relevant sectors, particularly mining, so that our underground resources can be found, operated, and more accurate, safe settlement planning can be made. Mr. President, the budget of the MTA (MTA) was established in 2015 as 353 trillion 973 billion 442,000 Turkish liras. In 2017, the budget was planned for 679 trillion Turkish liras. 227 trillion Turkish liras were planned for current maintenance personnel, and 452 trillion 35,000 Turkish liras were planned for mining and sea, land, air, social, urbanization sectors. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers, the energy problem, as it is today, is at the beginning of important problems facing our country in the near future. During the last 12 years, energy search for raw materials has been highly valued for the solution of this problem, while the MTA General Directorate has drilled 1.5 million metres in coal over the past nine years, and Turkey's coal reserves have increased from 8 billion tonnes to 89 per cent to 15 billion tonnes in this process, in order to use domestic resources and reduce external dependency. With about 1.7 per cent of the world's coal reserves, our country has an important reserve of 15 billion tons, which is important for its sources of lignite. According to the action plan prepared by our ministry's underground resources as part of search and research activities, our country's need for high-calorie coal searches will be weighted and aimed at drilling 6,000 metres for this purpose. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as it is known, efforts are under way to turn electricity production into investment by the General Directorate of the EC as part of an action action plan, which has been put into effect by our ministry to open domestic coal sources for production. In my constituency, the Konya Karapınar Ayrancı coal field, the MTA General Directorate has begun to conduct drilling and reporting on international standards for efforts to develop reserves for the General Directorate of Electric Productions as part of inter-agency cooperation. Work began on 5 June 2016, with a coal drilling study of 55,688 metres as of December 5, 2016, and 6.605 metres of hydrogeology drilling in progress. Analyses of drilling in the field at the end of 2016 and coal samples from drillings are scheduled to be completed by the end of January 2017 and will be handed over to the MTA General Directorate on the field. The potential of the Karapınar thermal plant, thought to be 1,500 megawatts in the first place, is twice the size of the Afshin-Elbistan thermal plant. As I hereby end my words, I wish that 2017's budget would be a blessing, and I salute the Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0152par0288	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. In the 14th place...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0153par0290	Mr. President, I'd like word from the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0152par0291	Mr. Bilgen, come in. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0153par0295	Mr. President, it is a responsibility for lawmakers to use a clean language and not use an incriminating language in their speech on this bench. The deputy who spoke on behalf of the AKP in the 9th place -- we've asked for arrests now -- says just like this: "Don't talk about the coup attempt of traitors under the guise of military journalists and MPs in our midst." Now, we don't know who he means by soldiers here, because the ones who signed the promotions of these soldiers in the High Military District, the Prime Minister, the President and the brother of an AKP official, are probably in the category of what you refer to as being promoted by very special means. I'd like to remind you that it's a very dangerous way to consider every opposition media about journalists as traitors, because our co-chairs went to Russia when they first used the phrase "traitors" about us, about our MPs, now that the Prime Minister is in Russia. So I don't think you should use the word "hatin'" so cheaply, but especially...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0152par0298	Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone, complete.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0153par0299	...this way of dealing with people's clients, despite the basis of innocence, although no conviction has been found yet, when you use this completely incriminating language, then these statements will come back to you. For example, Zencani -- convicted of execution -- says: "I paid 8.5 billion bribes in Turkey." To whom did he give it, to opposition parties? If we were to stand up here and say, under the guise of the nation, the corrupt, the thieves under the guise of the nation, the thieves that you did not judge on December 17th or 25th, would that be appropriate? Therefore, innocence is the main thing. Even in extraordinary circumstances, you need to think again when you use the expression "hein" (hein). Political criticism is one thing, but if you talk like that about something without judgment, you're lowering the level of this place. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0154par0302	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0155par0303	Mr. President, he said something about my speech, and I'd like to answer it. 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0156par0350	The 14th speaker is Antalya MP Hüseyin Samani. Here you are, Mr. Samani.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0157par0353	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. I salute you. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers are a strategic sector because of the growing world population, the extinction of agricultural land, climate change and the decline of water resources, as well as a very important area in which human beings exist throughout history and many civilisations are established; although it has been pushed to the second plan after the industrial revolution, it employs 40 per cent of the world's population and is the primary livelihood of 75 per cent of the world's poor. Therefore, the world's population balance, which they have replaced with wars for global politics, for oil and gas, will prevent global disasters from happening in the coming years, if they take action on a global level again. If they don't, today's storm for oil and gas will break for food and water tomorrow. Let us not forget that the death of the earth is the death of the nebate and the death of mankind. Dear friends, we moved Turkey to the European summit at the European summit in the agricultural product. In 2002, we increased our 36 billion agricultural revenues by 4 times in 2015 to 147.2 billion Turkish dollars. In 2002, Turkey was ranked fourth in agriculture, followed by France, Italy and Spain, and has the largest agricultural product in Europe from 2005 to today. In 2002, exports of $3.8 billion reached $17 billion in 2015. Our goal is to increase our exports further. In the past 14 years, the cash we've paid the Turkish farmer has reached about 90 billion TL in total. Starting next year, we'll cover half the gas consumption. The interest rate between 59 per cent and 69 per cent in agricultural loans in 2002 continues to be applied between 0 per cent and 8.25 per cent in 2016. In 2002, we raised animal support for 83 million dollars to $3 billion Turkish dollars in 2016. In the last 14 years, we've given a total of $21 billion to animalism. In 2010, we took up livestock as a zero interest loan, and so far we've used $9.8 billion in loans. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have supported 1.4 billion Turkish liras in the last 11 years for seedling and seedling that is very important. Turkey has reached a position in international norms with a seed production and certification system. In 2015, we exported about 27,000 tons of seed to 70 countries. In the coming period, we will expand the use of certified seeds and increase our support for seed development research, particularly vegetables and bait plants. So we're moving quickly towards making our country one of the first five countries in the world in the field of seeding. And we'll continue to support domestic seedling. In the last 11 years, we've supported about 1.4 billion Turkish liras for seeding and seeding, and we've led Turkey to a country that exports seeds. In 14 years, we have transferred 1.7 billion Turkish liras for agricultural RD. We'll increase the amount of resources in the coming period. Mr. President, good lawmakers, one of the main problems of our farmers is that their products are guaranteed to take risks. This is the first time we've started an agricultural insurance policy. We're paying 50% for the insurance policy to protect our farmer from natural disasters. In 2017, we will expand the scope of TARSIM, and we will expand the coverage of insurance in fruits, wheat products, animal life insurance, and so on. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the first of our country's EXPO, flower and child-themed EXPO Antalya Aksu, took life in April 2016. Dear friends, the budget of our Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 is for our country, for the good people of our country, for tomorrow, for the world that we have borrowed from them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...for our children, especially for our agricultural sector and for our producers. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0158par0364	Thank you, Mr. Samani. Mr. Kavioğlu, I believe you have a request for a statement according to Article 60. Here you go, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0159par0369	Mr. President, I believe the CIDEP has made a point of my speech.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0160par0370	It's not CIDEP, it's HDP!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0161par0371	HDP, you will learn, HDP.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0159par0372	Now, what I mean by soldiers is that on the night of July 15th, everyone knows. Again, what I refer to as journalists is the definition of some journalists who, on the eve of decisions against the European Parliament, speak against Turkey on European television, and are sometimes defended here, is probably the definition of the ligament, nothing more. Again, it's about lawmakers who are out there right now speaking against Turkey, and the workers who killed the Turkish soldier, the terrorists, who went to these terrorists' funerals instead of the military funeral, they're traitors to me, they're traitors to me, they'll remain traitors to me. So what I mean is...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0162par0376	Those who feed Fetullah Gülen Until the 15th of July are traitors, and those traitors are sitting here.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0163par0377	You're the traitor! Are you a prosecutor or a judge or what?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0164par0378	Put your hand down!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0165par0379	If you're offended, take it.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0166par0380	Congressmans, please, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0165par0381	What I mean is that they're all traitors who put a bullet in a Turkish soldier.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0166par0382	Thank you, Mr. Kavacioglu.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0167par0383	You raised Fetullah Smiley for 12 years, all state institutions...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0168par0384	You are the greatest traitor! Are you a judge or a prosecutor?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0169par0385	Shut the fuck up! Shut the fuck up! You know exactly what I mean.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0167par0386	You're crypto! 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0170par0433	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the 15th speaker is Aydın MP Mehmet Erdem. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0171par0436	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I will speak for the EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. I salute you and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0172par0437	You have raised and brought Fetullah Gulen, prosecutors, governors, governors, all the bureaucracy, the state in your hands, and now here you are smiling.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0170par0438	Congressmans, please, sir, the speaker is on the stand, please...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0171par0439	Our former Speaker of Parliament, who served as many ministers of Aydın and Turkey, and we also bless the late Ismet Sezgin of our former mayors -- we lost him yesterday -- to his relatives, loved ones, and to our fellow citizens of the Enlightenment. Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in the beautiful expression of our country's agriculture, we can't develop Turkey without improving its agriculture. The target of the EC PARTİ is 2023 in agriculture to complete the collection of land in 14 million hectares, to water all 8.5 million hectares with modern irrigation techniques, to deliver agricultural exports to 500 billion euros, to 150 billion euros. We're not using dollars here, we're moving on to TL. Our plant production, 98 million tonnes in 2002, reached 115 million tonnes today, and our animal production, which is 12 million tons in 2002, has increased by twice as much to 24 million tonnes. The EC PARTY governments have always sided with our farmer for the growth and development of the agricultural sector, moving from day-to-day to strategic planning. For this reason, 15 laws have been passed, including Food, Land and Land Use, Agriculture Insurance, Organic Agriculture, Seedification, Producing Unions and Licensed Storage Laws, particularly the Agriculture Law. For our young people this year, 15 thousand projects will be paid $450 million in grants under the Young Farmer Grant Project, so that they can produce more and win. Our government has implemented the National Agriculture Project. The national Agricultural Project (National Agriculture Project) and 941 agricultural basins across Turkey will be declared which of the 19 strategic products will be supported in which basins, allowing the manufacturer to plan products and production. The farmer's sweat will be used more effectively to maintain the market order, the Earth's Harvest Office will be paid twice a year -- in a row, agricultural support payments spread out in 12 months and paid in October and harvest time -- so that our farmer will have more money in good order. In our 30 provinces, which make up 56 percent of our existence, 36 per cent of our cattle, the mera will be created, and the mera will be subsidized to those who want to do livestock, provided they make amends, with small coins. In 32 counties, including my constituency, Aydın Province, there will be at least 500 major breeding dens, and in 26 counties, there will be at least 500 major breeding rams, single centers. In white meat, our first native mother chicken will be released in 2017, hopefully. The purpose of all these practices is to ensure and reduce imports and domestic production of our young animals and wings, a healthy, quality and efficient breed of mothers. As the late Lover Veysel said, I have embraced many as friends, and my faithful beloved is the land of the land. Our faithful wife will be declared 184 plains in our country to protect the land, and the use of this land will be prevented for any reason other than agriculture. Agricultural investments are funded by 50 per cent as part of the Rural Development Investment Support Programme. In this case, $2.5 billion has been paid. My area of choice, where oil flows from its mountains and honey flows from its plains, is a very important province in the area of Aydın agriculture and animalism; Turkey is the first in the presence of an olive tree in the production of figs and chestnuts. Turkey's finest cotton grows in Aydın. We're the second in Turkey to produce strawberries. We're sending our producers' demands to the Ministry and our government, especially figs, to pay premiums for chestnuts and table-based olive products. Basically, all products produced in Turkey must be supported under the scope of opportunities because this is also an opportunity to avoid informality. 2017 calls upon our producers and farmers to have a blessed year of grace and blessing, and I wish the budget of 2017 to be good for our country and our nation.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0173par0446	Thank you, Your Grace. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the final speaker is Salih Firat, Adıyaman MP. Here you are, Mr. Firat.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0174par0450	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the tobacco and alcohol market regulatory organization in 2017. I salute your high council. It has administrative and financial autonomy with Law 4733, which is established in 2002, allowing the market for tobacco, tobacco products, alcohol and alcoholic beverages to operate in a healthy way, in order to regulate, oversee and control these markets in terms of domestic and external trade. The procedure and basis for the production of tobacco and tobacco products, domestic and external purchases and sales are redesigned by this law. There has been no regulation under the law about planning production, retaliating land and putting quotas under the rules of free competition in the tobacco market, with the idea that the supply-request mechanism will balance production over time. In 2002 and the following years, support for tobacco products is not received. According to the decree, TeKEL has been terminated from receiving support for the state name and account. The law does not include any provisions that limit or ban tobacco production, but is allowed to produce tobacco on the basis of the release of its buyer. Starting in 2002, market-value tobacco types are produced by contracting manufacturers to demand buyers, and this is how the purchase is done. Instead of non-request leaf tobacco, the market value of tobacco has achieved successful results in efforts to produce its production by the private sector, particularly Adıyaman, Batman, Diyarbakır, Hatay. Instead of non-responsored tobacco, work for the production of demand tobacco is sought by the institution to boost rural employment and the country's production potential, supported by administrative and technical information. Another advantage for tobacco manufacturers living in the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions has been implemented by a change in Law 4733 in 2008. With the amendment to Article 8 of the Law, manufacturers can use their own leaf tobacco to obtain up to 50 kilograms of smoked tobacco for their own needs. Turkey continues to lead the world in the production and export of song-type tobacco dried up in the sun. In 2016, 55,042 manufacturers were contracted to produce 75,996 tonnes of tobacco. The institution, on the one hand, is able to create a healthy and functioning market structure, in order to regulate, oversee, and monitor the tobacco goods sector, co-operate with illegal trade and follow-up institutions, securing the market and revenues. At the same time, the Tobacco Control Framework Convention is available from devastating, health, social, environmental and economic consequences caused by tobacco consumption, taking measures to package and label tobacco products in order to protect future generations. In the alcohol market, he introduced legislation for the denature of methane to prevent the production of fake alcoholic beverages produced using methanol. On the other hand, the tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency, as well as its market regulation and audit, has been most effectively authorized and assigned to our Ministry of Health in tobacco control studies. In this framework, successful results in regulatory practices, legislation regulation and changes adopted by the Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency have contributed greatly to our country's move to the top of tobacco management and implementation of the world. National and international studies of tobacco and alcohol control are organised by the institution to boost public awareness. Posters, postcards, web posters were printed, public spotlights were set and aired on TV. Our agency has established the installation of the Tobacco and Tobacco Mamults Analysis, Research and Development Laboratory in the field of duty and authority this year. On this occasion, I wish our 2017 budget to be a blessing, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0175par0459	Thank you, Mr. Firat. The talks on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group are over. Mr. Sky, do you have a commitment request?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0176par0462	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0175par0463	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0176par0466	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it's a sad part of these budget talks, especially when the ministers have left their seats frequently since this morning, and that talks with the Ministry of Energy have been held in an environment where the Minister of Energy is currently absent. In a budget that the ministers don't honor, the country is on fire, when the prime minister talks, the dollar goes up, the president makes a statement as the dollar goes up. Everyone cash their dollars. And it turns out the president has a dollar account, a foreign currency account, but no one's seen the receipt for turning it into Turkish lira. My real question is, why would a president not trust his country's money and then invest it in dollars?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0177par0470	His idea is already the President, what are you saying?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0176par0471	Is there a painting like this? Do the prime ministers of another country, foreign countries, or heads of state, use their money in any money other than their own country's money? Is there a painting like this?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0177par0473	He's the president who started that campaign.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0178par0474	Go ahead and complete it, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0176par0475	We also talk about nationalism, but there has to be something to explain about the country's investing money in dollars instead of the President's Turkish lira. Just as PTT, a national organization today, declares with drums, PTT says that we have converted the currency in our account into Turkish currency, $171m and 20m euros. Why doesn't a national corporation invest in Turkish money? Mr. Secretary, please explain these. There are some serious allegations today about the Minister of Energy. Where is the Minister of Energy in these allegations? So hold your dissertation because someone else wrote it, and there are very serious allegations today, and there are no explanations from the Minister of Energy today. I waited patiently until this hour to see if there would be any explanation. What does the Minister of Energy say about the allegations found in WikiLeaks documents and in many newspapers? Did he write his own thesis or did someone else write it? These allegations need to be answered in some way, the Minister is missing. We'll question them, the ministers are on the run.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0178par0477	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0179par0480	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Secretary at the ECK meeting, he'll be here any minute. They've got other duties, but they're running. I don't think it's appropriate to make some kind of polymix through the President. When I say polemics, I mean that the dollar has been raised recently, right, but there have been times when the dollar has remained constant. It doesn't matter if people use their personal accounts one way or the other, it's the critical times and the harmony of what they say to society when they're a host to the community, and the account movements of the President are consistent with that. Or yesterday, when there was no question of dollars, Mr. President had a dollar account. No one was talking here. So today, because the dollar has gone up, I find it unfair to a president who has done exactly the same thing to the public. Thank you. 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0180par0530	Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the first speaker is Mud MP Ahmet Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0181par0533	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I wish the 2017 budget to bring peace, hard work to the entire country and to be used in this direction. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are getting the budget cut short. 10 members of the Parliament, with the same rights as you, are missing, and let's just say, Mr. President, that if our 10 co-chairs with one political decision hadn't been arrested, we would have planned these 2017 central management budget talks: a co-chair would have spoken on the whole budget, a co-chair would have spoken at the closing, and eight others would have spoken on different ministries, institutions and organizations. He has the same rights as us, even now. In certain cases alone, the fact that they are being tried against the Constitution does not make their rights as a member of the law any more different than we do. We all know that. On this basis, especially in this budget, let's say that this budget is a war budget. When our co-Chair gave his opening statement, he was likely to speak in this direction, and a few months ago, our party made a speech about the budget at the group meeting to our esteemed paralegal friends here for only 40 seconds...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0182par0537	Is there such a procedure, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0183par0538	Mr. President, that's not true, President.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0184par0539	Mr. President, would you please intervene in this situation?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0183par0540	Mr. President, step in.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0185par0541	Your president didn't even bother to come to the House without an oath. Don't do it.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0184par0542	Mr. President, the bench is for the speakers to speak there. Please intervene in this situation.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0186par0543	He is a member of the law.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0187par0544	President, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0188par0545	Yeah... [[Applause from HDP rows]] Our co-Chair says that the budget, which is exponential, should be used for the sake of people's happiness, peace, well-being, should be budgeted accordingly. Beyond that, he speaks as a brief statement from a speech that corrupts our social peace, poisons our daily lives, causes the deaths of young people, refusing to budget the blood that bleeds every day.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0187par0548	Say one word to the PKK.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0189par0549	Shut up! You'll be as stoned as the PKK.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0188par0550	Now, my dear friends, let me tell you this: This is a very different claim on the central management budget in 2017, and the budget is said to be well prepared using numbers. Look, even today, Precious Ali Ozcan of the main opposition party told us that even if the ruling authorities and those who run this country are just silent, we believe that the stock exchange and foreign currency schools in particular will be more normative. The ECK has just gathered, the Economic Co-ordination Board, the Prime Minister, has made a statement, and the dollar has risen by 10 cents before its statement has been completed; so this is what social reality has to do with it. I'll tell you a few more things. Other than that, Mr. President, given the fact that the Central Bank is in debt deficits and the fact that companies are in debt, according to October data, the Federal Bank's official reserves are $118 billion, not just $25 billion, but when we reduce the gold reserves, the IMF reserve position, the foreign currency loans, and the amount that should be taken out, the central bank's currency reserve, as claimed, is not just $118 billion. Mr. President, is the government -- in its own words -- talking about encouraging TLS instead of foreign money -- loaning 5 mega projects, Osmangazi Bridge, the third bridge of the Bosphorus, third airport and city hospitals to foreigners, in particular through exchange? And they add up to $23.7 billion. The ruling mind, who wants the public to cash in their dollar that we don't know is worth a dime, takes the resources of this country away and goes back to chasing strangers under the name of the mega project. Another is... the net entry of foreign investment in the country from January 2016 to September 2016 has decreased by 49.3%, according to TÜİK data. What does that mean? There's a shortage of dollars waiting for us in the future. Dear lawmakers, on the other hand, in the last year, from January 1st until now -- we haven't even completed the year -- we boast that we've raised the minimum wage to $1,300, and I'll tell you one thing: the minimum wage of $1,300 was 451 on January 1st, and today 361 dollars and 20 percent lost in the first ten months. That's what minimum wage looks like. Now, it was impossible for the government to face a different economic reality, which was experiencing political chaos that didn't bring stability to the inside, and had prioritized outside chaos policies. According to this, operations facing our party, our co-Chairs, our MPs, our party managers have nothing to do with a judicial process -- no matter how much you claim it. It is clear that even part of the ruling party disagrees. In an environment where even a part of the ruling party thinks this is not the product of a judicial process, we will not subject the taking of our friends to anything but a political rematch. No one in the country or abroad believes that this is a product of judiciary, judicial processes and decisions, except for political power -- which is not all of them -- and the fact that the media is constantly following manipulative policies does not change that reality. We also associate the role of power in this business with the lack of response to attacks on our headquarters, our county and county agencies and our activities. There's a reason for this tyranny and weakness. It's nothing but the weak and violent ways of those who can't handle the democratic struggle, who can't deal with politics, who can't handle the election, who can't keep our party under the dams, who can't handle the law. This is not called independent judgment. Turkey and the world don't believe it, a part of power believes it alone. Let's look at human rights reports of the European Union, look at U.N. reports, look at Amnesty International reports, all of which say it's a political coup and that human rights violations in Turkey have gone to extremes. We know that the judgment is not independent, except for those who are put before political judgment today. There are no true judges; but those who turn their affairs to God's forgiveness cannot go through this process without bringing regret even once in the eyes of the world. For example, let us share with you an exemplary issue only after July 15th. For years, those who force people to associate with the Smilers don't answer, those who do so deliberately don't answer, but those who coerce themselves with them today are all in prison and tortured. For years, the AKP's government followed a political line that led everyone, everyone, to Pennsylvania for every job. Those who wanted to move up in politics had to go through Pennsylvania, they had to go through Pennsylvania, they had to go through Pennsylvania, they had to go to Pennsylvania, they had to get rich, they had to get a bid; it was a chronic systematic policy of power. At the academy, in the judiciary, in the police, in the army, in disguise, in Pennsylvania, they had to be brought to their knees, bound, and humbled. Dear MPs, there is almost one political structure left in Turkey that has not been penetrated, has not surrendered, has not surrendered. Which is, let's just say, we're the structure that has to pay the ultimate price. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, would it be appropriate for you to take two minutes off my friend Mahmoud Toğrul?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0190par0559	Of course you're welcome. I believe Mr. Toğrul agrees.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0188par0561	Do you agree, Mr. Toğrul?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0191par0562	I do.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0190par0563	Here you go. I'll give you two more minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0188par0564	Okay, thanks. Now, when it comes to the HDP, the Kurdish people's democracy, freedom, peace struggle does not prevent them from having a political relationship with this structure even today. The following is: Look, all the commanders who destroyed those cities in Cizrede, Tyre, lice, Nusaybin, Şırnak, Yüksekova, but they were arrested after July 15th because they were accused of being members of the organization. Again, our deputy, mayor, and party executives, one of whom is our Diyarbakır Metropolitan Co-Chair, Dear Fırat Anlı, arrested through the files their prosecutors have prepared. When it comes to us, your partnership continues to run smoothly even today. Dear lawmakers, they all mean nothing more than to respond to right-seeking processes, democratic politics, and persecution policies. Neither we nor our people will give up this honorable path. Let's put it this way: if you want to learn how to practice and resist your policies of oppression and persecution, you can go and ask those police chiefs, those judges, those military chiefs, who you've partnered with over the years, who know us well. Look, your partners know exactly how we stand up to persecution policies. There are many examples of the world where the struggle has been revealed, where democracy, freedom and peace gains are accused of so easily divisive, but there is no example in which the struggle for democracy and peace and its demands divide the country. I say it's denial, denial, assimilation policies, pressure and persecution processes, and I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0192par0569	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0193par0570	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0192par0571	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0193par0572	In his speech, Mr. Yıldırım made a bet on the arrested MPs that some of the government didn't believe in independent judgment, and in that case...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0194par0573	Yes, the President told me.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0193par0574	... He referred to the fact that he had made statements about the matter, that we had two fundamental differences, that some of us believed in independent judgment, and some of us didn't. I want a word from you on this unfair and unwarranted taunt.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0195par0575	Is this criticism against the government or against your group?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0193par0576	The power defined it as power, the AK PARTY Group. Anyway, the person he's referring to is a statement from a friend of the AK PARTY Group.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0196par0577	If so, what more do you want?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0195par0578	Mr. Bostanci, if you'll be more specific, I'll promise, if not, that the criticism is directed at the government...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0197par0579	There's lots, there's lots. There's a lot of people who think like that and can't say it.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0198par0580	Sir, the reference is to the AK PARTY Group. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0195par0581	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0199par0583	Mr. President, please don't talk with them.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0200par0584	Mr. President, can you take them down?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0201par0585	Our friend's coming, so you can turn him over if you want.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0199par0586	No, not at all. Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0202par0587	What, you're so uncomfortable, what?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0203par0588	Put him down.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0199par0589	Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0204par0590	Your friends aren't as patient as you are.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0205par0591	Okay, you can put it back in when the guys get here.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0206par0592	Why are you so uncomfortable?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0207par0593	Mr. Bostanci, he can deliver it himself.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0205par0596	Mr. President, my dear friends, after the constitutional amendment to immunity, there have been some savings of the law, some lawmakers on the road to arrest...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0206par0597	Which law?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0205par0598	And a friend of ours expressed an opinion that it would be better not to do so, and our other friends didn't express any opinions, and he didn't say, "It's fine, it should be arrested." It's a total law-related savings. Basically, what we're doing here politically is we're only creating legal savings with the ability to change the Constitution about immunity.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0206par0599	Which law?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0205par0600	If there's an opinion, an argument, an argument, the basis for this is the courts...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0206par0601	What court?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0205par0602	...and the necessary places, I'm sure, friends are doing the necessary applications there.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0208par0603	Courts that run by instructions?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0205par0604	Now, what we're really trying to do here is to put pressure on the law by bidding on political power over and over again. It is said that you, in fact, act like this under pressure from political decisions rather than by law, and you will not do so, you will abandon our friends. A reverse mechanism and propaganda is working, and I must find it right, my friends. Also, now, of course, it is in principle all of us who want to be here and participate in the legislature activities that the people choose, but you can appreciate that it can't just be us, you...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0209par0606	Why doesn't the law apply to you?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0205par0607	...of course, shouldn't people who are concerned also be aware of what they're doing under the law? That's for the law to decide. I hope it ends well. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0210par0610	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0211par0611	Mr. President, Mr. Bostanci, in that kind language, you really want to do this. He used the sentence that I didn't use in my name. According to the Civil Charter 69...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0210par0612	Mr. Lightning, there's no bullying.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0211par0613	But he used a sentence I didn't say in my name, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0210par0614	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0212par0616	Mr. President, Mr. Yıldırım has expressed his own understanding, and I have expressed my own understanding of the matter. I don't think it's right to make a tease out of it.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0213par0617	It was a taunt, an open taunt.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0210par0618	Here you go, Mr. Lightning. Please, don't let me pick on you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0214par0621	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, with Naci Hoxha's nice manner, with his polite speech, months ago, we said Mr. Davutoglu is leaving. We remember that he often repeats his sentences. There is no bread for you. There's no such thing in our party. You've said it over and over again. But we spoke here according to the coup of Mr. Davutoglu, who was elected by Mr. Davutoglu, and you didn't agree at the time; it was just like the coup of November 4 coup. And the party happened inside of you. And make no mistake that the same blow will come into your party today. And your silence about your policies, which you feel wrongly about, even if we don't be reposed or arrested, will never interfere with your direction, believe me. In this way, it's a political coup. There are no conditions for the whole country to be happy in the reality of a country, which is imposed on one part of the country, except in extraordinary circumstances, making millions especially unhappy in one part of the country. You can't impose these unusual conditions on us and this country as fate. There are dozens of examples of similar social problems being solved with peace, speech, words, pen, so many deaths, so many blood policies are not the fate of this country.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0215par0623	You guys have Kalashnikovs, and we can't see them? Are we the ones who can't see the pens, or are those guns you don't leave?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0214par0624	I'm not just saying that for the people who were killed in the area, I'm saying that for the families of soldiers and police who were killed there, because it's not the soldiers and the cops who decided the war, but the soldiers and the cops who gave their lives there. I say we're going to tell the whole country, and I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0216par0627	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0217par0628	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0216par0629	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0217par0630	Mr. Yıldırım's controversial statements have been discussed here, and we have had our answers, but I have received this promise to record that I have rejected his assessments of me and my friends based on prophecy and intent at the entrance of his speech. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0216par0632	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. It's on the record. 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account The second speaker on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group is İstanbul MP Garo Paylan. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0218par0683	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, we're all blowing our throats here, giving our opinion. What are we doing this for, especially in opposition? To impress the majority of you ruling party MPs, to influence them in our own way, but I've just counted, there are 28-30 AKP MPs here, so you're not a majority right now, and even if I impress you, this budget will go through those who come and take their hands off at eight o'clock. Why are we blowing our throats, guys? Is that our respect for each other, our respect for the House? So, what are the ministries we've been seeing? The Department of Transport is here, there's no Department of Agriculture... We're here, sir. Oh, there's the Department of Agriculture. We don't have the Department of Energy, we don't have the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of economic management. We're interviewing four major ministries, very important to Turkey, two here, two there.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0219par0689	They have valuable jobs, valuable jobs.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0218par0690	Look, what you call work... is Turkey's budget for 2017. Is there anything more important than that? The Economic Co-ordination Board can meet at night. Isn't that right? Don't we work here all night, guys? Aren't we working until 5 a.m.? There should be ministers here, listening to our criticism. Maybe they'll change their minds. The majority of AKP MPs should be here, listening. Only to come down with a hand up is to discredit this House, my friends. We must all think of the reputation of this House. Look, don't...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0219par0692	How many days are you coming?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0218par0693	...sees this House as a notary, a notary.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0219par0694	Tell me how many days you're coming.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0218par0695	He sees us as notary officers, notarized notary officers. We created this, too. Because look, I've been here a hundred years...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0219par0696	How many days are you coming? How many days are you coming?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0218par0697	Mr. President, would you step in, please, they're disrupting my staff.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0220par0698	You go ahead, Mr. Paylan. Congressmans, please, sir, please listen to the speaker.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0221par0700	Tell him the preacher's coming, Mr. President, he's not coming, he's coming once, and then he's talking.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0220par0701	Congressmans, please, sir, please.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0222par0702	Dear friends, we've been hit in our 150-year-old parliamentary tradition. We haven't exactly established the reputation of this House yet. And the coups were done by that power that was always at the center, and there were always power wars. A force was always at the center, Parliament tried to take that power, tried to take some judgment, tried to control the press, but it was always a custody issue at the center. We've had a lot of recent blows. We've been passing through a cloud of impact recently. We've had high hopes, but we've always been through a cloud of coups and custody. Consider the recent impacts. Especially -- let's not look at the old blows -- but let's look at the coup d'etat on September 12, 1980, you guys, to see if we're learning from the coups. Mr. Demirel had a saying: On September 11th, people died every day, bombs went off every day. Yeah, there was martial law that day. On this September 13th, he asked, "How did the bombings stand, my friends?" That's a very good question. But we couldn't learn a lesson from that question as a political institution. And then we went through the 28th of February, guys. There was custody, and from this February 28th period, AKP sociology showed a reaction, and the AKP came to power on charges of getting rid of change and transformation and custody institutions. In his first term, Mr. Prime Minister -- without the Prime Minister, Abdullah Gul had the Prime Minister's office -- went to the European Union, and said, "I will change Turkey, I will transform it." But against the claim to convert, the guardianship agencies kept that coup mechanism in place. From 2003 onwards, there are many names for the yellow girl, and since she has not yet been judged, I won't say right or wrong, but there are actual circumstances. When you look at those Balyoz, Ergenekon indictments, you can say, "manipulations," you can say, many, many of them are political genocide operations, but there are real crimes; Hrant Dink was murdered, Pastor Santoro was killed, Danıştay was raided, Malatya Summit Publishing House was raided. Look at all these events. We said, "Hey, AKP power, come look at this." This is a cloud of impact, the dynamic of impact. It turns out the congregation is on line. We said that when Hrant Dink was murdered, we pointed out 34 public officials. There were congregants in it, there were Ergenekon defendants, there were bureaucrats close to AKP, and then you did the minister, you made the MP, so I'm telling you, they were all actors in the murder. Let him be brought forth with a fair trial. If Hrant Dink's murder had been judged fairly, we wouldn't have passed through these clouds, but you didn't, and as you did not, I'll question all of this in the congregation. The congregation who came here had only one problem: I'm dealing with political genocide operations and I'm dealing with these coupgers. And then, when you guys fell into each other in the power fight, he exposed the congregation and the impact dynamic and the operations of December 17-25 -- right, lie, we'll see, of course -- and then there'll be a lot of events, bombs, explosions, all of this -- and when we look at it, one eye has activated this impact dynamic, friends. An eye within the state was running the Ankara Station massacre. Someone's been guiding those ISIS cells. He's been causing a lot of explosions in airport explosions. Look, last year, two of our police officers were killed on July 22, 2015. Ahmet Davutoglu, who you call "the mobster," who you call "the prosecutor," who passed an intel, who received the message on the radio, who received an order from the Kandil. They said, "Two policemen were murdered." They ordered Ahmet Davutoglu to remove the planes that day. Since then, we have lost almost 10,000 people; soldiers, police, guerrillas, civilians, and about 10,000 people have been lost.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0223par0704	What the hell is Guerilla? Let's hear it, let's hear it, let's hear it, let's hear it.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0222par0705	Here, in this General Assembly, over and over, I said that the impact dynamic is in effect, friends, that if the peace process is over, the coup dynamics are in effect; in the Plan Budget Commission, my friends are witnesses, I said that the coup dynamics are in effect, I said wake up. But you guys got caught up in the nationalist delusions that were created, forgot you were a politician, just yelled at us, and we got the coupgers to rub their hands on you. Another request of the coupters, remove their immunity. They said: "Let the controversy grow, let the camp rise, and let us rub their hands -- let us walk to the coup." Here, in the Constitutional Commission, when the parliamentary immunity was discussed, we were rubbing each other's hands while we were doing the coup.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0223par0707	You didn't! You provoked it, you ran away.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0222par0708	How nice, camping, polarization will rise, people will rise, there will be riots, there will be bombs, there will be massacres, and we will march on the coup. They said, "This is how they walked the coup, my friends. So, did we learn from July 15th? A coup d'état, a coup d'état... have we learned a lesson? No. We sent messages to many AKP officials, including Mr. President, saying, "Come, let's learn a lesson from this coup." We made the first call, the co-chair of the 4 political parties, the presidents, come, let's open a white page, what mistakes we've made. We said, "It's a coup." But the coupgers of the new era, the former coupgers, have surrounded Mr. President; the political institution can't influence Mr. President, it can't influence legislation; the trial is silent, the press has been silenced. There's a group of sycophants around Mr. President, and they say, "Pharaoh, bless you every day." They're stuck, politics can't reach it. Politics, if it can't affect governance... it makes mistakes without control... as any man can make mistakes. And as these mistakes are made, the impact dynamics come in, the power wars come in, and they keep knitting socks on our heads. I'm going to say the same thing, look, like the story of the killing of those two policemen that Mr. Davutoglu believed, why are we in Syria, friends? Because the President said: "Our patience has overflowed."
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0224par0711	Why is the PKK there?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0222par0712	In Gaziantep, 56 of our children were killed by an ISIS militant, and that night the army was at the border, and the next day our army entered Syria.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0224par0713	What's the PKK doing there?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0222par0714	Don't you guys see a game in this?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0224par0715	What's the YPG doing there?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0222par0716	Don't you see any game in this? Don't you see this game of people who sacrificed 56 of our children, who knew it in a way that I'm sure of within the state? If we don't see these games, they'll make more socks for us, fellas.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0224par0718	You see, don't be a tong, don't be a tong. You guys see.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0222par0719	Come on, let's get the political community involved. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0225par0722	Thank you, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0226par0723	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0225par0724	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0226par0725	In his speech, Mr. Paylan described the new phase of terrorism in July 2015 as a tragic incident in which the state was met by Ahmet Davutoglu, our President-General and Prime Minister, who played. This is extremely wrong, and the AK PARTY, which has implicated our group...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0225par0726	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0227par0728	When we criticize every government, if the group responds...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0226par0729	I'm taking this aside again.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0228par0730	Don't touch it, Mr. President, don't let it get to you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0227par0731	Yeah, yeah...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0229par0732	Of course, the shop is yours.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0230par0733	Why are you bothering me?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0231par0734	Save it, Mr. Bostanci, what's it gonna be?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0232par0735	You said you wanted him out, you couldn't stand his photos.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0233par0738	Mr. President, dear friends, enter the Google, there's a famous saying by Marx: Every former society pregnant with a new society is violent. Enter this word from Marx, which page will you first face? I'll tell you: PKK. Violence for the PKK is a political strategy. It started in 1984; it reduced and multiplied and so on, but in any case, there's a target he wants to achieve with violence, that's why he's here.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0234par0739	Why didn't you talk about it in 2013?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0233par0740	He never gave up, not before or after, not today or tomorrow, in July 2015.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0234par0741	Why didn't you speak in 2013?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0233par0742	As long as the PKK doesn't disappear, PKK and violence are so twin brothers that it can't give up violence. Here's what happened in July 2015: developments in Syria, with the twinkling of YPG elements in the northern Syrian region, and global forces in the region. The perception and the PKK's move to transport this opportunity to Turkey, the politics of creating areas saved by the revolutionary public war have revealed that violence. Otherwise, the phone came, Kandil came, Mehmet said...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0234par0744	That's what you said.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0233par0745	...if we link such plots to these events, and the real link behind it and the real perpetrator of terrorism do not see the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), we will make such assessments if we are blind to it. It's all wrong. The PKK is the only perpetrator of the violence in Turkey. (EC PARTY) Who wants to oppose violence, who will oppose Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and that is the debt of everyone's neck to humanity. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0235par0748	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0236par0749	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0235par0750	Mr. Paylan...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0236par0751	He told me I was playing tricks, sir. I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0235par0752	Did he mention that you were playing a game of intrigue?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0236par0753	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0237par0754	No, I said you were plotting. I didn't say you were scheming.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0236par0755	Yes, sir, there's teasing, that's all.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0238par0756	Mr. Paylan, I'll give you my word on your position, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0236par0757	Look, there's teasing, but please...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0239par0758	No, there's teasing, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0236par0759	He said "intrigues" or something, how else is he going to pick on me?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0240par0760	Sir, I... Say the sentence again, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0241par0762	Mr. President, I told you that you were plotting the incident in July 2015.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0242par0763	He says I tied him up, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0241par0764	▪ The parallelists burned Kandil, the police were martyred, for saying so...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0242par0765	Let me explain, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0243par0766	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0241par0767	That's my assessment.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0244par0768	Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0245par0770	It's not a plot, sir. Look, the intelligence guys who gave me that intel are in there right now because of what you said. Those who told Mr. Davutoglu that 2 police officers were killed on orders from Kandil are now in prison for the trial of the congregation. Second: There three Kurdish youth were arrested in charge of the situation. The prosecutor who arrested him is currently inside the congregation, and the judge who arrested him is now inside the congregation. Those who gave this information to Mr. Davutoglu are now inside the congregation. Likewise, Mr. Davutoglu made this statement: See -- we're looking at the days when the solution process was completed -- in the following months, the solution process would not have ended if two of our officers hadn't been killed. So the coupters have come up with a plan so that we can kill two cops, give this intel to Davutoglu. Let's find three poor Kurdish teenagers, throw them in, let's say they're responsible. Let's say they're responsible. Let's start the war. And we've lost 10,000 people. Is this a plot? We've made a motion to investigate the contents of this, so why didn't you accept it?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0246par0772	Didn't Kandil tell you anything about that? Has there been no explanation from the Kandil?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0245par0773	We've made a motion to investigate October 6th, 7th, so why didn't you accept it? We've made a motion to investigate with him, why didn't you accept it?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0246par0775	What explanation came from the Kandil, and from there, and from there? Can you tell me what statement Kandil made from that stand?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0245par0776	Come on, let's join hands and find out who's underneath all this shit, guys. As long as we can't get it off, we'll have more socks on our heads.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0247par0778	Thank you, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0246par0779	You're the ones who knit the sock.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0248par0780	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0247par0781	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0248par0782	Just for the record. Mr. Paylan, at least to Davutoglu, the solution process would not have ended if our 2 police had not been martyred. He stated that he had said that he had been tricked in some way. We are in parliament, another HDP speaker said at another time that in fact Davutoglu had made statements much earlier that he had acted in autumn, in October, with the determination to finish the solution process -- long before the sea.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0249par0783	That's right, that's right.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0250par0784	If you tie them together, it'll be true.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0248par0785	Now, taking the words of Davutoglu and making up his own stories is not the right assessment.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0249par0786	They were just looking for an excuse.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0248par0787	Whatever he said, it's the right to look down and judge it, that's one. Second: Where is the PKK, Mr. Paylan, where is your attitude towards the PKK? How important. I wish you had an attitude. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0251par0791	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0252par0792	Mr. President, I'd like to say a few words for the record.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0251par0793	Here you go, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0252par0794	As Mr. Bostanci put it, the people they call "the terrorist organization" are currently under arrest and are defending them for now. I mean, I don't get it.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0253par0795	I'm not defending them, Mr. President. Mrs. Agers, please understand what I'm saying.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0252par0796	He's defending the arrests right now, saying it wasn't done. The PKK is not in power right now, not here. We are not authorized to make a speech or criticism or an assessment on behalf of the PKK.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0254par0798	How can you not be critical? You're not a political party?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0252par0799	And if there had been such a thing, then they would have been spoken to. But in this particular process, we asked for an opening to every issue regarding the Ceylannar incident and other incidents in the past, and we brought the motions to investigate it over and over again; let's form a commission from four political parties under the roof of parliament, expose the case of Ceylanpınar, the earlier Suruç. Now, Mr. Idris Baluken, our Deputy Director of the Group, has said these things over and over again here, bringing the motion to investigate the establishment of the commission to this parliament over and over again, and speaking here. Right now, the people who did this didn't answer and the research commission wasn't set up, but İdris Baliken is being held hostage in Kandira Prison because he said so.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0255par0801	Along with the beggars.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0252par0802	I now submit this to the public agenda of all Turkey and to the public conscience of all Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0256par0804	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Mr. Demirel, you've just used a sentence, we don't have the authority to speak for the PKK here. You said. A slip of the tongue, I presume, sir? So you and other lawmakers are representatives of the people, you came here with the people's votes, so the people, the voters, have given you the authority to talk about everything. I think it's a slip of the tongue.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0252par0806	I didn't say anything about the PKK... We've explained what we're saying here in accordance with the people's demands, Mr. President. We say that this situation must be revealed, no matter who was done by it. Right now, we're talking to whoever's in power, and we're talking to him about it, and we're saying that he needs to make it happen and expose it.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0257par0807	Are you criticizing the PKK or not?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0256par0808	Well, thank you, Mr. Ironel. 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account The third speaker on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group is Diyarbakır MP Alton Tan. Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0258par0858	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I would like to present to you on behalf of our group my views on the Transport Ministry in the 2017 budget. Dear friends, I'd like to start with a scene. You know, there was a heart-breaking fire last week in Aladağ district of Adana, and 11 of our 12 children lost their lives. But believe me, there was perhaps a more painful view of this issue, as these funerals were taken to their village, there was no road, and there was footage of those poor villagers pushing the ambulance. And here's the best indication of why desperate, corrupt, impossible, economically miserable people took refuge in these dorms, and here's the ambulance on that road, and the images of the villagers pushing it. Now, this landline issue has been debated since 1950, since the Democratic Party's rule. Is Turkey's landline policy correct or not? Should we put more weight on the train, on the sea roads, or should we encourage these land routes to the end of American politics after 1950, which began with Marshall's help? Dear friends, there's been a lot of talk about this, but there's a very clear picture, so to speak carefully in this ten minutes: the railways have been neglected in Turkey, the roads have been cleared. It's opened right, it's opened wrong, we'll talk about them. Of course, one of the most important claims of the current government, or one of its success stories, is the story of returning to the railroads. Dear friends, it's true that there was a fast train built in Turkey for Konya, for example, that the Istanbul line was a fast train work, even though it was missing, but once again, when we look at this graph, when we look at the land roads and railway graph, the railways are still far behind the Western standards or Japanese standards. In the same way, when these fast train projects were being done, unfortunately -- so I'll tell you why later -- Yozgat, Sivas, Erzurum, the Kars line was weighed down. Let it be given, all of our brothers and sisters, I wish they could build a train as far away as the remotest places, but an Izmir line, an Adana line, and the lines that would go from there to Habur. So in investment programs, the project has been left behind. Of course, Mr. Prime Minister Erzincan, our current Minister of Transport is from Kars. One invests in one's own territory, and you have to respect that. I wish every congressman could invest in his territory as much as he can, but when he gets the power, the needs of the country, the main arteries, the essential, the important, the essential order of the country, without being surprised. Dear friends, again, as far as roads go, one of the most important success stories in power is a double road, but believe me, the Diyarbakir-Mardin double road is the fifth time, dear friends, is the fifth time. I'm 58 years old, and since my mind's been cut off, there's been a road to Diyarbakir-Mardin for fifty-four, fifty-five years. And the last double road, I'm going to say again, has been dismantled and rebuilt for the fifth time. First part by piece, then part by piece, and then the other side is being ripped out, and the last time it's a hot mixture, which is the fifth time it's been dismantled and done again for what we call the "beton asphalt" study. This country doesn't have that kind of money, it doesn't have that kind of wealth. I mean, let's support every good thing that's been done, but we can't afford to waste so much money, and we can't afford to waste so much effort. Again, dear friends, the third bridge was finished in two years at work, finished in three years. Again, the Bursa Osman Vezi Bridge was finished in a very short time. But looking back, the Ankara-Adana Highway Niğde-Ankara, which connects one Adana, Mersin, and an entire Southeast Anatolian, coast to Ankara, Istanbul, has not been finished for years. I mean, why isn't it over? Why hasn't the government, for example, finished a bridge, the third bridge of the strait, the Bursa Osman Gazi Bay Pass Bridge, and yet, for example, this Niğde-Ankara highway? Again, why is Ankara-Izmir, one of Turkey's most important arteries, not going as fast as expected? Again, in the same way, dear friends, the highway that came all the way to Urbana stopped at Habur. We came here several times last semester, when Mr. Bululi was Minister of Lightning Transport, where we did not pass this talk -- this is the fourth budget -- the CEO of the Last Roads. Exactly, the current Urbana-Habur double path can be considered almost parallel, so in some places, it brought a new highway project up and down to 20 kilometers, up to 5 kilometers, up to 3 kilometers -- in Nusaybin, in an approaching route; Diyarbakır is out of commission. And even though we have repeatedly claimed -- that this current double road is almost as high as the highway standard -- you have to pull it up -- even though we said we had alternative projects drawn up -- so last semester Batman AKP MP Ziver Özdemir Bey also set up a project, Mehmet Simsek Bey, even jokingly, said, "If this project doesn't pass near Batman-Diyarbakir's line, don't be afraid, it won't happen." Mr. Mehdi Eker, Mr. Kutbetttin Arzu -- and these are the friends of the Minister -- we've discussed these issues, that's for sure. Although they said we couldn't get past a General Manager of Highways, and they said, "This is a so-called technical thing that we didn't get across until 1966 -- my father was a highway driver, despite his allegations that he was working in Diyarbakır Highway Regional Directorate" -- none of the five or six claims that he made, not just to make that project his own way, went all the way to Kerboran. The Diyarbakır connection is 80 kilometers, so you're already on your way to Iraq to Mardin, and you're on your way to Urbana, so there's no need to use it anymore. Dear friends, besides, for example, Cizre, Şırnak tunnels are not finished; they are still not finished, they have been going on for years, they haven't finished. The Bingöl-Diyarbakir road is not over; the sixth, the seventh, it is not over. Diyarbakır freeways -- the most we're concerned about -- were tendered four years ago, a four-stage circuit road, ring-shaped; a quarter of which opened for service a few years ago, the second quarter, or second part, did not end for four years. The Batman-Mardin connection, and from there, the Bingol, the Bingol-Elasic connection, their projects are still not fully complete, they haven't even made the tender. And these are waiting, even though we've talked so many times. Again, in the roads of Kızıltepe, Çınar, Omarli and Viranşehir -- although I followed them on a one-on-one project -- dear friends were unable to come to the tender stage. One of the most routes we've followed is the Midyat freeway, 26 kilometers. Two days before I arrived here, I went back to Diyarbakir, looked at projects, came back to the Minister as a scholar; although we had asked Mr. Bululi Yıldırım, our Transport Minister at that time, the Midyat circuit road -- 26km-project has not been finished for two and a half years. And it's said that these things don't happen immediately, as you know; they have ethics, procedures, paths they pass. But I will tender the same government crossing on March 18th. So, how do you end all this procedure in three months, five months, how do you end it? That means it happens when asked, dear friends. We want this Midyat freeway and the other freeways to happen as soon as possible. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0259par0871	Thank you, Mr. Tan. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the fourth speaker is Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 18 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0260par0876	Dear friends, as part of the budget bill of 2017, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources budget. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, before I move on to energy, while our Minister of Communications is here... there's something coming to me today from News-SEN. You know, dear friends, after July 15th, many public servants were dismissed and a significant number of them were returned to their duties after a mistake. However, there are 51 members who have been suspended or expelled, and so far one has not been reinstated. There are other public employees. Mr. Secretary: Did PTT employees do this coup?..... we need to get our friends back on duty as soon as possible. There's been a mistake, and I'm asking you to correct this mistake as soon as possible. When it comes to energy, dear friends, energy in the modern world is one of the most vital needs of our lives. There should be no problem with this public presentation. However, an understanding that is free of public interest, completely focused on profit ambition is the root source of the problems that we are experiencing right now. At the beginning of the most important problems with energy, it has been highlighted by an external addiction. Dear friends, as of today, we are 93% dependent on oil products, 99 percent on natural gas. We make 55 percent of our energy imports from Russia, and the rest from Iran and Azerbaijan. Nor does it seem possible to supply the amount of gas from Russia with another alternative in a short time. Turkey is the world's fifth place in natural gas imports, the 13th in the world in oil imports, the 8th in the world in coal imports, the 13th in the world in the imports of petrokok; and the 11th in the world in energy imports. All of this shows how bad our energy report card really is. In fact, it's like a curved camel all over the place, which report card is good? We're like students with double stitches, dear friends. The government stays in class every year. Last year, we've been trying to explain how we're going to deal with energy policies and external addiction, but unfortunately we don't have a government that listens to opposition. He has a very good saying: Whatever you tell him, it's as far as the other person understands." he says. Dear friends, oil and natural gas are not just fuel in today's world, fuel in our automobile, heat source in our combo; it has become the most important economic, political, even military force in the world's politics. In this context, the AKP government does not have the luxury of making political, diplomatic moves on energy sources that we have largely imported, such as oil, natural gas. In this regard, rational and peaceful policies are needed for the benefit of the people of Turkey and the region. Dear friends, in fact, after the crash of the plane in November, it became clear how important external dependency was. At that time, Russian Deputy Defence Minister Antonov, in fact, said invincible things for Turkey, for Mr. President and his son, and was informed that he had co-operated in the oil trade with ISIS. Now I think, dear friends, today we depend on 55 percent of Russia, but today we go to Russia every day and give concessions to Russia. Are these people paying for Antonov's threats to us and his diet for the plane crash? Mr. Secretary would have to explain this if he were here, but Mr. Secretary isn't here. Dear friends, the growing demand for energy today has increased the importance of climate change, the intense use of fossil resources, and the fact that these resources will be exhausted in the near future, renewable energy sources and energy efficiency. We know that the damage that fossil resources do to the environment and to the human being is clearly known. The effective and efficient use of renewable energy sources is environmentally friendly in solving problems. While renewable energy technologies are being made progress worldwide, unfortunately, the AKP's government has ignored this, the geothermal is completely forgotten, and the wind and solar energy are not being used at all. Dear friends, if there is one for the government, then there is an attempt to step up the hees as a source of energy and as a nuclear source. Today, the HES number of projects, especially on the border with Iran and the Kurdistan federal zone, is 2,500 projects, which are expected to continue to be completed by 2023, and they are both doing natural damage and burying deposits, faith values, historical values. Dear friends, their lives are thirty, thirty, five years. Thirty-thirty, five years, 2,000, 2,500 HES is unexplainable. Dear friends, even if these are completed, only 5 percent of the energy supply will be met. We're only doing this for 5 percent. In fact, the government has made it clear that the aim of these HESEs was not to produce energy. What was his confession? These are security dams. He said there were dams for security purposes, and with these security dams, our nature is being plundered, causing thousands, hundreds of thousands of trees to be cut down. Dear friends, especially Hakkari, Dersim, Batman, Şırnak provinces, most of these dams -- as I said -- are the security dams. Another energy source the government insists on is nuclear. If the Minister were here, we'd want to ask him. In his thesis, in his doctoral thesis -- about his doctoral thesis -- and today, you know, WikiLeaks and RedHack have been exposed to a lot of difficulties, but I'm passing him by -- what happened in his thesis when he defended the importance of renewable energy sources? Dear friends, everyone knows that nuclear is a disaster. Look, after the Fukushima accident and Chernobyl, countries quickly began to give up this energy, that it was an energy source. I'd like to give you a few examples of the world. For example, dear friends, the German government shut down 7 power plants and announced that it would shut down all nuclear plants by 2022. Switzerland has cancelled three new nuclear reactor plans and announced it will shut down its nuclear power plants by 2034. Again, Japan has completely cancelled the construction of new reactors. In the referendum held in Italy, 95 per cent of the people said no to nuclear. Dear friends, it's possible to replicate these samples. You know, the government insists on making nuclear plans in Mersin Akkuyu and Sinop. According to a study conducted in Mersin, 86 per cent of Mersin's people say they are against nuclear. The CHP's orator, Sinoplu orator, has just stated that the people of Sinop are opposed to nuclear. Dear friends, why do these people, who call it national will at every turn, really insist on nuclear power? Isn't it considered a national will that the people say I don't want nuclei? Is national will only perceived as the election of the AKP? Is that how we see it? Dear friends, the Russian company Rosatom has a criminal record contract for Mersin Akkuyu. Look, the Russian federal prosecutor's office has launched an investigation into this company, and the reason for this investigation is that the company is charged with corruption and the sale of inferior materials for nuclear reactors, and the director of the company is in custody. Dear friends, we all know what it's like to have a nuclear leak. Dear friends, as a result of this nuclear, we know that the waste that causes serious diseases such as plutonium, cesium, iodine, and strontium has been produced, and in the deal with Russia, we have no say in the establishment, control of the plant, or even the determination of those who will work there, the Russians are in full command. Dear friends, if the Minister of Energy were here, I'd like to ask him a question. You know, the report by the Atomic Energy Foundation is Mersin 1. The Ministry is not giving the report to NGOs even though it is a court order for NGOs. It's coming and going, dear friends. Remember, when we lost 301 miners in the Soma disaster, Energy Minister Taner Yildiz had to be there for at least two days wearing white scrubs. But you know there was a disaster at this time in Shirvan district of Siirt. Our current Minister went like a tourist, which only followed with binoculars from a distance and returned. Now, how this can happen, how this will be met, is really in need of explanation. We know that the Minister is effective and competent, and we know that he's even influential in public, and we hear that he's actually working as a parallel prime minister, and we hear that. Another important problem during the Minister's term, dear friends, is the matter of the missing fugitive. Under a law issued in the Turkish Grand National Assembly in 2013, the missing fugitive, the Electric Market Foundation, was controversial, and the judiciary ruled that the missing fugitive costs cannot be taken from the public. What did this government do? He immediately brought this judgment to nullify it, where the decision of the judiciary was closed through a law, and the people's way of trial was blocked, the bills were hidden, and now your chance to appeal to him has been eliminated by this law. Dear friends, we're aware that we're in the top ranking of countries that sell electricity to the public at the highest price, but the electricity goes out every day in the region. In the simplest case of nature, in the rain, in the snow, electricity goes out. For days, there were places where the power wasn't given. You are all aware of the situation in Batman's villages this summer. For days, a citizen's electricity was cut off, and a citizen's harvest was completely prevented in the field. Dear friends, right now this country -- perhaps not from the palace, but -- is on the verge of a very serious crisis. The main cause of the economic crisis is political instability. What did the government say when they went to the November 1st election? So, dear friends, I ask you: is there stability now? Can people see in front of you? In this country, three sides are surrounded by seas. We say, "The three sides are surrounded by crises; the political crisis, the economic crisis, the diplomatic crisis are at our door." Political chaos brings economic chaos. The investor's on the run, he doesn't even want to come here. Every time the ministers speak, the Prime Minister, the President, the exchange rates are increasing rapidly. Dear friends, there is no investment in this country. Why isn't he coming? If you were an investor, dear friends, when investing in a country, you would do a feasibility study first, where you can invest? Well, let's not say our country, let's say a manufacturer who wants to invest in the country of A, if a lot of cities are burned down, crying every day, the forces of the military attempted a coup, while the government has declared social peace and peace on the basis of social reconciliation, up, up, up, up. Every opposition he sees, he puts them in jail with a coup d'état, and he keeps putting them away. As you can see every day on the MPs, this arrest swings like the sword of Damocles. Tens of thousands of workers have been removed from prison, suspended from their duties, and the KHK is being brought out over KHK. Trust in the judiciary has fallen to 3%. Co-chairs of the third largest party, the group's vice presidents, were taken hostage. It's a hostage situation, and it's definitely, really not supposed to be discussed. Because, look, the Deputy Speaker of Turkey has been treated simply in Germany, and we have explained that we reject it. Our co-chairs are being prevented from participating in law enforcement activities. Many visitors from Europe are unable to visit our party managers, parliamentary co-chairs. The arrest of our co-chairs is against the law, but I do know that what was done was done in a very, very political environment. Dear friends, Ahmet friend, of course, when I have two minutes of my time... I'd like to say a few words about the tobacco market. Unfortunately, when the government says alcohol and tobacco market, it comes to alcohol and tobacco. That triggers the leak. He can't sell the manufacturer as he triggers the fugitive, the manufacturer already has a thousand problems, and these problems need to be resolved as soon as possible. First of all, dear friends, the only way out of this chaotic environment is to sit down and talk peace again, peace again. But we see that the AKP government is a wall against us, hearing, deaf and blind. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0261par0908	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. Now it's time for Van MP Adem Gaveri. Here you are, Mr. Geveri.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0262par0912	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. ..... [[x]] Dear President, honorable friends, I have a request for the Speakership: I would like to use my native language here because I am more comfortable using Kurdish in my native language, Kurdish, under the obligation of international rights, within the framework of all principles of humanity and Islam and conscience and morality.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0261par0915	Mr. Gaveri, now, the official language is Turkish. In addition, you address all of the General Assembly and all of our citizens, all of our citizens watching television. By using Kurdish, you will address only our Kurdish-speaking, understanding citizens. So please speak to the official Turkish language.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0262par0916	Mr. President, I protest and protest this sanction. [[Then don't talk about the AK PARTY lines.]] This, of course, is for the sake of the days when I will speak in my native language in a free House, where we will, of course, continue the main language struggle.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0263par0919	How's that supposed to be freedom? Keep it outside.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0264par0920	There's no more freedom than that.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0262par0921	However, all the investigations and proceedings that have been launched against me are due to my Kurdish speech, which are false, translated incorrectly, but unfortunately, there is no interpreter in the Grand Assembly of the Republic of Turkey. What law, what conscience, what international agreement does that fit into?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0265par0922	The official language is Turkish. The official language is in Turkish, the President says.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0266par0923	The official language is Turkish, there is no second person, only Turkish.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0262par0924	I offer it to your conscience, to your morality, and to the will of the Lord of all Being.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0267par0925	Mr. Gaveri, this is not an imposition. I reminded you of the Constitution and the rules of the Civil Law.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0262par0926	No constitution...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0267par0927	Also, that's the way it's been done so far. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0262par0929	No law or Constitution human, Islamic, conscientious...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0268par0930	What Constitution is it in?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0262par0931	...out of moral and international principles and not above.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0269par0932	You swore an oath to the Constitution!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0262par0933	You all know...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0270par0934	There's no such talk in any country.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0262par0935	...as many of the hundreds of lawmakers are Kurds, there are Kurdish citizens that are equivalent to the millions of Turkish Republic of Turkey, and many of them don't speak Kurdish. It's not the language of a few ordinary people. That's why I'm not saying this for any polemic purposes. I don't use Turkish as easily as my native language here. Unfortunately, since we can't use it, as we don't express our thoughts so easily...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0270par0936	We'll figure it out, you talk.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0262par0937	...to us on a conscience, it's also a shenanigans. I'd like to extend this to your mercy again.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0270par0938	You speak Turkish, we'll understand. It's okay.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0262par0939	On this occasion, dear friends, since I will not be able to make my speeches comfortable, I will continue my reading through the text. But earlier, unfortunately, our arrested co-chairs and deputies and, again, all of our co-chairs, I offer my greetings and respects, especially from here, especially from Shivan Perver, in duets with Mr. President. I'm afraid we'll probably be there very soon. .....
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0271par0941	That's not the way to do it! There's no such thing!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0262par0942	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been on the road to removing the AKP's power from Kurdish politics, which has been lost daily in the field since the June 7th elections and has suffered new defeats. For this reason, using the court's justice and security forces, the HDP has taken the DBP politicians hostage and, along with the will of the Kurdish people, have lost the will of other opposing parties. As of today, the AKP, which has taken over the ten HDP MPs elected by the legitimate votes of Kurdish and Turkish peoples, 55 DBP co-chairs and hundreds of party managers, hostage the AKP's ruling, the Kurdish people and all the opposition to AKP, has defeated and ignored the will of all the parties. Until yesterday, it will be history as a tragic and exemplary example that people who have come to power by expressing the will of the nation, doing victim literature, and using the victimicism of a large percentage of society to create a greater victimism and more bloody consequences, and that they will be destroyed and will be destroyed, and that you will go again in the budget talks a year ago. Those who underestimate us when we say you are going to go, unfortunately today, are facing the same fate again. All these illegalities today, they try to fool the public on their way to the presidential referendum, to keep racist, fascist masses alive with all their motivations. However, one thing the AKP's government has forgotten is that the Kurds have fought honorably for over a hundred years, ignoring the will of the nation and trying to suppress Kurdish politics through pressure, fear, blackmail, and at the same time to absorb and deliver through violence. The Kurdish people have now carried out their righteous case, fighting in all this pressure, threats, blackmail, and violence, and will continue to fight with greater determination, with greater determination, with dignity. We will not bow to the pressures and intimidation of power. No matter who it's against, we're not going to back down from any legal and organizational struggle in the face of injustice and unlawful conduct. There's a big mistake in trying to trap us within the boundaries set by the President and the government, align us like allies. It'll come out sooner or later who wants to intimidate us for what purpose. Those who are undermining the law today will surely answer to the people tomorrow against the law they have ignored. Remember, justice comes sooner or later. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, first we need to ask who and what this budget is prepared for. As we have seen and understood in the budget preparation process, poor people, different social communities, trade organisations, workers, unions, producers, etc., were left out of the budget process this year as well as every year; the basis for consultation and democratic participation has been completely ignored. The demands and needs for the 2017 budget spending discussed in Parliament have not been taken into account by the majority of the people who remain out of co-operation capital circles, bosses and supporters. The AKP, which came to power over political chaos following the 2001 crisis, showed its capital friend at every turn over 15 years beyond the practices of previous authorities. He transferred public resources through incentive packages to bosses, collaborative capital environments and supporters, condemning large populations to unemployment and unfortunately poverty. As for the process of resolving Kurdish policy, the honorable lawmakers are distracting President Erdogan and AKP government's inconsistencies and the conservative sector of hypocritical policies in connection with the falling Russian aircraft and the subsequent events of Syrian and Iraqi governance, covering up the normalisation of Israel and the case of Blue Marmara, as well as on children who have been sexually abused and on many other issues. On this occasion, we, especially the AKP government, which is based on a conservative basis, need to be made absolutely clear by conservative masses, especially Islamic communities. Otherwise, along with this victory, they will, of course, have to answer again in the presence of the Lord. I hope that they will be able to deliver this account -- of course -- in order to do so -- in order to do so -- in order to do so, they will be able to perform this trial that the Lord of all the world knows. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0272par0951	Thank you, Mr. Geveri.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0273par0952	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0272par0953	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0273par0954	The preacher said that the AK PARTY came to power by making victim literature, that we were capital friends... The intention here is not that factories grow in the country, but that we transfer to allies... He's made clear taunts by mentioning the name of our party.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0272par0955	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0273par0959	Mr. President, we're denying all claims made by the prosecutor here and all the claims he's made, and all the allegations he's just made by another criminal. I want to make this clear once and for all. First of all, there's the fight against terrorism, there's the fight against terrorists. Velev who makes AK PARTI dams for security reasons, Velev, which is a reason, which makes roads, why does that bother you?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0274par0961	We talked about it not being done.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0273par0962	What's your problem with dams? What's your problem with security? What's your problem with the road being built?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0275par0963	Perimeter massacre.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0273par0964	How eco-friendly of you! Dear lawmakers, look, the testimony used by the group's vice presidents here is not a edible statement. We do not have the authority to make a speech or criticism or an assessment on behalf of the PKK.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0276par0966	No, we're not.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0273par0967	The director warns: "Did you make a slip of the tongue?" Yeah, well, that's your jurisdiction, that's all you have to talk about. The more instructions you're given, the more you can talk, the more you have no authority.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0277par0969	You've got ISIS...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0273par0970	Don't talk about democracy. Don't come in here and be an apostle of democracy, not an apostle of democracy. The more they say, the more they move.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0277par0971	Why don't you tell me about the angry kids, tell the angry kids a little bit?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0273par0972	Dear friends, they have no will. Here, look, the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) -- the Vice President -- can't say a word, and then here the apostle of democracy is cut off. Don't show off here, guys, don't show off!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0278par0973	You're doing it, you're doing it!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0279par0974	You're the one showing off, you!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0273par0975	First you'll call the terrorist a terrorist, you'll call the PKK a terrorist, you'll make your position clear. And don't say another word about the congresses at our party because it's obvious what's going on with you. The party boards have decided who will be what and what will be in our congress. Don't come in here with no will, and stop being an apostle of democracy.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0280par0977	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0281par0978	The chief will decide.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0273par0979	Look here, look, see? You don't have the authority.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0282par0980	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0283par0981	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0282par0982	Mr. President, the conversations we've had...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0284par0983	Then take out Naci Hodja's.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0285par0984	Do you have the authority? Do you have the authority?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0286par0985	Just a second, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0287par0986	Guys, wait a minute...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0288par0987	You are in charge here, you are in charge.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0286par0988	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0287par0989	It's the one that completely distorts the conversations that we've had, the one that leads in different directions.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0289par0990	How do you twist it? Get out of here!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0287par0991	...that you're acting with an approach and an understanding...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0290par0992	Which sentence did he twist, Mr. Ironel?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0291par0993	Mr. Mehmet, look, please, speak properly, please. Don't say that, I'll answer you in the same manner. It's a shame! Get out of here. What does that mean to a woman? What kind of sentence is that?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0292par0994	Why? They say everything here, they say everything. Why are you being so positive?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0293par0995	On why we don't allow roads to be made, and on the basis of a question asked by Mr. Bostanci, who is in power...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0294par0996	You're in charge here, you're in charge.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0293par0997	Who are we going to criticize here, who are we dealing with?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0295par0998	What do you mean, we're authorized to...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0293par0999	So we're dealing with the AKP. The AKP is in power. We'll do our criticism to the AKP, and we'll do all our evaluations to power, government and state. That's what we're dealing with right now. It's in an approach and understanding that's out of context. I demand a word of bullying according to 69.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0296par1000	You do not have the authority to speak on behalf of the PKK. He made an assessment on the matter. Do you want to talk about that, too?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0297par1001	But you're not going to praise the PKK or the terrorists there. You're not going to praise terrorists.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0298par1002	Here's the report, right here.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0297par1003	You can fight back, you won't praise terrorists there.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0299par1004	President, now, let's be very clear.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0300par1005	Here you are, Mr. Demirel.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0299par1006	Now, while he's expressing himself, Mr. Bostanci told us to make a transfer to the PKK. So that's not going to happen.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0301par1007	Yeah, he does it to the PKK, he doesn't do it to you. Why do you take it personally?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0300par1008	Here you go, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0299par1009	Mr. Ahmet will take it without teasing, I'll take it after my place.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0301par1010	Why do you take offense? He's giving criticism to the PKK. You don't have to take it personally.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0302par1011	Answer him. He said.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0299par1012	No, he asked, he asked, he asked.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0301par1013	Yeah, well, you can argue, he's fine, but don't do it in the name of terrorism.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0302par1014	You're our opposition, our opposition to you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0303par1015	Mr. Lightning, come in, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0304par1017	Thank you, Mr. President. It has not been two hours since you said that you have destroyed the Constitution, which you have sworn on, Mr. Mush. What did you say? Look, you talked to your party about living, running, putting together three forces. After that, when we criticised this, why did you remove my speech from the context? Legislative, executive, party one for you, put the palace on top of it, there's no separation of powers. Our friend was very clear. We, see, our critics are focused on the practices of political power, and therefore we criticize political power. Because of the work and transactions of political power, we are not dealing with the unnecessary need to target another structure or organisation, and we stand by our promise.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0305par1020	You have no authority.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0304par1021	You're here first... you're talking about authority.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0306par1022	Who's the party for political power?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0304par1023	For the past few months, you've been able to find criticism of the structure that you called those angry children and made them innocent and entered into hundreds and thousands of people's blood. You haven't criticised him for years!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0307par1024	Get out of here!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0308par1025	Get out of here!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0307par1026	Get out of here!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0309par1027	They were angry kids! They're falling, they're dropping.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0310par1028	You're lying, you're saying the wrong thing.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0307par1029	It's been that way all along.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0311par1030	Don't try to impress people here.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0312par1031	Then I'll tell you, I'm talking numbers. I'll tell you what I'm going to do next week at the Ministry of Economics, the number's out there, no comment needed.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0313par1032	You're lying, you're saying the wrong thing.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0312par1033	Look, six months from January 1, 2015 to June 30, 2015, the Ministry of Economics gave us information from TİK. Elitaş was then Minister of Economics. You exported $7 million while Akchakale and Tel Abyad, or Gre Spi, were in ISIS' hands, after the PYD seized it, it's been cut today; you're a business partner!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0314par1035	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0315par1036	You're just being rhetorical.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0312par1037	You're in business! Number, number!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0316par1038	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0317par1039	Don't lie and say the wrong thing.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0318par1040	Mr. Mush... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Congressmans, please, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0319par1043	Explain the $7 million.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0318par1044	Mr. Mush, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0320par1045	Mr. President, I'd like to mention my direct name...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0318par1046	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0321par1047	So nothing but lying to the public.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0322par1048	Then Elitaş is lying; Elitaş has given us the information, $7 million in trade...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0318par1049	Mr. Lightning, please, sir. Mr. Mush is on the stand, please, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0323par1052	Mr. President, in this country, the ruling AK PARTI is the most comprehensive operations of both Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and DAİSİSK. Prior to that, there were major operations against the PKK. Turkey is the country that performs the most important operations against this period, as the EPA has emerged. The operations currently conducted in Syria have also revealed what the EPA had been exposed to.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0324par1053	You're handing over time, taking over.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0323par1054	Look, there's something very clear here. No one gets involved in an effort to put words in different formats, to get out of here right, to justify themselves. [[Noises from HDP rows]] Dear friends, look, clearly he can't say a word to Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), he can't call a terrorist, he can't call a terrorist organization, he can't call a PKK a terrorist organization, he's been cut off from here. It's not like that, guys. It's not like that. We won't make you do it from this chair, we won't make you speak for the PKK. Look over there, he's clearly saying it. Is that even possible? Is that an expression? No one can use that statement in the Turkish Republic Assembly, my friends.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0324par1057	Bring your own reports.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0323par1058	You can't say those words here at the point of a terrorist organization that's killed our soldier, our police, who's been ambushed by traitors. You're going to call the terrorist organization a terrorist organization, if you're a political party, you're going to act like a political party, you're not going to make any sense.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0325par1059	You'll know your place, telling us that...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0323par1060	Dear MPs, the government is the government of the EC PARTY, and the EC PARTY authorities are history and history. What's more natural than saying that because he's out of the AK PARTY group? We've violated the Constitution from here, and we've violated the law, and he's trying to find a way out of it, or something.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0326par1061	All three party groups said the same thing.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0323par1062	Friends, since the AK PARTY is out of the group, the AK PARTY is in power. The law-walking-judgment is the same as it was before us now. There hasn't been any change here, the Constitution hasn't changed, but everyone knows and says the power of the EC PARTY and the AK PARTY government. Dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0327par1065	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0328par1066	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0327par1067	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0328par1068	Mr. President, without going into detail, we don't want you to have these things.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0327par1069	Now, Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0329par1070	The PKK says, "Don't kill." What else?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0330par1071	Told you what, sir?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0327par1073	Just a second, Mr. Lawmakers... Mr. Yıldırım, now, Mr. Mush has said a lot of things and brought them in and tied them to one last sentence. His earlier words were a criticism of the PKK's attitude towards you, and we don't make you say that.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0331par1075	Okay, amenna.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0327par1076	For what reason do you want words for bullying?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0331par1077	He threatened us, threatened us openly, and said, "We will not, we will not, we will not, we will not, we will not. "
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0327par1079	Oh, because of these sentences, in fact...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0331par1080	He threatened our group.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0332par1081	That's your job, that's your job.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0333par1082	Are you a lawyer for the PKK?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0334par1083	No, no, I mean, we'll do that. I don't think you want a word.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0335par1084	No, of course not.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0334par1085	So he's referring to you as something that doesn't belong to your group, or that you haven't expressed?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0335par1086	Exactly, yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0334par1087	I mean, you have to tell me that clearly.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0335par1088	Yeah, that's what I'm going to say.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0334par1089	So, he made a criticism against the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). If you tell me clearly, I promise.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0335par1090	Let him do it.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0334par1091	Say it loud and clear.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0335par1092	Okay, let him do it.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0334par1093	So, he showed you that you had no ties to terrorism, but that's what you're objecting to?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0335par1094	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0336par1095	Well, let him say it.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0337par1096	The president asks, "Who will you speak for?"
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0338par1097	Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0339par1099	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm being very frank with you. Looking back on the last three years of our party's way of doing politics in particular, it will be very clear that we, like the AKP, like the CHP and other political structures that do not exist in Parliament, want to make it very clear that violence, guns, blood, death will be declared out of the rights process, like other parties. But what we want is to be the same as any other party, which is different, so our methodology of getting guns and violence out of the right way is different from yours. On the matter of your destruction, until the last member is killed...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0340par1101	The last terrorist, not a member.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0341par1102	Not Ferdi, the last terrorist.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0339par1103	...and blood, death, that's what you're setting up.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0342par1104	You don't get a right to a gun.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0343par1105	Until the last terrorist dies.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0339par1106	We try to do so from the world's experience, especially from the experiences that the modern world puts in front of us.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0344par1107	This is terror, this is terror.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0339par1108	For two and a half years, the purpose of the photograph given by your party's officials or your two ministers, one group of your vice presidents, was related to that, as well. Taking advantage of his world experience, he wanted to solve a hundred-year-old social injury, especially outside the means of violence and weapons, without adding blood, death, destruction concepts.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0345par1109	Who dug the pits, the pits?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0346par1110	Tell me who's calling, who's looking for rights.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0339par1111	But I'm saying that you can't create anything other than this, even if you want to, because you have a limited number of words about the process of approaching a hundred years of problems.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0347par1112	You look in the mirror, in the mirror.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0346par1113	Tell me, is the PKK looking for rights or is the PKK looking for rights?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0339par1114	I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0348par1116	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0349par1117	Mr. President, excuse me, may I make a brief statement from my position?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0348par1118	Mr. Bostanci, I'll give you my word later, would you mind?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0349par1119	Aye, aye. 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0350par1166	On behalf of the Democratic Party of Rights, the sixth speaker is Siirt MP Besime Konca. Here you go, Mr. Konca.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0351par1169	Mr. President, I salute the General Assembly. In order to address the 2017 budget correctly, to get the right results, we need to discuss the market economy, theft, corruption in advance. Without clarifying this, we know that it is impossible to establish an economic budget based on human labor, human resources, respect for nature, and to discuss it and to develop Turkey in these conditions. If we're discussing the 2017 budget today, our Co-Chair Figen Yüksekdağ would have to be present at this General Assembly. You've both lost legislature activities and you've taken individual freedom and political identity hostage as the will of 6 million voters, and if Figen were here today, he would have made his speech. I think you'll tolerate my co-chair for a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0352par1174	What the hell!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0353par1175	Who, what message is he gonna give here? We can't accept such a thing.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0352par1176	Mr. President, please step in.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0353par1177	What's it gonna be? What's he gonna say? What's he got to say here? Is he here to talk about terrorism or terrorists?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0354par1178	Mr. President, step in. Mr. Konca, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0355par1180	You got something to say, you talk.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0356par1181	You want to play something on the tablet, but you can't tell. Please, sir...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0357par1182	It will be understood if they listen, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit03spe0356par1184	Mr. Konca, you can't tell. Please, sir... I'm taking a 35-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0356par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Members of parliament, before taking a break from the merger, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Besime Konca spoke on behalf of Siirt MP. Mr. Konca was trying to put something on the side of the microphone during his speech. In fact, I didn't realize what it was, so I asked Mr. Fehmi Kübçü, our clerk, if he was trying to put up a photo. And then we realized that he was trying to put the iPad there, but the conversation that he wanted to listen to from the iPad wasn't heard in any way. We've looked at previous applications, and we've seen that there's no such application in the past. In an exceptional example, we've seen that this kind of listening is not reflected in the transcripts. So only a video was shown. A recording in the form of a video has been reported. So if the goal is to project a conversation into the transcripts, then there's no reflection. I understand my fellow MPs, they want to announce the voice of the arrested MPs, especially the co-Chairs, to the General Assembly in a way, which I understand, but there are rules of the Assembly, which, of course, speak to them. Yes, I will now promise Mr. Besime Konca, eight minutes of his speech, two minutes of his time. Mr. Konca...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0358par0010	Start over, President. He couldn't speak, President. He never spoke.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0356par0011	Mr. Konca will begin a speech.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0358par0012	Ten minutes... It's never been discussed, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0356par0013	I see, maybe he stopped talking about taunts and rants. He'll start a conversation, and I'll give him an extension if necessary. Here you go, Mr. Konca.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0359par0016	Mr. President, I don't think it's fair that you interrupt me on the stand according to Article 66 of the Civil Code. When I started speaking, I explained that if our co-Chair were here, he would have used his right to speak. We published his speech by making this assessment of our co-Chair, Mr. Milahattin Demirtaş. Now, we're friends who still have immunity from current legislation, co-chairs, and congressmen are friends. However, a mindset that says that they shouldn't be in, which says that they shouldn't be in, but also doesn't tolerate listening to a one-minute budget speech at our group meeting. Until our friends are here, we'll keep our friends on the agenda, whether it's in his voice or with his photos, until we're here, until our friends can carry out their legislature activities, our friends will be among us on these platforms. You have to accept that.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0360par0021	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0361par0022	There is no such procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0362par0023	Mr. President, tomorrow I'm going to bring a movie, and I'm going to show a movie here.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0363par0024	Mr. Konca, please continue your conversation, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0364par0025	It's already over.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0365par0026	He's out of the question, Mr. President. He needs to act according to the Civil Code. He needs to talk about the budget.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0366par0027	Why don't you sit down?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0367par0028	Mr. Konca, please continue your conversation.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0368par0029	Yes, our Co-Chair's speech is over, and if this Parliament is to be democratic, he has to listen to it. Now, I have a say in the budget of the Department of Mines and Study Search. December 4th was the Day of the Miners of the World, and on December 4th, 16 people lost their lives in the mine murder of Siirt Shirvan. Two were still under the cave-in, unremoved, and twenty-three days passed. The mining area is a business area with the most severe working conditions in Turkey. The government considered the work murders of Shirvan to be God's will and tied them to the rain. No man's business, no man's work, no man's accident, is by God's decree, nor by rain. The measures in these areas must be taken by ministries that depend on it. In the murder of a worker in Shirvan, as there was no action against the murder of a mine worker, four years ago, those who were guilty of the Afshin-Elbistan mine of Marash were given authority and were assigned to Shirvan. Nine people are still buried there, and that office is a grave to those people. The 21st trial of the murder in the Afşin-Elbistan migration has been seen in the past months, and this court has continued for four years, and it is still clear, it has not been revealed who is responsible, and the people responsible are running the mine in Shirvan. So we said, if we're going to create the right budget, we're going to have to discuss these corruptions, these illegalities, these numbers. From November 2002 to November 2016, 18,287 people died during the AKP administrations during the job killings, 18,287. The account of these murders, the people who were murdered at this point... who either acted with honor in those processes... or resigned, depending on the ministries, on the authorities, on the administrations... or on the judiciary, will answer for it, but none of this has ever happened. We remember every day and always remember 260 people who were murdered in the July 15 coup attempt. If we say it's a coup, if we say it's a murder... which is run by the government, whichever task force, which is under the administration's control, if people are dying, if people are being killed, then the government is responsible for those murders, he is responsible for those massacres, he has to answer for that. Now, Turkey is number one in Europe in business killings, and it is ranked third in the world. And these are the statistics and figures made by civil society institutions in different ways. Flexible working conditions, the last law of slavery, given the fact that there is an unregistered labor situation again, are more and more exposed to the criminality of these figures, these murders, and how common it is to work under improper circumstances. On the occasion of the Day of the 4th of December Earth Miners, I cherish and honor these 18,287 workers who have been murdered, and we say that the lives under the cave-in must be removed as soon as possible, and that is the responsibility of the government. There is no question that 1,816 workers -- not a year -- have lost their lives in the last 11 months without us mentioning these 14 years -- have been exposed or sued, questioned, or made clear about the perpetrator of any of them. It's clear that budgets for him will go to Ranta, that budgets will go to protect capital, that the established budget has an underground, aboveground, nature, geography, and is medium, and Ermenek is still in the middle, and Soma is still in the middle -- as we've established -- is still in the middle, the murder of Elbia, Afsin is in the middle, and no authority has answered its responsibility for them. Politically, it will not reveal how well the AKP reality is doing in terms of budgets, economies and figures. You explain these numbers for the runt, you don't do these numbers for the rise of Turkey, for the growth of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0369par0039	Mr. Konca, I'll give you an additional minute.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0368par0040	The Prime Minister explained in Russia: "I don't know international relations, social sciences, I make roads, I build bridges, I do other things. " Yes, AKP is actually good at building, but let the AKP know that if the foundation of the building is not solid, the building is not solid. The AKP lives in fear of a party that will be shaken and destroyed every day when the earthquake strikes. The foundation of the AKP is also rotten. When you're wearing your national vision shirt... I wish I had time for the ESAM Turkey conferences, the 3rd edition of the ESAM Turkish conferences held by the late Erbakan. What did the AKP come out with, how did it become a party?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0370par0041	That's what people decide, people!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0368par0042	What shirt did he wear when he took off his national vision shirt? Which teacher did he turn his back on when he turned his back on a teacher?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0371par0043	Look at your shirt, your shirt!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0368par0044	Which teacher had a party with his prayers, his money, his staff? How did they do the coup d'état on June 7th?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0372par0045	We have given you the praise of Erbakan. You praise Erbakan. That is enough for us.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0368par0046	How did Davutoglu take his government on November 1st? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] How did he make a political coup on November 4th? All of this is your earthquake reality, and you're going to experience a political earthquake.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0373par0050	Thank you, Mr. Konca. Mr. Erhan, come in. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0374par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, the preacher just played a voice from the iPad on the stand, and before that, a congressman acted the same way. I think it's all terribly wrong. The bench is the minister's, the promised MP is expected to speak, so it is in no way appropriate to listen to someone else's voice or image here. Tomorrow, a congressman can make us listen to some voices that no one here wants to hear, show us the footage from there. So I don't think it's appropriate to allow such a thing in principle, regardless of its content. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0375par0058	Thank you, Mr. Master. Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0376par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, there's no way to accept the words of Mr. Master. It's not just anyone, it's not an ordinary person, it's a member of the legislature, just like me, like the Master, who has the same rights as you, and it's the co-Chair of the 3 ± larger group of Parliament, and we're talking about the person who's been taken out of their hands by a political coup, and I've just told you, we've never admitted that they're being independent of that kind of judgment or anything. This needs to be well known, or if it's not, here's what I'm saying, we've brought in any ordinary political comment and we haven't played any of our friends here either. I salute the entire General Assembly again.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0375par0063	Thank you. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0377par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, within the framework of the principle decisions we've taken before, the use of the bench is essential. Of course, here today, listening to the voices of the co-chairs of a party, the passing of the party now through a judicial process, perhaps in the framework of a human dimension, may seem to be understandable in this frame of mind, but we would like to stress that the use of the bench in all the following parliamentary talks is essential. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0378par0069	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0379par0072	Mr. President, thank you. We've just discussed it inside, and you've highlighted a fundamental element of those negotiations. There's a record of the character's conversations, it's written down, but there's no sound or narratives given by electronic devices, so there's also a legal problem. Above all, the question is whether such a practice can be allowed in principle, regardless of its content, its grounds. If we're going to do an app that allows the MPs to present different audiences from the podium with their iPad ability, we don't know what we're going to face tomorrow, and basically, not knowing what we're going to find out -- everyone can give their own reasons -- when we look at the Civil Charter, it's clearly being the property of the throne.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0378par0075	I'll turn on your microphone. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0379par0077	After the title of Article 60 of Article 60 has said: "No one can speak without pre-registering the name or taking the president's word during the session." Mr. Speaker came there taking your word and speaking to you; he must speak to himself. His speech, which he received permission to speak, is his own, according to 60. If you give someone else's speech here without permission in any way, and it doesn't go into the reports, its legal nature is unknown. It's not an appropriate situation. Tomorrow, other parties can use a similar method for other reasons. In this regard, it is in principle appropriate for us not to allow it, in terms of the safety of the House's work, to understand each other.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0378par0078	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0380par0079	Mr. President, I'm just saying for the record. I have experiences in the backward Parliament studies where people from Naci Bey's party go out with banners, listening to different voices in order to shut down the entire bench here. It's not the first time this has happened, it's the first. Secondly, if he wants to put an end to the present state of political power, just as our friends are being held hostage...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0381par0081	What a hostage!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0380par0082	I'm saying they'll be out, they'll be talking to themselves.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0382par0083	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. It's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0383par0085	What a hostage! They're under arrest for their crimes.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0384par0086	They're not hostages, they're prisoners!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0385par0087	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0386par0088	Mr. President, just for the record. Since such practices are being used in different forms, Parliament Speakers have made some principle decisions about how the work will work -- since everything is not in the Civil Code -- and they also have a principle decision within the House, especially in the matter of not having certain items or assets on the stand. So you have to remember these, too. Furthermore, the issue is a legal problem that concerns everyone, independent of this content, beyond the sensitivity of the HDP friends. It's not appropriate to have this kind of conversation with an electronic device. After that, it is important to observe that the efforts are carried out in accordance with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0387par0090	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. It's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0388par0092	There's a solution, Naci Hodja. There's a solution.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0389par0093	Mr. President, the Civil Code has 60...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0387par0094	Mr. Demirel, now, I have promised one person from every political party group.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0389par0095	But I want word on behalf of the group, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0390par0096	Mr. President, we need to move on.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0389par0097	I'd like to speak as deputy chief of the group according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0391par0098	No, Mr. Ironel. Mr. Lightning stood up, and when he got word from where he was sitting, I thought you probably gave him your say-so.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0392par0100	Then let's get out of here, Mr. President, and let them talk!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0393par0101	Mr. President... no, President, I demand a say on behalf of the group based on my right to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0391par0102	Mr. Demirel, I promised one person in each group.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0393par0103	Mr. President, all this evaluation has been made for us. We have a minute to say for him, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0391par0104	Mr. Demirel, look, please, there is no such thing as abuse of a right, ever.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0393par0105	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0391par0106	Look, I've promised each group, and Mr Ahmet Yıldırım of your group has spoken. I thought that you had appointed Mr. Yıldırım as deputy chief of the group, and he spoke.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0393par0107	Mr. President, I'm asking for a minute word from my position in accordance with my right to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0391par0108	Here you go. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0393par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the speaker on the stand, the speaker, was also the co-Chair of the People's Democratic Party, and he's a hostage while he's supposed to be here.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0394par0112	The prisoner, let's change him, he's under arrest.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0395par0113	What a hostage! What a hostage! He's not a hostage, like everyone else!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0396par0114	Terror!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0395par0115	Did they fight Israel?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0397par0116	So I'm wondering how the party organs in the legislature, who can't stand a conversation that doesn't last a minute, will behave in the future. They're not supposed to be in prison today, they're supposed to be in the legislature where they're supposed to say their words, we're expressing that. Many people on the stand have listened to many talks so far, but you need to see this detail: The co-chairs we've got listening to are the co-chairs who are currently in the process of legislating. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0398par0118	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the last speaker is Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı, Bitlis MP. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0399par0169	Mr. President, I have received a pledge to present the opinion and proposals of the People's Democratic Party on the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism in 2017. I salute you and the public. Before expressing our views on the budget, I celebrate the 21st year of the establishment of KESK, one of the leading institutions of the struggle for labour, democracy and freedom in Turkey. Our country has a very rich potential for agriculture and animalism, but this potential has not been effectively developed due to false policies and unplanned work. Although Turkey is one of the rare countries in the world that has self-sufficient agriculture and animalism, today it has become dependent abroad, and during AKP rulings, this addiction has become chronic. Extremism in seeds, rising prices of diesel and fertilizer, increase in exchange rate, decline of support, the fact that the farmer has to sell the product he often receives for less than its cost, has, for many reasons, brought agricultural activities to an unsustainable point. Mr. Faruk Çelik's talks on the budget of the Ministry of Plans and Budget Commission over the past two years have shown that the number of farmers has dropped by close to 1 million. This recession in agriculture also reflects agricultural employment. In 2002, agricultural employment was 35 per cent, while today it was reduced to about 20 per cent. Again, the obligation to report to BUG-KUR, for farmers, poses a problem in terms of the premium payment. The citizen's income for a year corresponds to the two-month premium of the insurance. The government's agricultural support goes to the insurance payment, and the government gives it with a spoon and gets it back with a ladle. Dear lawmakers, one of the biggest damage done by AKP power in the field of agriculture is, without a doubt, the rapid destruction of agricultural land. There is a large share in the development of agricultural land as much as there is no effective fight against erosion. Turkey's most productive lands, especially in Çukurova, are being developed, and constructions are rising on thousands of acres that can produce three different products a year. Sadly, it is clear that the resources and supports that have been separated have not been transformed into characteristics and employment in the field of agriculture. The understanding that destroys its own lands will now rent agricultural areas from Sudan and other African countries and move the private sector to those areas. The government has a colonial mentality with its stance. The price of the diesel was 94 cents in January 2002, which was $3.7 in January 2015, and when it was looked at today, it was over $4. During 14 years of AKP rule, the price of mazotin litres has increased by over 300 per cent. Looking at annual meat consumption, 1,300,000 tons of meat are consumed in our country, which unfortunately has to be imported 300,000 tons of meat annually. It's just the amount of meat that's been bought, and not everyone can consume meat because of the lack of purchasing power. When compared with Turkey's population, this number is not a real number, it has to be at least twice the size compared to developed countries. In Turkey, the cradle of animalism is the eastern and Southeast Anatolian region. The country's most important problem, the deepening of the Kurdish issue with security policies, has also brought the end of animalism in Kurdish provinces. Because of numerous military security areas declared, the meadows, the plateaus are closed, the villages are banned, and the meadows, the forests are burned. 2023 aims include minimizing external dependency, self-sustaining economic construction, which practically rules out imaginary ideas. Now, there's an official's statement, and Rant is life. We have an official who made a statement. Of course, life is life for those who have the advantage. As long as there's Rant's economy, you can't direct people to production because in the Rant economy, production stays in the background, producers and workers don't make money. There's only one way out of the economy, by making people productive and making the manufacturer make money, you're building solid economic foundations. Addressing from this bench last year, Mr. Ali Babacan was to be established on the basis of economics, justice and law. His statement in the context is a clear statement of the collapse of structures that were not established on the basis of justice and law. To ensure that, development must be initiated from the rural area. The increase and enrichment of people in the countryside means accident and automatically enrichment of city centers. This rule is very important if we want to maintain social balance and maintain social peace. Otherwise, there will be neither social balance nor social peace. The man who makes money in the countryside will spend it in the centers. Otherwise, people who get rich in cities never spend money in rural areas. The countryside is like the capillaries in the human body. Just as capillaries transport oxygen into cells and keep the body alive, production in rural areas makes the social system dynamic and healthy. If we can create settlements that are solid in the rural area, roads, water, electricity, housing, water and irrigation, and build a conscious society on production and markets, we can get rid of this economic crisis spiral. Otherwise, as you accuse each time, we will also deprive society of its only grateful health by buying GMO products produced by external forces. Although I have submitted this question to the Home Secretary as a question motion, but I haven't received an answer yet, Mr. Secretary, perhaps he'll make a statement: What kind of development would the drones from the escort fund to the villages provide for the security forces, please explain? Dear lawmakers, for fifty and sixty years, what region of our country does meat and milk grow in which we have grown an animal, and yet there seems to be no answer to the question. The Basin-based agricultural support model is being moved on, and I think it's getting late. The state doesn't grow tomatoes, but it can direct the traffic of production, maintain the balance of production and production. It is evident that the state does not have a designated agricultural and animal policy. If there is no planned work, if there is no domestic demand and exports, all efforts will be wasted; that has happened a lot in the past years. If you look at the manufacturer with the logic that if you look at the pasture as a favor, every year, if the onion brings in good money, then the production goes towards the onion production, and when the production is too much, the price goes down. Thus, the surplus of production is left to rot in the field. With this market order, the manufacturer was run over for years, and the only winner was the middleman, as usual; the worker's sweat filled his car's pockets as money. Dear lawmakers, we don't have enough time to address all the problems of the Ministry here, but I'd especially like to address the problems of seasonal workers. Seasonal traveling farming is the most unsecured labor due to the working conditions, the wages they receive and their discrimination policies. Therefore, eliminating the causes and conditions that lead to seasonal traveling agriculture must be effectively carried out, opening the way for the production activities that these people will run on their territory, providing honorary living and working conditions on the basis of democratic organisation and consciousness, when seasonal traveling farm workers are inevitable. I'm running out of time, and I wanted to talk to you about some things, but... and I'd like to say a few things about security, about some construction. The security road, which is nowhere in the world, is applied to two places in Bitlis, and is given to contractors with open-ended checks. Let me tell you the engineer's description of a teacher when we were students: [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is a human being. He used to say. I mean, economics is the cornerstone of an engineer. Well, let's just say we know that you're doing some work for $3.4.5, let alone $2. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0400par0186	Thank you, Mr. Bagpipe. The talks on behalf of political party groups are over. Now, I will make a promise to Kırıkkale MP Mehmet Demir....to speak on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Iron. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Iron, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0401par0192	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself in the third round of the Central Management Budget Act of 2017. I hereby salute your grand delegation and our beloved nation, who are watching over us on their screens. I wish to God that the 2017 budget talks were good for our country, for our nation, for our democracy and for our economy. Last week, we sent two of our younger brothers, Jesus Nazlim, and our righteous brothers, to the mercy of Hakkk. I offer my condolences to the families of my fellow martyrs and to our country, God rest his soul. At the very beginning of my speech, I thank all members of the Ministry, the President and members of the Plan and Budget Commission, all my fellow ministers and deputies, our bureaucrats, especially our Finance Minister, who had been involved in preparing the budget bill for 2017. Mr. President, our nation, who went out on the night of the July 15 coup attempt called by our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has taken over our country's independence and unity by shielding its chest against tanks, planes, helicopters. (AK PARTI APPLAUSE) Repelled by our nation's epic attempt at coup attempt, the unsuccessful focus of evil is trying to operate against Turkey, especially in an economic field. The reforms that we have implemented from 2002 to today have revealed once again that our country's economy is a solid economy based on strong foundations. Our country, which overcomes the global crisis in 2008, will be able to overcome the recent economic activity and the current swings of courtship slightly. Neither the European Union nor the international rating agencies nor any other organisation will prevent us from walking in this blessed cause, nor will these evil centers succeed in economics, as they have failed in other areas, nor will they defeat us. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have tried before, failed because we have a leader who believes in his nation and a nation who trusts in his leader. No matter what they do, they won't be able to weaken this country, they won't be able to divide this country. That's the way it is! [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Mr. President, in the 14-year-old AK PARTI rulings, our country has jumped the age, in both democratisation and economic developments, our country has become a number-one and respected country in the world. Congressman, this has not been easy. To refresh our memory, they released the April 27th e-magnition. They signed 367 freaks to prevent the 363-strong AK PARTY group from electing the President. They've filed a lawsuit against the AK PARTY. They attempted a trip riot. On October 6th, 7th, they called the wicked people to the streets. They attempted a coup on December 17th and July 15th, but with the courage of our leader, they failed with the great support of our nation. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Because the AK PARTY is the nation's own authority. Mr. President, the precious lawmakers have become a country where economic crisis occurred before 3 November 2002, where the Constitutional pamphlets were flying in the air, and IMF was flying at the door of the IMF, loaning IMF to the IMF, paying off their debt to the IMF, paying for the quadrillionies, sending satellites to space, producing native war helicopters, producing domestic tanks, making the first domestic ships, making the first domestic warships, making the proud, making the proud, the proud militia rifle, making the drones, making the Marmaray (IMF), making the U.S. I thank Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our leader who made our country one of the number-one countries of the world. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] With these feelings and thoughts, I wish that our ministries and their relevant, related institutions, the 2017 budget be better, and that our ministries will serve for many more days. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0402par0207	Thank you, Mr. Iron. You received the most applause today, Mr. Iron. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now I promise the government.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0403par0211	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0402par0212	On behalf of the government, the first speaker is Deputy Prime Minister Nurettin Canikli. Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0403par0215	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0402par0216	Mr. Sky, I promised the government. Please, sir. Mr. Secretary, you've been speaking for 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0404par0218	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Dear friends, I present to you the Capital Market Board and the BDK budgets and activities of the Deputy Prime Minister. If you'll excuse me before I go into the details of these, and I'd like to share with you a few dimensions, a few aspects of the general global economy, as is the custom, without going into the much-spoken details, without repeating them. One of them, you know, in general, is a low-profile movement in real markets. So growth is a negative global development in employment markets, especially exports. It's important to remind of these because it's not possible to analyze and analyze an economics analysis and analyse as a result independent of global developments, and it's not true, because it's also true, as a result, in an economy that we can call small, that we can call small, that we can describe as relatively small, in any economy in the world. Even in such an economy, very small tremors bring serious fluctuations, tremors, and developments in all global economies. So one of the most interesting examples that we've been experiencing recently is a relatively small-scale movement in the European Union economy of Greece, which we can say is a relatively small-scale movement, especially beyond normal growth in financial markets, all of which, including all of the developed economies in the world, in a country of the European Union, have led to serious problems, debates and fluctuations in all of the global economies. The fluctuations we've been experiencing lately, the causes, the factors that trigger the fluctuation, they're much larger. In particular, the expectations related to America, you know, interest increases, positive developments in real data, where capital in the international area, especially in the developed countries, but especially the increased trend of returning to America, have also opened the door for a financial recession in this sense, not only in the developing markets, but in this sense. That's a good point to underline. Depending on all of this, all numbers in American markets tend to go to the top. After Trump was elected president, Wall Street's four basic indexes reached the highest level in the last seventeen years, and after the election, a trillion dollars in foreign currency entered the American stock markets. Of course, we see that these developments also bring fluctuations in all other countries and in the United States, with no exceptions, in all markets, through expectations, in real markets, but in that moment, in financial markets. After these developments, there is no other expectation, and it is also true in the money markets. So, you know, let's say in the last month that TL is going to lose a value against dollars, but it's not just dollars, it's a little bit more than other foreign currencies, but it's essentially an erosion from all of these global developments. But there's no other way to describe it. It's a fluctuation, it's a gycle, a point of the fluctuation. This is important for this: so it's lost value. This is what happened. Or making some definitions that I'm not going to repeat right now is not right, it's not economically right. In fact, these kinds of cycles, such fluctuations in open economies, with certain periods of time, all economies -- for all markets, not just for money markets -- have no income and have no impact, and then calm down. As far as we're concerned, we can say that the bottom point of this fluctuation has passed, in terms of Turkey's economy, has been seen at its bottom. I mean, for all the markets. It's definitely not a price estimate for the price of the TL (TL) or the price of the exchanges. So from here on out, the THL doesn't have to be like this, the dollar can be like this. It doesn't mean to make a guess or make a determination, or something like that. Such a thing cannot be done, especially in the framework of the free market economy that is being implemented, it is certainly not right and it is not possible to make an estimate of the currency or the price of the TLS. It doesn't mean that. Now, of course, in many countries, these developments change forecasts both in terms of expectations of macro indicators and in some countries, but the important thing is that let's put all these developments aside, in the middle of this tremor, in terms of public debt -- which is an important criteria -- as a very decisive indicator of the outcome -- in terms of public debt, in the world -- emerging markets, developed markets, all of them -- the rate of public debt to a fixed income is going up, and this is going up in this way, and it's going up, and it's going up, and it's going up, and it's going up. Only Turkey is outside this trend, positively separated; so for the past 14 years, this trend has been downward-directed for Turkey, for Turkey's economy, and continues to fall. This is really a very important development that will allow the tremors to be felt at a minimum, to contribute to it, and that needs to be underlined. Others can be stretched easier; they apply to all macros; they apply to employment markets; they apply to other growth expectations or to be fulfilled; but they are public debt stocks, which are virtually impossible to stretch in the short, even middle term; public debt stock is trending; they are trending. It's really hard to change the direction, the ratio, the number, and the direction. In that sense, Turkey's economy is one of the countries at least at risk, one of the economies. And once we add a number on financial institutions and financial markets, especially banks, it's understood once again how important it is, how valuable it is: the ratio of leverage between the real sector and the financial sector in advanced economies -- or the proportion -- is about 1/8, 1/9. Let's just say that, in response to national income, or in terms of national income, the amount of assets being exported is about 1/8, 1/9. This means that there is a very serious bulge, a fictitious, virtual area for all economies in financial markets and financial areas. For example, for the U.S. economy, this ratio is 9 to 1. What this means is that this is more than one, which is an 8-story section, 8-story section, defines virtual, non-real, non-fiction. Securities exported in this way are largely in the assets of the banks of these countries. So the financial institutions that carry these assets have to be acknowledged that they have a very fragile structure. In Turkey, this ratio is 1,1. So it's almost equal to 1. So there's no foam, there's no virtual, there's no real space in the financial area, I'm saying it for Turkey. In this sense, our banks don't carry real-estate assets that are fictitious and seriously bulging, Turkish banks, but all other banks in the developed economies are filled with non-actual, nonreal, nonreal, nonreal assets. This is literally a virtual world, and in the slightest fluctuation, it shows that the banking sector, which is already very sensitive by its structure, can be affected very quickly in emerging markets, in developing economies, in a very negative way. As a matter of fact, let's not name it, when the slightest problem with some of the major banks of some major countries, some of the major banks of developed countries, when it comes to speculation, is that soon there are very serious, very powerful distortions in their financial structures. Let's not call it a bank again. These have not been affected in the slightest, especially in spite of the incredible disturbances and developments in Turkey's financial system and banks, as these developments were taking place over there, and with the capacity to influence the financial sector very deeply, their indicators have not been compromised at all. In no country in the world, for example, in 2016, when you think of the political and economic shocks that we face together from the outside and from the inside, it is virtually impossible that the financial sector of that system or banks are not affected by these developments. But the banks of Turkey -- there's no need to count -- were able to actually influence the financial sector very strongly in 2016, without getting hurt by any of these potential developments, without experiencing the slightest bit of negativity. We're actually doing stress tests with real events, in terms of Turkish banks. Therefore, as a result of all these developments, there is no negativeness in Turkey, and it is important to stress that it is a value, it is a privilege, and it belongs to Turkey's financial sector and Turkish banks. So I certainly don't refer to this as part of political rhetoric, all of which are fed on real data, numbers, supported issues, and they've already been actually tested. Since 2008, the Turkish financial sector has been tested by incredible tremors, real events. So on the one hand, look, we're having a really big fight, you know, in the east and southeast, in Syria and Iraq, from one angle, we're in the middle of a war; there can be incredible political fluctuations, and one of them is the events on July 15th -- you know -- and the shocks from the outside -- all of this is happening in 2016, and the Turkish banking system, the Turkish economy, is almost not affected by them. This is a really important value, and we all have to be able to share that value; we all have to accept it and share it, and we have to be able to say it anywhere. So I'm trying to stress this in particular because there's always negative things being expressed, trying to be bought, and yet there's a financial system that's completely our own, and because of the right policies, there's a strong financial structure, and there's a series of attacks on this financial system from time to time. Despite all of this, it can survive, and we have to evaluate it in every sense, with its opposition, with its power, so it's a mechanism of the country, as a result. We all have to take care of it, we all have to support it. With all this going on, the financial sector, the banks are like this; we took every precaution not to bring him down, not to compromise our real strong growth performance; we did all kinds of work, we're determined there. So global growth expectations are constantly revised, there's trouble in employment markets, there's protection trends and so on, but in the meantime, we need to continue our strong growth trend, both to create new jobs and to increase income. Look, when the 2017 budget was being drawn up, the GDP was originally planned to be 1.6, but it's also important that it stays below 2, and we're careful that it stays under it -- we've raised it to 1.9. The difference of 0.3 is allocated to investment spending. So in terms of supporting this strong growth, this is really very important. Again, of course, the development of the global plan may, of course, be unable to completely manipulate and control it all. Of course, you're taking precautions, or you're taking every precaution necessary to keep the destruction at a minimum. Again, depending on the recent developments in these foreign exchange markets in Turkey -- in general and outside -- you know, there's a lot of effort to expand the use of TL. In particular, the Prime Minister's instructions on this matter have led to some serious steps, some serious distance. This is an extremely economic and logical proposal, and it's a policy. So, of course, in Turkey, the TL is going to be used for TL, or let's say, the more we can generalize the use of TLS in order to reduce the proportion of the fluctuations in the face of other foreign currency, the lower the size of this fluctuation, so it's a really powerful economic target and the argument. Regarding that, significant steps have been taken in recent measures. At first, all public tenders will be made in TLs, except the mandatory ones, and even the ones that are now in the ads for exchanges, if the envelopes haven't been opened, the tenders that haven't been done, have not been completed, are being cancelled, and they're being tendered in TLs. Many institutions have taken the necessary precautions; I will not go into details, nor do I have time. There are just a few final measures announced today by our Prime Minister. I'd like to share some information about them with you in order to make them better understood. But, before we get there, you know, there's still work being done in the process of draining the funding resources of the terrorist organization because it's a crime to transfer resources to the terrorist organization, to finance it. A total of 692 companies have been handed over to the TMSF as 46 groups so far. There are 37,850 people working at these companies right now -- total employment capacity. Energy, agriculture, food, textiles, mining and so forth... these companies will be conducted by TMSF in accordance with rational principles until the end of their criminal investigation, trial, except for those who are damaged and ejaculated; but others will be governed to the conclusion of the court. The total active size of these companies is around $34.1 billion, with a total of 14.2 billion and a total of 16 billion. These are very important organizations, and they are very carefully run by the TMSF in that sense. If TMSF had not been handed over to the TMSF, if the system of managing them as trustees had been continued without interference, there would have been serious disruption in the financial structure of a significant part of them. Yes, now, today, our Prime Minister has shared with the public that there is a credit capacity of 250 billion liras. The maximum cost of this to the public in a total of three years is 17.5 billion liras in the event of all risks; in three years, that is 2017, 2018, 2019. Let's just say there's been an allocation of resources involved. 250 billion liras, especially because of these fluctuations, or because of the destabilisation of the cash balance, will be used and used by companies who will be in need of financing, guaranteed by the Treasury, guaranteed by the Loan Guarantee Fund. So this is extremely important. In other words, no company will be affected by these fluctuations...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0405par0232	Mr. Secretary, I'm turning on your microphone. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0404par0234	From these developments, this opportunity has been brought to ensure that no real sector, manufacturing firms, production companies, any of them will be affected negatively, and therefore no firm will fail. 250 billion dollars, that's an incredible resource. Since it will be used through the Credit Guarantee Fund, there will be no more obligations for companies to use, such as finding collateral or providing additional collateral, or mortgages or such - because this will be done by the Treasury through the Loan Guarantee Fund. This, indeed, resets the possibility of the real sector being affected, negatively affected; this is a crucial measure in time, in a very good time. Again, a statement was made today by our Prime Minister in particular to create new capacity for employment.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0405par0237	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0404par0239	In 2017, all the incentives needed to create the private sector's new business capacity of 500,000 would be put into action, which means it's in effect from now on. In addition, the capacity to work for society has been created for 100,000 new people. This means that in 2017, with the exception of the other two mechanisms, the additional employment capacity of at least 600,000 people, including 500,000 private sectors, has been created to provide at least 600,000 new jobs for the public.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0406par0240	Where will you get them?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0404par0241	Finally, yes, I'll tell you the source...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0406par0242	Unemployment insurance... The funds will be funded from unemployment benefits. Don't do it.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0407par0245	Yeah, where the hell are we going to use the funds if we're building up unemployment insurance here?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0408par0247	Don't touch there, don't touch there.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0406par0248	Don't, don't, don't touch the unemployment fund.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0407par0249	It's all about employment; it's all about use, it's all about theory, it's all about practice, there's nothing wrong with that.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0406par0251	You're taking workers from AKP county buildings for the benefit of the community.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0409par0252	I'd like to thank Deputy Prime Minister Nurettin Canikli. Now, on behalf of the government, the Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications, Mr. Ahmet Arslan, will speak second. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0410par0256	I hope the Minister talks about the railroads.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0409par0257	Mr. Secretary, your time is 20 minutes. Mr. President, my esteemed congressmen, I salute you all. I'm going to try to share with you my views on the budgets of our ministry, the Ministry's branch office, the Department of Highways, the General Directorate of Civil Aviation and its associated organisation, Information Technologies and Communications. Of course, many suggestions have been made since morning. I'll answer them when I turn my tongue, as long as we talk about the railroads. Of course, I'd like to say to you that we've been dealing with 240 thousand people, 100,000 contractors, 100,000 contractors all over 81 counties, and I've given them my greetings and my compliments from here. My dear President, while we're doing all of this work, we're predicting what we're planning to do: there's 1.5 million people, $35 trillion in domestic revenues, $7 trillion in trade volumes within three to four hours of flight in our geography. So, while we're doing all the plans for transport, communications and shipping, we're trying to access this market, and in this market, we're trying to reinforce the bridge position of the Anatolian geography between Asia and Europe. What have we done so far? The money we spent 14 years on transport, shipping and communications -- 308 billion, 700 million -- we've made 308 quadrillion dollars in old money -- and the share of the transport plus information and communication sector in illegal domestic revenues has now reached 14.7 per cent today. I'd like to express my satisfaction in particular. For that, I thank all our governments, including our President -- the Prime Minister of the period -- and the Prime Minister of the period. We've spent 196 billion dollars on our land routes so far that people all over our country can see through the roads. What did we do? We've built 18,900 kilometers on the 6,100km divided road. As of today, we're more than 25,000 kilometers away. Again, we're saving 16.7 billion dollars a year from saving fuel and labor, while our six provinces are connected in divided ways, as of today, 76 provinces are linked together. Dear friends, the average speed in traffic before us is 40 kilometers per hour, and today it's 50 miles per hour. Although the vehicle activity has increased greatly, there has been a 60 per cent reduction in the accident per 100 million vehicles per kilometre, a 5.2 per 100 million vehicles per kilometre -- unfortunately -- while the rate today has dropped to 2.6. Again, our 1,714km highway network on the highways has reached 2,489 kilometers, and we are currently working on 631km of construction, and the 1915 Çanakkale Bridge is 98km to Malkara. Menemen-Alima-Thandar is 76 kilometers and there has been a lot of talk here, and we have completed Ankara-Nüğde (YPK) and the Council of Ministers' decision, and we are now in the tender -- God willing. Of course, the YPK process is still under way regarding Aydın-Sealı, and we are going to tender. Ankara-Kırkkale-Delice, we're making preparations for the tender process. That's what we're going to do next. The questions here were specifically said that the Mediterranean Coast Road did not work. In all Mediterranean Coast Road, we continue to work, including tunnels, viaducts, bridges, divided roads. By the end of 2018, we'll be over 90 percent and 2019. Speaking of divided roads, we opened the Istanbul-Izmir Highway -- which includes the Osmangazi Bridge -- on June 30th. The fourth bridge in terms of the world's medium openness. And again, 58 kilometers from Orhangazi is now in service. By the end of the year, we'll finish the section of Bursa, and hopefully, we'll be serving 25 kilometers by Izmir. The bridge of Yavuz Sultan Selim was not only the bridge, but the road divided by 215 kilometers. No one's bringing up the 215km of divided roads, so it's better to know. The largest bridge in the world with a rail system on it. The world's rail system, the longest footpan, the tallest bridge, and the highest tower-high bridge. There are no tunnels done to Hakeza." I've been told. The amount of tunnels that our country owns up to our powers was 50 kilometers -- the Bolu Mountain Tunnel lasted 3,250 meters, 17 years -- and we've raised it to 314 kilometers today. The length of the tunnel we built in 2016 alone is 52 kilometers. I haven't come to Eurasia yet. Same goes for the bridge. Especially today on the bridge, we have a total bridge length of 198 kilometers in our country. And again, the Eurasian Tunnel -- we'll open on December 20th -- will be the deepest tunnel in the world, a tunnel that unites two continents, where 120,000 vehicles will pass a day. Ovit saw the light, Zigana began, Ilgaz is ready to open, I hope, soon to open, lifeguard Hakeza, Geminbeli justice. Speaking of roads, there's been a lot of criticism, about Osmangazi and Yavuz Sultan Selim bridges, why do bridges run out and open before the highways run out? You'll make the bridge first, then the highway. That's the logic of this, one. Secondly, there's been a lot of criticism here about guarantees. Of course, when you're making the guarantees, you're going to show your confidence in your project. When the entire highway is over, you'll create traffic with it, and you'll put it out there. Çanakkale, Osmangazi, Yavuz Sultan Selim bridges form a ring around Marmara, along with the connecting highways, and you'll take that into account. More importantly, as we do one way, we take into account not only the money we get from the vehicles that go over the road, but the value of adding its neighborhood commercially and economically, as well as how much our people increase their social life, their well-being, all the plans, our programs, and I want to stress that in particular. And again, here -- if only it hadn't been for the fire of Aladağ -- we pray for the mercy of our children, especially our families, who have lost their lives. Aladağ, however, is not a project in the road network of the General Directorate of Highways. One thing the Metropolitan municipality must do is what kind of support can we give you on the same day, and what can we do about the roads? On the same day we sent our regional manager, sent our vehicles. He is not the General Directorate of the Highways, and I would like it to be known that this is especially known to the High Council. And again, there was a lot of talk about the railroads. The money we spend 14 years on railroads is about 55 billion Turkish liras. My fellow lawmakers, a case in which the railway roads were neglected; from the Ottomans, in the early part of the republic, a railway campaign was mobilized, but was abandoned to the fate of the railroads until the AK PARTI governments (1950-03). Together with the AK PARTY -- we are grateful for the iron passengers -- the railways became state policy again. How'd it come? The 10,950km railway network has been raised to 12,532 kilometers. The 2,100km of electricity has been raised to 3,338 kilometers, and construction is under way at 2,300km. The signal line length has been increased to 2,449 kilometers, while it has been increased to 5,008 kilometers, and is currently running at 2.889 kilometers. As part of the road renovation, the railways of Kars have not been hit since 1950, up until Akyaka (Akyaka) on the border with Armenia. Let me give you an example, including this one, we've renovated 9.880 kilometers, and we're still renovating. The high-speed train is the pride of all of us, and everyone sees it through life. 1,213 kilometers of high-speed trains, and we've moved 30 million people, 30 million people. The high-speed train is now an industry that our country is proud of, especially with many projects under construction. Ankara-Sivas continues, Ankara-Izmir continues, Bursa-Billeci continues, Konya-Karaman continues; work continues from Karaman to Mersin, Adana, Gaziantep. And again, a valuable speaker here said, "Sir, the ministers are Erzincan, Karsli; they only think of those lines, but they have to think of the main arteries." That's exactly what we're doing. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) The railway from Edirne (Edrne) to Kars (KARTİ) is the main backbone of our country. What's the reason? At first, I mentioned a number of trades. In order for us to benefit from it, we need to connect Europe uninterrupted to Asia in order to benefit from the position of our country's bridge; the road divided as we bind it, the railway as we bind it, the seaport as we bind it, you need to build the airport so that we can give the geography the right. That's exactly what we're doing.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0411par0278	Minister, is there an East Black Sea, sir? Someone's uncomfortable because we're giving the geography its due. (EA/DG) Because someone was disturbed, it was said not to build an Istanbul-Izmir highway, not to build a third airport, not to build Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge and access roads.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0412par0280	Who said that, Mr. Secretary? No one's saying that. And it wasn't enough, it was said not to build the Baku-Tiflis-Kars railway.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0413par0282	You do it and you do it out of your pocket? You're doing it with the taxes we pay. My fellow lawmakers, I'm going to Kazakhstan called Baku-Tiflis-Kars, I'm going to Azerbaijan called Baku-Tiflis-Kars, I'm going to Turkmenistan. Why? They know that by completing the transport corridor between Central Asia and Europe, Turkey will have shortened the time in this corridor. He will not only shorten it, but he will serve his people and earn income as a country. And I'll tell you one more thing about that, valuable lawmakers, we're currently working on construction at 3,387 kilometers on the railways. Let me stress that in particular. Again, Marmaray... of course we thank everyone who's worked hard. We are now carrying 172 million passengers in Marmaray. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) The world's project is the world's envy project. I told you about Baku-Tiflis-Kars. We built a high-speed train station. It's a place where all of us, no matter where we travel to Turkey, we'll go, we'll wait in peace, we'll get on our train, we'll meet our passengers, we'll see them off.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0414par0287	You have forgotten the East Black Sea, Minister, the East Black Sea. Again, to emphasize that we did not neglect the railways: we used 585 million euros when we took advantage of the European Union's grant funds. Let everyone know that the railways, along with the AK PARTY, have become a state policy again, and have become a priority again.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0415par0289	How many businesses have you closed down, Mr. Secretary, tell me that too. We're not getting enough, we're building logistical centers to connect the railroads to organized industrial areas, which are now open to business, we've got 20 planned. They only have 27 million tons a year. Again, the new logistics center was discussed here. Yes, it ends in 2017, and hopefully in 2018, we'll do the second stage. We've built a national car about the local railway industry, which ends next year; we've built a national electric diesel train set; we're finishing it in 2018; we're not satisfied, we're talking about the national high-speed train, and we've completed its concept design. We're carrying 16 million tons of cargo, and today we've reached 26 million tons. We've narrowed it down to three days, 15 days, with a block of train transport. We're contributing to all cities in the city's rail systems. And hopefully we'll open the carabinieri subway at the end of this year. The third airport subway is also a subway that we make in that sense. We went to the third airport, which was to be finished and ended a year and a half later, with the easier access to the third airport and the right of that airport, and we invited all the companies in Turkey to do this kind of project. Let everyone know that our priority in this matter is to do the service of our people, our people.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0416par0292	Minister, isn't there anything wrong with the Black Sea, the Black Sea? In the airline industry, it was said that the point of aviation was terrifying. Friends, true, terrifying. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Why?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0417par0294	It's hurting. As 34 million people traveled by air in Turkey, we raised it to 181 million. It's worth 4 million.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0418par0297	Any profits, Mr. Secretary, any profits in the airlines? As we fly to 60 points of the world today, we fly to 283, which is terrifying. We took him to 55 airports with 26 airports. It's terrifying.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0419par0299	But you've done a lot of damage, a lot of damage. When we employ 65,000 people, we employ 120,000 people. It's terrifying.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0420par0301	And your damage is terrible, your damage. We're flying from the two centers of our country to the 26 centers, and today we're flying with six airlines from seven centers. The world is watching us with envy, you should know that.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0419par0303	You've cleared the flights, Minister. It's been said about the third airport, you've got a tail on someone. We're filling up the coal-cracking swamps, we're investing 10 billion euros, we're getting $25 billion in 25 years. That's right... [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Victory Airport was mentioned here. Friends, there's an airport that we've built with over 10 percent of the do-and-run model, and we've already paid 41 trillion or 41 million dollars from guarantees, 41 million from guarantees. But it's 411 million. We've paid 41 million dollars, 411 dollars.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0421par0307	Look at us now and then. I don't have anything to say if you don't see 411, just talk about 40.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0419par0309	Look at us, Mr. Secretary. Let me look at you. A valued MP, who came out of you, said: "Turkey has come out of the European Union's aviation authority. You must become a member of the European Union in order to be in the Aviation Authority of the European Union. We were never there until today. But do you know who is particularly the head of the Council of the European Union? Assistant Director General of Civil Aviation from Turkey. The president of Eurocontrol is from Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] For 14 years, the Vice President has been still 14 years. Turkey has been selected to vote for the council membership of the world's civil aviation organization, not Europe, but 156 of the 172 members of Turkey. That's where we're going. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Even though they didn't take anyone outside the European Aviation Authority, we're there, not just because we're not a member, but because you're an influence on all your decisions.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0422par0317	What else do you have if you don't have the right to vote? Yet it was said: "There is no flight to Zonguldak-Taycuma. There is a flight. There is 26,000 people flying, but it can be with free competition supply and demand balance. Çukurova Airport was spoken here. We've made a tender for Çukurova Airport. The Public Contractorship has been contested, the administration has made its decision again, and has invited it to the contract. Let me just say that.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0423par0320	Anything for the East Black Sea? The railroad... What about the East Black Sea? Let's get to the East Black Sea. The Army-Greesun Airport was built in the East Black Sea, you know. Rize-Artvin Airport is being built. The railroad, the railroad... And let me share with you here about Samsun Airport: We meet the Vice President of the Precious Group from our bureaucratic position. They called me, they called me. I called him on his cell phone, he didn't answer our Deputy Director's phone, he didn't answer one more time, he didn't answer, I said to his friends, "Confirm the number, I may have got the number wrong." They confirmed the number, I called your number again, I texted you when he didn't answer, and good evening, I'm Ahmet Arslan, I'm Ahmet Arslan." I'll tell you this, I'll never be rude. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You've been briefed again on the Samsun airport. For the Samsun airport, it is said that you will not interfere with flights at the airport until the pist is shut down. After closing, it will remain closed for a year. We will do everything in six months, not even in six months, but in four months, and hopefully in one month between March and May, we will do what needs to be done in three months, so that we do not victimize Samsunu, Samsunite, but we will offer their airport to their best service as soon as possible. As for the 2nd runway, of course, as for all our airports, as the airports grow, they will need the 2nd track, and I will fulfill it. Army-Gress lines, Army-Gress lines... There was a lot in sailing, a lot in the rights, a lot in the PTT, a lot in the rights, and a lot in the rights.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0424par0329	Mr. Secretary, I asked you a question about the public officials you suspended. There was a lot of stuff in the IT sector in particular, and let friends legitimize their rights. I'll tell you one thing about PTT: PTT, centuries old...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0425par0333	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Secretary, and I'll take your last words. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll tell you one sentence about PTT: PTT has been acting on it for a century and a half, whatever the future and future of this country requires, and will act on what it requires today. Friends, rest assured, we will continue to be at your service with 250,000 others. I'm saying we're going to do the best jobs we've ever done, using our budget in the best way you've given us. I pay my respects. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'd like to thank Mr. Kazim Arslan, Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0426par0339	Mr. Secretary, you haven't said a word about the civil servants you've suspended.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0427par0340	Minister, isn't there anything on the railways to the Black Sea, Giresun?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0428par0341	What are you going to do with the PTT officers you suspended, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0429par0342	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0430par0343	Mr. Master, please, I'll turn on your microphone. I'm sorry, the Lions get confused when they're too much, and I apologize. I'd like to thank our Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications, Mr. Ahmet Arslan.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0431par0345	You didn't mention a word about the Black Sea on the railroad.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0430par0346	Mr. Master, come in. Hopefully, Mr. Kazim lion will be the minister.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0432par0348	It's got to work hard, it's got to work hard!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0430par0349	Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0433par0350	Mr. President, I also have a request for another word. Now, Mr. Secretary, I...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0430par0352	Now, Mr. Master, one moment... I turned on your mic...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0433par0354	No, I wanted to talk about teasing here, that's why I stood up. I also have a request for a statement regarding Mr. Canikli's statements. If you could just give me two minutes if we're gonna combine the two of them.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0430par0356	Here you go, here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0433par0359	Okay. Let me tell you the part about Mr. Canikli first, Mr. President. Now, Mr. Canikli, in a very nice way, said that the firmness of banks today is a presence of our country and that we should all be happy with its opposition with its power. Of course, as a sequel to that, I'd expect him to say, If our banks are so strong today, when were the reforms that brought out this integrity? In June 1999, the two-month period of government began and after a series of reforms, the stability of these banks today was revealed, and we should have said so. And there's even something here: of course these reforms have been done, they've been very painful, the years' accumulated problems have been solved, it has had a political and economic cost. They were constantly involved in politics over that political and economic cost, and the government on that day was constantly in debt to this extent. Here, I invite you to be a little more balanced, Mr. Secretary. Now, thank you, Mr. Transport Minister, we'll actually meet in bureaucracy. I mean, I don't do rude things to anyone. I didn't say you were being rude. But I called him almost three or four times for about a month. Indeed, then I looked, and he has a message. I don't have his number. Good evening, Mr. President. Ahmet Arlen. He said. There's probably 100,000 Ahmet Arslans in Turkey, both Ahmet and Arslan, a very common name. Maybe he didn't say anything in the form of the Minister of Transport, because of his humility, and I'm not really aware of him. That's part of it, but on the other hand, I have five conditions. He stated: Now, according to the condition, within a year, the airport will be served there before closing from 1 October 2016 to 5 October 2017, where it will be repaired.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0434par0366	Here you go. Finish it, Master.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0433par0367	Thank you, Mr. President, I'll finish right away. I mean, it's said to be completed in a year and not to be blocked by air transport. If there's any other clause that we know of, we don't know, please let them. But, what's happening right now... it even hit the press, I don't know if it's true, we're not going to take the contract that way, we're going to finish it in three months. I don't know, maybe it's wrong in those papers, and I don't want to blame the Minister there, but that's what's happening right now. It's wanted to be finished in three months, but for three months, the airport will be shut down and there will be 500,000 passengers lost. What we're saying here is that, in accordance with the original terms of the tender -- because it's already been auctioned off -- before it's shut down in air traffic, it could have been done in time, it wouldn't have happened in the first place. There are many examples of such repairs being done without fail. The second thing is, the second runway should have been planned by now. I wanted to express that, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0435par0371	Thank you, Mr. Master. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0436par0374	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, before I speak to Mr. Transport Minister, I'd like to hear your opinion on a news report that PTT had announced today. PTT, a national organisation of ours, said today that it has spent 171m dollars and 20m euros in Turkish lira in its account. So I said, why doesn't he keep his money in a national corporation account and keep it on foreign currency? This needs to be explained because this government talks about nationalism all the time, but once it's national, it's clear that a national organization must first respect its own money. Mr. Energy Minister wasn't here, so I don't want to sound like I'm talking about him behind his back. Mr. Secretary, I was in Hakkari Yüksekova last week. The biggest problem with the East is the power outage, which means there are numerous power outages per day. It destroys the entire economy in a very negative way, and there are very serious complaints. Secondly -- I hope you'll mention this -- there are some very important allegations about you in the papers today. I don't think it's appropriate to make these claims, but I think you might have read them. And in this regard -- so, from your degree, there are some documents published on many issues -- I expect you to shed some light on the public. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0437par0379	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. President, I'm very sorry, but I have to make a statement, there are many flaws. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Mr. President, just to be clear, let me tell you the part about Samsun. There are two articles there, the 1st article says that until the pist is repaired, you will do things outside of it so that the flights will not be blocked. We sleep 100 percent, we obey. The second article says: "When you have finished all these things, you will shut down the track, and you will repair it. For a year, there will be a period of time. I explained this in Samsun, that we will not meet this year, that we will finish it in three months. So it has two separate substances, and I have two sentences about two things. In one, we'll shorten the sequence. In one, we'll finish it in three months, we won't obey it. I said, but it was misunderstood, as if against the institution, we wouldn't comply with the terms against the Samsunites. No, in the interest of the Samsunites and the institutions, we'll do whatever force we can not to comply with the requirements so that the contractor can finish it at once. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I promise the Deputy Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0438par0389	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Master has just expressed that the banking sector has a really powerful structure, and that the reforms that took place before the AK PARTI rule are important and decisive, and that should be said. By the end of 2002, when the AK PARTY took over governments, the rate of transmutation of public banks was about 24 per cent, you know, Mr. Master, and even you know that in the People's Bank -- if I don't remember correctly -- was over 40 per cent. So the rate of transformation in the international field is around 3.5 to 4 percent. When we take over, the rate of transmutation in public banks is 24 per cent -- let's just say -- is about 3.5 per cent when we come to the end of the period of ruling the AK PARTY. This is a very important development.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0439par0393	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0438par0394	Besides, of course, the arrangements are important, the regulations are important, it is absolutely out of the question that we say they are insignificant, where serious decisions have been made. But again, in the previous period -- I mean, not to speculate -- I'm trying to express it as a discussion area, but as a foundation -- in the time period, over four or five years, in the past period, in public banks, such an incredible sink rate has been created, as if their financial structure has completely collapsed. What I'm saying is, of course, rules are important, it's very important that the arrangements are in place, but it's the management that's fundamental, the practice, the management. If wrong is done here, wrong decisions are made, wrongly executed, then you can finally see what happens to public banks and banking systems. So the end of the 14 years of practice is really a bright end, successful and brilliant; 24 percent of it has been reduced to 3.5, normalized, saved, strengthened.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0440par0395	You don't have a theoretical contribution, you accept it. You're in practice, but you're not contributing to the theory.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0439par0396	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, let's get one thing straight. We're conducting budget talks. Talks on behalf of political party groups have been completed. I promised the congressman who wanted to speak in favor of himself, and then it was the government's turn. Now, while the government is speaking, the members of the group have asked for a word. I made them that promise in a certain amount of flexibility. However, there is no such procedure, lawmakers: Mr. ministers, I will make a promise to another member of parliament to speak against the government, and then there will be a 20-minute question-and-answer process. Mr. Group, it is against the Civil Code to turn my promise to the vice presidents into a question-answer method. So, please don't move the flexibility I've shown into another area. Now, I promised the National Movement Party Group, I promised the Republican People's Party Group, and I will make a promise to the HDP Group to ensure equality.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0441par0399	Mr. President, before you make your promise, I'll stand by and tell him to go on the record.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0439par0400	Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0441par0401	Those reforms have already been made to solve those problems the Minister said. Mr. Secretary remembers wrong, he's not in 2002, he's in 1999, he's in public banks. Those problems have been solved, they've had a serious capital supplement, they've been autonomized. The government he boasted today was also made in 2001, during the 57th Government. We need to be careful with these.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0439par0402	Thank you, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0442par0403	They're the 2002 rasios.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0441par0404	Oh, come on. Unfreeze them, for God's sake, then bring in the radio.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0439par0405	Mr. Toğrul, come in. I'll turn on your microphone. According to Article 60, I give you my word for a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0443par0409	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, our Deputy Prime Minister has linked the surge in the wolf and all the economic difficulties to developments abroad. Everyone knows that there is serious instability in this country, and the foundation of instability is political instability. Without seeing this, it would appear that this current fluctuation will continue, regardless of the country's non-investigation. So this instability is a political instability, the continuation of political instability is non-investigation and, depending on that, economic instability, I'd like to point out in particular. I had a question for Mr. Transport Minister, and I asked him on the stand, but unfortunately he didn't answer. Public employees, PTT employees want to return to their post as soon as possible, and as responsible for July 15th... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... Did he see us, the government? I wanted to present this to the Minister's attention. Thank you again.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0444par0415	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. Members of parliament, Osmanlıspor UEFA defeated Switzerland's representative Zurich 2-0 in its final match in the first group of the European League. According to this conclusion, the leader of the Ottomanspor group finished the lead with 10 points and went to the next round. We celebrate the Ottomanspor, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as the Presidential Court, and wish them success in their fight in the next round. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account Now, on behalf of the government, the third speaker is Minister of Energy and Resources, Mr. Berat Colonelrak. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Secretary, your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0445par0470	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. You know, energy is important; it's important in Turkey's growth, its development, its contribution to economic employment. Of course, if someone is uncomfortable, why do you keep comparing it to 14 years? What have we done in 14 years? For us to remember, it's important to start at the point where Turkey grows, where it comes from at the energy point. In our 14 years of power, as in energy, as in the economy of Turkey, we have always had a motto, we've always built our policies on this: if Turkey is to grow, it has to grow with its investments in energy. We've always worked hard to produce electrical energy with enough and low cost for growth. Since the beginning of 2003, with nearly 75 billion dollars in investment, together with private and public, we have delivered Turkey's power from 32,000 megawatts to 80,000 megawatts at the end of this year. Our strategies and policies are based on the diversity of resources, the integration of domestic and renewable resources into the economy, sustainability, liberalisation of energy markets, energy efficiency, transfer of technology in energy production and the development of domestic technology. Our strategy has energy supplies and security at its head. Our strategy in the coming period is to provide the supplies of energy resources that we need, despite the economic instability of the world, with the right, the safest, and the lowest cost, to reduce our imports, as well as to produce technologies in our country using our country's potential for energy use. Natural gas energy supply security... we have to strengthen infrastructure to give our citizens more natural gas comfort. In the period until 2015, we brought about 78 percent natural gas in Turkey. With nearly 13 million subscribers, we have made major investments in Turkey's natural gas campaign at the point where our cities and counties meet clean energy with 13 billion cubic metres per year. In 2016 alone, we have established an investment that exceeds 600 million TL by the end of this year. We set up a 351km high-pressure natural gas pipeline. With 5 more, we provided the supply to Tunceli, Sinop, Mardin, Mush and Bingol. We've got 17 counties ready at the gas supply point. We supplied 2 new OSBs and many different points of natural gas. In 2016, we'll be opening the first group storage vault at the Salt Lake Natural Gas Underground Project next month, hopefully. We've taken major investments in LNG technologies, which developed for supply security in our time of power, and the market is on the move. We took the infrastructure to different locations in mobile ships, not just at the point of expansion of LNG terminals, but at the end of the year, to Turkey for the first time to meet the urgent demand for natural gas supply, and this month, by the end of the year, we will open it in İzmir. We're starting to focus more on the advantageous win-win projects, not only on guaranteeing our supply safety in natural gas, but on improving infrastructure, but on strengthening our strategic position. We said we have three criteria, if we want Turkey to be at the point of taking part in the international projects in the regional framework. One: A project must demonstrate for Turkey, at the point of the parties, that both sides win. Two: energy should contribute to the region's supply security. Three: it should contribute to regional and global peace. We thought we'd be Turkey in any project that could provide them. As a matter of fact, TANAP is one of the most successful projects in the world in the last decade at the point of implementation of this strategy. When we look at it next, in relation to this, the Turkic Sea is coming to the stage. As you know, in October, on the basis of the World Energy Congress, we signed a very important agreement with Russia, the Turkish language. Turkey and Turkey are not going to increase at the point of natural gas dependence on Russia. On the contrary, at the point that the gas supplied from Western Stream to Turkey -- which is now bypassed by the inter-states -- allowed Turkey to enter Turkey directly from the manufacturer -- came up as an important project that would make Turkey an important regional centre for moving supply security through Turkey to second and third markets. Another project, Eastern Mediterranean gas. The eastern Mediterranean gas, along with its discoveries over the last few years, is of serious importance to the region's consumption. As a matter of fact, we've been taking serious steps in this project over the past few months with important talks. Which is not only the largest consumer in Turkey's energy market, but is a project that will pave the way for alternative markets in the region through its stable economy and infrastructure, as well as the three main goals that I consider to be going to serve, and this project is an important agenda as well as the value of joining Turkey. We're putting together a very important, intensive shift, not just with the workforces, but with the resources we have, or the search abroad, and the production work, without slowing down. The second base of our strategy is electrical supply security. It's just been mentioned, and questions like that often come in. Turkey has to improve its infrastructure, not just capacity growth, as it performs its growth. In order to meet Turkey's need for older infrastructure and growth-based capacity increase in investment plan for five years this year, we have announced a budget, including 18 billion euros in private sectors, 21 distribution companies, 12 billion TİAS, public hand, about 30 billion euros in transport lines infrastructure, cables, poles, transformers. This, of course, is based on Turkey's growth and the improvement of regional regression. In the coming years -- especially the different regions of Turkey -- have been mentioned -- with improvements that will surround all of its regions, hopefully, Turkey will move this sector to a point that will make Turkey successful again, as in every sector. We'll do that in the Ministry of Energy, as we do in our other ministries.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0446par0480	How much is it now, Mr. Secretary? In 2016, we invested only 36 kilowatts, 380 kilowatts, 1.444km of energy line infrastructure, with only 41 380 kilowatts of 4.975 megawatters/trafo power, and in this frame, with only the public-special hand, we invested 2.5 billion in TEIAS, about 3 billion in private sectors, with about 6 billion euros in private sectors, with six times the old money. So, is that all the resource diversity? From day one, we've been saying that it's more local and more renewable. Turkey has to take significant steps, especially at the renewable point, at the point where resource diversity reduces external dependency at the potential of Turkey. As a matter of fact, we have announced our YEKA Project on Turkey's renewable production center, not only at the point where the solar and wind potential will be implemented as a production capacity, but also at Turkey's production capacity, including local technology and domestic engineers. Our first announcement was that of some of you, the project that we announced within the framework of the sun's YEKA. Here we set the standard of domestic and domestic production for the first year, 65 per cent for the second year, 75 per cent for the second year, and there's no editing in it. Someone says: They're coming, they're editing, they're domestic. It's not like that, we've put an 80 percent domestic engineer condition on it, and hopefully we'll get the same in the first quarter of next year in the wind energy generation in the locals. And the Indian? When I said native, I said coal. We need to see very clearly this image of coal: there is more than 40 percent coal source in electricity production around the world. Even when we look at primary energy consumption, coal is 30 percent. Someone's always giving us advice, saying clean energy, Europe and all that, but I have to rephrase these numbers -- human Nisyan and malul. The amount of coal in European electricity production is 84 per cent of Poland, Germany 45 per cent, Britain 39 per cent, Romania 38 per cent, Denmark 34 per cent -- China 75 per cent, India 73 per cent, America 35 per cent. What about us? We have 15 and a half billion tons of coal, at least one more times our power set up, so we can do 10,000 megawatts more than 10,000 megawatts. Now, compared to last year, we've got an electric portfolio of domestic coals from 13 to 18 percent. This year we've raised 13 percent to 18 percent, we're moving it to a good point, we're going to increase it, let's say everyone is welcome, especially our new investments. However, in all this framework, from clean energy, environmental factors -- someone is telling us that we need to express this -- we're not going to compromise environmental factors within the framework of our new resources, which we've actually found in the last decade, with about 7.5 billion tons of coal reserves that we've found in the last decade; Afyon, Eskişehir, Thrace, Iconia, in these areas. Look, I'll quickly express the environmental factors in our last termic power plant requirements: when we look at the boundary values of 1 cubic meter of normal air that Europe has set the criteria for 2024 and after, 40 micrograms per day in particulate matter cannot exceed 23 micrograms in our condition. Sulfur, another 1 cubic meter of air 125 micrograms, and we have the upper bound 33.7. The nitrogen rate is 200 micrograms, we have 134. Now, who's going to hit more environmental points, and I think these numbers are going to shine a very serious light. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, are these discoveries enough? It's not. We've started a major drilling process. It's a Turkey that drills about 25 million metres throughout the history of the Republic, and the average depth is 200 to 300 meters. Today, Canada is drilling for 10 million metres per year and 6 million metres in Australia. We've got the total public, special 2 million meters. Three hundred and fifty thousand meters of this... In 2002, Turkey, which drilled at 30,000 metres, also performed well by our past ministers, to the 300-350,000 metres per year. But we said that the new era, since we now have to overcome ourselves as an AK PARTY, we have to move on to the goal of 3 million meters per year, with a special public (MTA) at least 1 million meters per year. With the goal of rising to at least 5 million metres after 2018, 2017, we must increase Turkey's underground wealth, drilling activities. Now, we've carried out two very important issues in mining in 2016. One: In order to archive data and carotids obtained during the search and production of mines, we have established the Turkish locators data and carotid information bank, which, hopefully, will also be opened as a physical location this summer. And other than that, we will quickly start operations in March by installing resource and reserve reporting systems in national mines that ensure that activities in the mining sector are carried out according to international standards. Is that enough? No. We'll complete the geophysical and geophysical maps from air and land by mapping the whole of Turkey by 2018, hopefully. In this framework, where we evaluate the main topics of our goals and strategies in the new era, we generally want to talk about a lot of things with many axes that serve the interests of Turkey and plan and implement this strategy. In this framework, we received the chairmanship of the Energy Club, as of 2017, to Turkey, which is a dialogue partner in the Shanghai Co-operation Organization, one of the troops we consider to be an important unit and closely followed. What does that mean? The Shanghai Co-operation Agency, especially in the energy field, is the head of perhaps the world's largest agencies. In particular, 36% of electricity production in electricity production is an organization that produces 23 percent of natural gas production and about 21 percent of crude oil. Of course, there is much to discuss as we approach the end of my term. As Turkey, we are taking very important steps, especially in the field of energy, and we will continue to take them.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0447par0489	That's too much, sir, that's too much.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0448par0490	Even though they try to threaten us behind closed doors, and try to frighten us from shadows and from behind shadows, we will fear nothing by the permission of God. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] There's a very important point here. We will know ourselves, we will know our people, we will know our Lord, is there any answer to the word? We're not going to send a message from the shadows to those who bark, but to the bitches who pull the strings of those who bark. Do you know what message we're going to send? I'm going to tell you something that's going to make these bitches even more angry in the next semester.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0447par0493	This conversation is not very good, Minister. That wasn't a good speech.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0448par0494	You know what I'm gonna explain? In the coming period in Turkey's energy trade, especially and especially...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0449par0495	There's a lot taken in.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0450par0496	For example, explain the thesis so we can find out.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0451par0498	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0452par0499	Anyone who's hurt gets hurt. The one with the wound, the one with the wound, the one with the wound.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0453par0501	Anyone who's hurt gets hurt. Investigators!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0454par0502	He'll explain the thesis, the thesis, the thesis.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0453par0503	It's none of your business, leave it! Are you an embezzler or a colonist?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0454par0504	For God's sake, let it go! Get off me, Metin Ash! Explain your thesis here!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0455par0505	In particular, look, especially when you're dealing with him, you're dealing with him. A man, a man, a man, a slander if he has one, a proof if he has one.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0453par0507	He talks about independence, he talks about freedom.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0456par0508	Congressmans, please, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0455par0509	We do not put any shoes on them, but we know ourselves and our Lord. Now, we're taking another step that's going to piss someone off, and look, everybody listen here, and I'm talking to the national opposition, so if there's a national opposition, let them listen, and I'm saying something to the country's best interests.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0457par0512	First we need national power.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0455par0513	Now, Turkey is beginning to trade with national money, especially in energy policies, in the new era, with countries where it creates a large volume of energy. Do you know what that means?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0457par0514	You haven't done this in 14 years. Was it unofficial then?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0458par0515	How much money did you save, by the way?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0455par0516	That means something very important. Oh, we're not afraid again. Again, I call to those who are in charge of their ropes and their bark: We fear nothing but God. May God be with you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0459par0519	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0460par0520	Why didn't you explain your dissertation unless you were afraid of God? Explain how you did it.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0461par0521	You never mentioned electricity prices, you never mentioned consumption.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0460par0522	You're all fake! Your diploma is fake and your thesis is fake!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0461par0523	It's a very ordinary conversation.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0462par0524	Now, it's time for Mr. Faruk Çelik, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, we are in your presence on the basis of the 2017 budget of our Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. I salute you with respect, with love. First of all, I want to thank all the friends for their opposition here. Agriculture, of course, you appreciate, is a strategic sector, and the area is a national issue, and our future is a matter of interest. So I said that I wouldn't be involved in a political approach when it came to neither today nor yesterday nor in the future, and I repeat, and I'm not going to be here anymore. This matter of agriculture and the future of agriculture is a matter of all of us. I'd like to thank the friends here who are positive, guiding, who have given their opinion based on their experience. I mean, we're going to take advantage of this, but there are some political evaluations. I'd like to point out that I respect these things as well as the possibility of them being in the budget. Now, before we move on to our assessments here, I would like to point out that if it's a strategic sector, I'm going to talk about a few issues about the present and future of this sector, and then I'm going to talk about the issues, not the response to the dear friends who are talking about it here, but the clarity. After the industrialization revolution, as you know, agriculture has been pushed a little bit to the second grade, left a little bit behind, industry has stepped forward, and as a result, it's not going to go this way. Why? There is a growing world population, so food is needed. There's a shrinking of farmland in the world. There's a problem with this frame. There are climate changes, there are water shortages, and there are serious difficulties with access to food. And when you take that into account, the importance of agriculture is getting more and more important. 40 per cent of the world's population are employed in agriculture. Seventy-five percent of the world's poor are the primary livelihoods of the agricultural sector. Besides, 1 billion people are extremely poor, 800 million people are hungry, officially hungry, facing hunger, intertwined. We see that 1.4 billion people are also overweight. Each year, 1.4 billion tonnes of food are wasted, and those in the richest 20 percent of the world consume 77 per cent of the total food; 20 per cent of the rich slice consume 77 per cent of the food. There is food in 34 countries and water in 80 countries. We live in a world of inequality. This is the detection of our present state. So, what is to come tomorrow about agriculture, about food, about us, about the world, about humanity? When we look at it, it's estimated that 700 million people will leave their homes by 2030. In 2050, the world's population will reach 9.5 billion, and in the event that agricultural production does not increase by 60 per cent, the world's humanity will face greater famines, major disasters, all relevant areas and research. Today we face the fact that storms for oil and gas will break for food and water in the very near future. Here, we need to look at our own country from this frame. When we look at it, we have 24 million hectares of agricultural land, we have 14.6 million hectares of land, we have 1 million hectares of water, we have over 2 million farmers registered to the CKS, and as a result of that, we produce 115 million tonnes of plant production, we produce 24 million tons of animal production, we have $147 billion of agricultural product, we have $16.8 billion in exports, and when we do that, we have over 90 billion of farms, which is what we're doing, we're doing, and we're doing that, we're doing that, we're doing that, and we're doing that, we're doing that, and we're doing that, we're doing that, and we're doing that, we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and we're doing that, and Now, before we take the word of our dear friends here again, before the November 1st elections, we had some decisions that we had made, you know, we said: let's remove the VAT from the Debre, let's remove the VAT from the feed. We removed 8 percent of the food from the fertilizer. We were first supported by companies that produced certified saplings, rehab of olive gardens, fruit and vegetables in agricultural land under five acres in 2016. It's about nuts: We continue to support the manufacturers for 170 euros each. Nut prices are really good right now.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0463par0537	No, it's not.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0464par0538	I mean, we're going to play with people who play with nuts. And I'm making that very clear here. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] As part of the grant project for young farmers, 15,000 projects will be covered in 2016 and a grant of 450m euros will continue in 2016, 2017, 2018.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0463par0541	Let's do it product-based, product-based. I'd like to point out here that our government, our government, has extended a positive distinction here, and that we support our women farmers in this positive discrimination. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Let's give him product-based support, Minister. Now, dear friends, of course, there are some things that are right in the assessments of fellow reviewers, and I have to say that by handing them over. It is said that our lands must be protected. Here, almost all speakers have expressed it. It's a very right criticism, it's true criticism, but I told you, it's a national issue; it's not the issue of this period, this party, this party, this party, it's a matter of our children and our generations. Now, I'm looking at the numbers, between 1989 and 2002, which is a total of 1.5 million hectares of land that has been out of agriculture for 13 years. Now, between 2002-2016, again in the thirteen-year period -- mainly our time -- this is 1.2 million hectares of land out of agriculture in our time as well. Sir, we're less than 300,000 hectares, and you're less like 300,000 hectares. As a result, the farmland is getting smaller and smaller. Where? On Earth. Where? In Turkey. Then what are we supposed to do? We need to take measures that we need to take rather than talk about them. As of right now, we've located 184 plains, and we're continuing to detect them. 184 plains are now signed by the Council of Ministers, and we declare them agricultural sites, and I want to make it very clear that there can't even be a nail stuck here. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Second, we need the soil, not us; we come from the ground, and we go to the ground as a result. Well, we need the soil, so we need to protect the soil well. On a scale alone, it's good that we protect agricultural land as large as possible, but also the quality of the soil is extremely important. If the soil loses its quality, if it's inefficient, it means nothing; land or no soil. So, we've identified 941 basins, this 941 basin fertilizer manual for each basin at the moment. Why? We have to provide that in terms of the quality of the soil. So, according to the soil's needs, we're going to get our farmers to formulate the organic, microbial, and chemical fertilizers, which formulate the fertilizer that we need in that basin. I mean, it's our first duty to protect the land, but to say that it's much more important to preserve the quality of the soil. There's no planning for production here, our friends said. Well, now, there are products that are our open basin; besides, there are strategic and regional products. Taking into consideration, we divided Turkey into 941 basins, and the reason why we moved to the Basin Support Model is because of the lack of it. So, right now, he's going to go into harm's way. We're not saying that he's going into practice, he's going into practice, and Turkey has put the Basin Support Model into practice. There were 19 products under these benefits, and we added two more. Peace be upon Nevşehir, and upon Niğde, and onion with the potatoes.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0465par0551	What about the tangerines, the tangerines? Now, of course, we're short on livestock, red meat. I mean, like I said, it's all our business, we need to talk together. We're eating more meat, we're up to 15 kilos per person, consumption has come from 7 kilos to 15 kilos.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0463par0553	Come on, Minister, don't. Tourism may not have gone well this year, but when you look at it from a tourism perspective, it's a very serious consumption. There are refugees. Considering these, Turkey produces 1,150,000 tonnes of meat, and it consumes 1,300,000 tons of meat; how much short do we have in between? We're 150,000 tons short. Well, we're now promoting mercurial animalism in 30 counties within the framework of the National Agriculture Project. There's a lot of serious support. Our dear speaker friends expressed it here. We're building heifer centers in 30 counties. Again, coach, we're building goat centers and breeding buffalo centers in 11 counties. What's the point? Our goal is to get a citizen who wants to be an animal is to go from these centers to any race he wants to take the animal of the species without means and at a very affordable price -- because we support it -- to buy these at a reasonable cost. Again, something important. The calf deaths were pronounced here. That's right, it's a big problem. Just as we've spent so many years working on preventing children's deaths and getting to a more positive point today than the world's standard, we've done our work on animals and calves very seriously, and hopefully we're giving incentives to prevent serious losses in this area, which are also disadvantaged in our economy.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0466par0556	The births are over, Mr. Secretary. So you're going to get vaccines, you're going to grow them up to four months, you're going to get support up to 750 TL. Again, the other issue is the less than 1% of the GDP. Friends, the 21st article of the Agricultural Law is clear, it says: "Tarital support." It doesn't say "Nakdi support." What's the point without agricultural support? In addition to our cash support for $12.8 billion, the moment you pay attention to a number of articles such as export incentives, credit subsidies, purchases by TMO (TMO) and ESK (ESK), land collection and field development, in 2015, an illegal domestic product worth $1 trillion 953 billion is 19.592 million, which is equivalent to one percent. So I'm going to express this in particular to say that we're doing this account very carefully.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0467par0559	So we don't have food shortages! There's government if the input costs are high; there's power, there's the Ministry. I mean, it doesn't matter if something's high or low after you've become a government in charge of your agenda. Today, for example, the Economic Council met; Turkish economic attacks against salvos are taking precautions due to certain processes in Turkey. Why? Because the government has your agenda.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0468par0562	If it wasn't for the judge, we'd be screwed. If that was the judge, what would have happened if it wasn't for the judge? So, now, what are we doing here? We have 18 percent VAT down in the fertilizer, 8 percent VAT down in the bait, and we say in the mazotta that we, the government, are with our farmer, and we say that we will give 50% support. Agricultural loan co-ops give us about five months of non-interested diesel related to diesel. And perhaps we'll be able to share with you new assessments of the seed support and fertilizer that we're about to announce in the coming days. In agriculture, our dependency is expressed. Friends, Turkey is an exporting country in net agriculture. I mean, let's not make this kind of non-information assessment and make a mistake to our country.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0469par0565	We even take the tomato seed from the outside, Minister. You gave an example of wheat, for example. And I'll give you this example: there's a 7.5 billion-dollar bonus in wheat foreign trade in this period. Sir, whatever it is, it's... Why are we importing it? We import seeds, Minister. Even the seed of the tomato comes from Israel. Look, there's $7.5 billion left in the wheat trade, plus negative output. So it's not an arbitrary assessment of these matters, it's a job to look at. We're getting the seed from the outside. We have 136 universities. Excuse me. Now, the Netherlands is being sampled. Friends, the Dutch agricultural product is $14.5 billion. How much is it for agricultural imports?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0470par0572	Oh, please don't use the word "dolar"! It's $62.5 million. How much is the agricultural export? 92.5 million dollars. Now, they have $30 million pluses. Where? It converts raw matter into material, Holland. It's not agricultural. So the Netherlands doesn't have a $100 billion agricultural product, the Netherlands has $14.5 billion. Mr. President, let's turn it into Turkish lira. So you take the wheat, you convert it into flour, and we convert it into $7.5 billion in profit. That's not the wrong point of view, I'm just saying that to express it.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0471par0576	Is Holland doing something wrong? There was something said here about the harvest of hay. Guys, look, in 2015, Turkey produced 26 million tons of hay. So 4,000 tons of operators -- a citizen -- bought straw, wrapped in tongues. 4,000 tons where, 26 million tons where!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0472par0578	It's been ten years since we opened, Minister. I've expressed this in order to satisfy this lack of information. Yeah, well, you're gonna say it, so it's the opposition's job to say it, and we're saying it in terms of the need to fix it.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0471par0581	Let's shut up, Minister! I've already stated that we're going to do the agricultural inventory study in 2017, we're developing a business-based management understanding on this issue, so agriculture inventory is being done in 2017, and we're going to be sharing it with you. It's not true, we're being too sensitive. There are demands all over Turkey in a dense way, in the form that all of our fellow MPs are going to be a zone of industry, organized industriality, but they will be assigned to animals who will come to you in the days ahead of us. I'd like to point out from here that it will be assigned to the single animal workers. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The Meat and Milk Foundation is doing important work.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0473par0586	No, no, we'll sit down and talk, no. For the first time in the history of the Republic, for the first time in the history of the Meat and Milk Foundation, he stepped in because of the decline in milk prices. There is a price set by the National Milk Council.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0471par0588	How much? GIDE, AGREE AND ANIMALITY SEARCH - $1.15. Someone's saying it's 40 cents today. Now, he's setting the price. Who? Milk Council, we're not there. There are representatives of the industry there, they're setting it up. A friend said 40 cents. The moment this fell, the Meat and Milk Foundation came in last year for the regulatory of this. We'll continue in years to come, and we'll protect our manufacturer. But, friends, look at the developments in Europe, look at the developments around us. More than 20 per cent milk prices fell in Europe. It's also true that all markets are affected when prices are there, whether they're there or not.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0474par0594	Read the Court reports of the Meat and Fish Foundation, Mr. Secretary. Look, another thing -- my last minutes -- is the purchase party. They said: 'This is what happens in my area. So? When you look at the purchase party, the farmers are at a disadvantage. There is no such thing. Look, I'll give you an example. You'll get a tractor with wheat. Let's look at the mazota, mazota. If you're going to buy in 2001, 2002, you're going to give 65 tons of wheat so you can get one tractor. How much is it now? 44 tons. Now, you're getting 44 tons of one tractor. Do the math on the diesel. You'll get a refrigerator. If you're going to buy a refrigerator, you're going to give it 4 tons, 4.5 tons of wheat.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0475par0600	Mr. Secretary, calculate the diesel! Put that down, calculate the diesel! But now you can buy the fridge with two tons of wheat. That's a lot of numbers, that's a lot of numbers. Compared to the diesel, compared to the diesel! Sir, the farmer is down a million. There is no such thing. There is no such number.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0476par0604	The villages left by 1.5 million farmers are empty. Sir, what are you doing in Sudan? Friends, if you can't produce a product in your country's ecology, if you can't produce enough, why not take advantage of it? No, he's renting the land, Minister. No, Minister, the private sector is going to Sudan. Don't! Let's sit down one day and talk. Is it right for you to watch while developed countries in the world, developed countries in Africa, divide parts of Africa? I'm also in the belief that the horizon of opposition will be opened. Let's see what's going on.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0477par0610	Very pink, Minister, very pink! Now, in rural development...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0478par0612	Mr. Secretary, your last words, please, I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0479par0613	But let's compare the diesel, Mr. Secretary. Sir, of course, there are no problems to be said in agriculture, but let me put it this way...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0480par0615	Let's talk about food, Mr. Secretary. Our budget for the year 2017 is 19 billion, 537,920,000. 12 billion 838 million euros are support for the farmer, or 66 percent support for the farmer. I'm here to thank the Council of Parliament and the party groups, the very valued employees of our Ministry, our Plan and Budget Commission and all the bureaucracy of the Ministry of Finance, all the working friends and deputies here who have done their job.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0481par0618	No opposition? I wish you luck. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0482par0621	Now it's about to be against...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0483par0622	Mr. President, I want word on 60.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0484par0623	Mr. President, I'd like to speak of bullying according to Article 69, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0482par0624	Congressmans, one moment, sir. Now I'm going to promise against it. I'll listen to you. I give you my word now against Mr. Mehmet Göker. Here you go, Mr. Göker. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Göker, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0485par0630	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. After listening to the ministers, I wonder if we live in the same country personally. None of this has anything to do with the paintings we've seen or encountered. Because the budget is a vision, a goal. So, I'm asking you: in the budgets you've done in the past, you've achieved inflation, growth, unemployment, which one of them have you achieved success? In fact, the person who invests in the dollar stays on foot. You said, as of this point, the citizen is on foot. The Minister just said, "We're in control of the situation." If that's control, we can't even think about the situation you don't have. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] According to Mr. President's own statement, we have learned that he had $200,000 in the bank on the date before he entered the election. Between this statement and the alleged date it was cashed in, it earned 280,000 liras due to the difference in currency. Now, I'd like to ask you, is the national president of one country investing in another country's money instead of investing in his own money? [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'm calling on the President to help the families of our fallen soldiers who live without plaster while fighting terrorism with this money. You are taxed by your provisions, you are taxed by the tax, you are taxed by the VAT. Not enough, you make a bridge of the throat, you attach the passage to the dollar. You have justice in your name, not in your practices. We're learning from the Prime Minister's statements that the Chief of Staff can't control a colonel he says is taking orders from a petty officer. In fact, that would be a misdemeanor offense. Now, you can't change horses when you're crossing the creek. We agree with you, but with this head, will this horse pass through this stream?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0486par0640	It won't pass, Mehmet.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0485par0641	As you know, Burdur is a city of agriculture and livestock. In Burdur, the meat and milk supply, our manufacturer is struggling with problems. Mr. Secretary, in the last budget, a year ago, I passed it on here as the top price of milk is 1.15, and the milk is still sold as the upper limit than 1.15. The farmer can't afford all this gas, all this fertilizer increase. We're already aware that the increases are not being taken into account. In addition, the reality of the situation is clearer, given that the price of $1.15 is the price of the ceiling and that the liter of raw milk on the free market finds a buyer for an average of 80 to 90 cents. Let it not be forgotten that the peasant is the master of the nation, and if the peasant is finished, we're all doomed. Let's just say the manufacturer somehow sold his milk, couldn't get the price in time, so he's facing an extended deadline of up to three months. The farmer is in economic loss. In addition, some firms take their milk, but if you take my bait in return, they bring it in, and they still apply it. Moreover, the milk producers have serious concerns and complaints about the quality and content of the oath. Let's get to the end. As I couldn't figure out this budget, I couldn't solve the riddle asked by my constituent three days ago. As the budget makers, if you'll help us here, we'll be grateful to you for solving this riddle. The question and riddle is that he has a palace, not a king; he has planes, not a captain; he has money; he has a degree; he doesn't exist.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0487par0645	Get out of here!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0488par0646	He's got a 52% vote, tell him that.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0489par0647	He's got 52 percent of the vote, President. Add that to that, it doesn't work that way. 52%, President, add this.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0488par0648	That's not classy.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0490par0649	Gentlemen, answer me if you know. Believe me, I've thought about it for three days, guys, and I can't find the answer. I called my same voter again today, and I said, "Do you have any leads?" Can you give us this clue? He told me: "He has a phone, he has a crypt, he's got a safe full of dollars, he's got a long hand, he's got a long hand, he's got a lot of people around him." Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0491par0653	He's got 52 percent of the vote, President.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0492par0654	It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0493par0655	Didn't the chairman's advisor come forward?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0494par0656	Thank you, Mr. Göker.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0495par0657	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0494par0658	Mr. Master, come in, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0495par0659	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Minister of Energy, he made a statement in the form of the group... if there were any national opposition, a little rancid, a little sarcastic. I'd like to make a statement based on 69.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0494par0660	Now, Mr. Master, the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources used the concept of a national opposition. Are you taking it as an insult to your group because he said it by looking at your group?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0495par0661	Yes, sir, I want to talk to you about teasing.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0494par0662	Mr. Master, I don't think it's just a taunt from the looks.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0495par0663	It's in the sentence, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0494par0664	Sir?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0495par0665	It's not just the look; it's the look and the sentence, when you think about the concept together.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0494par0666	So, by saying "national opposition," you're taking credit for being an opposition party.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0495par0667	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0494par0668	I can promise, of course, if you say so, but he meant us by looking. If you say so, I can't.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0495par0669	Yes, that's exactly what I'm saying, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0494par0670	Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0495par0675	Thank you. There's probably no doubt that we're nationals. Now, first of all, the business of this domestic money, let me say this is our November 1st election declaration. There's a statement on page 124 of this, policy:, by balancing Turkish lira, there will be more use of national currency within the framework of bilateral trade agreements. I mean, that's our policy, that's our commitment; that's one. Second, of course, I find the Minister's policy correct, I support it. I'm glad the AKP or Mr. Minister has come to this point. It's admirable. Otherwise, we know how they view nationalism, nationalism, so we know where they position it. But, for us, it's very admirable, we'd be happy. But I also want you to know that there's an economic problem here. Now, for example, our export to Russia, the number 2015, $3.6 billion, our import is $20.4 billion. We have a serious foreign trade deficit. Now, when you're importing, you're going to give you rubles, you're going to get dollars in exports. There's a $17 billion deficit. Where are we going to get this ruble? I mean, what's he gonna do with your TL for $17 billion? You'll get that ruble by cashing in dollars. So, while this is the right policy, I want you to know that there are limits to this policy.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0496par0680	They're just fooling people.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0495par0681	Now, I've brought the document from our discussion with the Minister of Transport, and I'd like a document from him.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0497par0682	Where's the 2nd article?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0495par0683	Here's the statement: The policy will be taken by the contractor to ensure that airport, passenger and air traffic is not interrupted during the construction of operations. I mean, it's called not to be disturbed, but they're saying they're going to miss three months in their practice right now. I sent him the video. In the video, I won't abide by the requirement, brother." I sent it to him, and I can send it to the MPs if they want it. In other words, Mr. Secretary, I understand that you're bragging about this. Now, you're saying that Mr. President said this, and you've also made Mr. Prime Minister say that the production of electricity energy has increased 102.3 percent during our administration. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I will, Mr. President. Right, good, thirteen years, but now, while you're saying it, you have to brag about it, you have to look at the previous thirteen years. How much has it increased in the last 13 years? Up 149.6%. So it's wrong not to see him, but just to put things in your own world and position no one as if they don't understand numbers. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0498par0690	Thank you, Mr. Master. 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account Congressmans, the talks in the third round are complete. Now, let's move on to the question-answer process. Initiating question process. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0499par0741	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking Mr. Minister of Transport: On October 29, 2010, I was also head of state at the opening ceremony of the Cankurtaran Tunnel in Artvin. At the time, the Minister of Transport said: "It will be delivered in nine hundred and ten days, according to the terms of the contract. The contractor called the owners of the firm, and I'll give you their names: one Esat Ulül and one of them a gentleman named Bilal Steel. They negotiated. He said: "You will deliver it in seven hundred and ninety days. " The representatives of the company who received these two tenders misled the Prime Minister. Two hundred and sixty days have passed, seventy-two months have passed, Mr. Secretary, and there is no tunnel. I wonder what you'll say. You just drew a very pink picture, you said the Avrusian Tunnel, you said that, you said that. Why don't you open the Lifesaver Tunnel? Why didn't you open it in seventy-two months? I wonder if the businessmen who misled the Prime Minister, who deceived him, were the men who deceived him because everyone's fooling everyone, so I'm wondering if this is a...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0498par0744	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0500par0745	I'm asking the Minister of Agriculture. 1) How many agricultural engineers, veterinarians, water products engineers and food engineers do you intend to appoint for 2017? 2) Farmers were victims of low market prices. Most of them are seriously in debt using mortgage loans. Do you, by any chance, plan to erase or postpone or instalment the farmer's debt? 3) The licensed vet expires on March 20, 2017. Can you tell me about the condition of these? 4) In the past few days, the sale of treasured land across Turkey has been made. Treasure land has been first sold to the people they've worked with, but they've had a very difficult time dealing with low prices in their products. They couldn't pay for the land they bought or the installments. Do you intend to make a new arrangement for the restructuring of debts so that these individuals do not lose their rights? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0501par0751	Mr. Necati Yilmaz...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0502par0752	Mr. Secretary, the most important measure of a power's legitimacy is based on human rights. I wanted to remind you, even though you're uncomfortable hearing it. Only two days left until the Day of Human Rights on December 10th. On that day, the whole world will discuss the tyranny and corruption of cruel and despotic governments, violating human rights, and unfortunately, they will talk a lot about your power and your works. 72,104,440000,5,406,7 million,20 million,18.502... these numbers are not only numbers, Mr. Secretary, but also people; women who have been fired, children who have been murdered, women who have been killed, unemployed, poor, people who have died from a business accident; I want to remind you, Mr. Secretary. I wanted to remind you that the world is going to talk a lot about you, the State of Emergency, the arrested 146 journalists, scientists, the closed press organizations, the MPs.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0501par0754	Mr. Doğan Türkmen...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0503par0755	Thank you, Mr. President. There have been promises made to our region over the last two elections -- the regional Dukurova airport, the Adana express train -- and by the way, I'm going to ask about the Bussa express train -- where are they coming from? The invitations I sent to my countrymen for the Adana rally were unfortunately blocked by Adana PTT and are being distributed after today. Are you going to do anything about those responsible? And again, there was talk of the success of the land collection. Adana Karataş, unfortunately, is a victim of all our citizens in Tuzla, and they all rebel. Do you intend to do something about it? You promised 720,000 subcontractors a staff. You were supposed to fulfill your promise in November last year. It's been thirteen months, what are you going to do?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0504par0759	Mr. Mehmet Erdogan...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0505par0760	Thank you, Mr. President. My first questions to the Minister of Transport: When will our citizens pass free from the Göcek Tunnel? Gene, we have two airports in Mugla, but since there are no flights to our great city during the summer, other than Ankara and Istanbul, our tourists have no share in domestic tourism. Again, the movers give you their love and respect for the money they give to documents that the alphabet doesn't cover, sir, because of the insurance premiums and the gas prices. Mr. Minister of Agriculture, again, greenhouses and citrus manufacturers wanted to close the doors of Congress today with products they couldn't sell. The honey producers, unfortunately, can't sell their products, and the weight of the honey they produce is now down to six or seven liras. None of your support for solving the problems of our farmers, our producers, is good for the manufacturer. They're expecting support for marketing.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0506par0765	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0507par0766	Thank you, Mr. President. How many times has the Public Contraction Act changed? Question 2: How many personnel work in Şanlıurfa Province of Ayyübiye Municipality? How many of these employees are the mayor and the mayor's relatives? Question 3) Is the tender at Job's municipality legal? Question 4) The President shouts, says change the dollar, break it, break it. He's poor, if he's got any, he's cashing in his dollar. Turkish Airlines, however, is receiving an aircraft tender for $78m. Is that cheating on the people? The question 5) Are the four ministers using their own personal e-mails in government affairs, in correspondence, or are they being used by government-owned, state-owned, government-owned government e-mails? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0508par0773	Mr. Aksu...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0509par0774	Thank you. The Ottomangazi Bridge is paid to the firm under the guarantee of $10m per week, according to preliminary figures. That means the cost of the bridge will be paid in two years. You've stated that the road connections are still in progress. So, isn't it a planning error, a waste of resources, to be paid this much in advance in two years? What are the effects of our banks on capital competency ratios if the market interest has increased? Is there any risk analysis of the banking sector, any study of them, if you have any, would you share them with us? Why don't you consider turning to Turkmen and Azerbaijan instead of an additional addiction to Russia in the import? Do problems with the status of the source country have any effect on your preference? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0510par0779	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0511par0780	Thank you, Mr. President. I have two questions for the Minister. One: You have stated on page 75 of our presentation that the main harmful Mediterranean fruit fly of the citrus is being fought primarily in Mersin and the surrounding provinces. Will our producers be able to recover from the negativity from the Mediterranean fruit fly next year? Will the extradition of export products cease with the use of unconscious drugs? Two: Laborant and veterinary health department graduates between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism are in great despair. They're waiting for job descriptions. Young people entering this department with high hopes are disappointed that they can't find a job after graduating. If it's going to go on like this, shouldn't this section be closed? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0512par0784	Mr. Gökdağ...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0513par0785	Mr. Secretary, we've discussed the budgets of the Ministry of Religious Affairs and Human Rights and Equality. There's one important thing you don't want to remember in these talks: Mr. Secretary, this country has millions of Alevi-based citizens. Like all of our citizens, they pay their taxes very well, contribute to the budget. However, the belief in Alevi continues to be ignored by your governments. Supreme court proceedings and the European Court of Human Rights verdicts have also been registered in the judicial sense that the Cemevs are the center of faith in Alevi. In the previous government programme, the government was committed to providing legal status to its institutions, and the government did not even schedule the issue. The Alevis want legal status for their camisoles. This is one of the most basic human rights. How much longer are you going to block your ears, how much longer are you going to ignore them? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0512par0787	Mr. Radish...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0514par0788	32 million tons of stone coal cost our country about $4 billion. In this sense, what are your thoughts on TK's labour deficit and the economicisation of the stone coal needed by Turkey? So you're going to get to the point where you're not supposed to be national, you're going to get to the point? Will Zonguldak Teacuma Saltukova Airport open for domestic flights, and does the Ministry have any work on it? What is the reason why our Zonguldak province's territorial infrastructure has not been completed and your power has not contributed enough? It's about the third airport subway, so why was it an invitation? What's the average unit prices in the world, miles per station? Is the location of the third airport changed? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0515par0793	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0516par0794	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister of Transport: Niğde has been waiting 14 years with hope for the airport. Do you say anything specific about the construction of the airport to Niğde (Nigde) in 2017? Is there a high-speed train project in central Niğde? You're saying that the Niğde-Ankara highway will be built, how many kilometers, how many kilometers will it be in 2017? I ask the Minister of Energy: Will any investments be made for the Niğde Bor Energy Development District in 2017? Otherwise, is the road between Zengen-Post in Niğde considered to be a double road? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0517par0801	Thank you, Mr. Gürer. Now, I promise the government answers.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0518par0803	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0517par0804	The first word is for the Deputy Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0518par0805	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0519par0806	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0517par0807	Just a moment, Mr. Vice Prime Minister...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0518par0808	There is a very important problem with the van.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0517par0809	Now, members of lawmakers, you see, the question-answer process...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0518par0810	It's not the time, I'll have to ask when I've found the Minister.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0517par0811	Sir?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0518par0812	I must ask the question when the Minister has found it.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0517par0813	I couldn't hear you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0518par0814	I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary a question about Van. He has a very important problem.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0517par0815	Now, lawmakers, the duration of the question-answer process is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0518par0816	I'm asking you for a tolerance, and there's a serious problem with the van.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0517par0817	Ten minutes of this are reserved for questions, ten minutes are reserved for answers; ten minutes are over.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0518par0818	I'll have to ask while I've found our transport minister.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0517par0819	Please, look, there's a lot of lawmakers coming up, and I didn't promise anyone.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0518par0820	I'll read it very briefly.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0517par0821	Here you are, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0520par0822	Thank you, Mr. President. Are there evaluations and measures being taken in the context of the developments in Mr. Aksu's banking sector's capital efficiency rasio? Of course, these studies are done regularly. As of right now, you know, the sector's SYR rate is around 16 percent, so the reflections of these developments, how they will affect them, what measures will be taken to revitalize them when it comes to the possibility of impacting them, all of this is constantly being studied. As of right now, there's no risk at all in that sense, so the system doesn't even approach the danger limit for far more advanced points, as far as capital competency is concerned. In addition, these studies are being done, and measures are also being taken, especially in the real sector, in the hope that improvements will affect the real sector, and through it, the banking sector. Today, I've tried to present on the stand, and the 250 billion-dollar credit volume that our Prime Minister explained is, in effect, an arrangement that will effectively eliminate potential risks in this regard. So there's no problem there. Mr. Tanal is called Always Cashing Dollars. But Turkish Airlines has made its latest tender with foreign currency related to the buying of THY aircraft. In the form of... as far as I know, there are several companies in the world who have already sold in what kind of currency. So there's no other option there. This practice does not violate the current general practice. Again, what about the lady's -- I'm sorry I didn't get her last name -- 720,000 subcontractors? The question is, what will happen to them? Of course, you can appreciate that it's a very important arrangement, really, we're talking about the public transfer of around 720,000 subcontractors.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0521par0828	It's been promised.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0520par0829	Of course. This will surely be done. There is no doubt about it, but serious work is being done for the technical arrangements. So there's a lot of work going on right now that will allow the integration of the system to be done in the most painless way that doesn't disrupt the general system.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0522par0831	Will you give it to me for a while?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0520par0832	It's over, I'll tell you that, it's over. Hopefully, the promise will be fulfilled as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0523par0834	Any more words from the ministers? Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications, I give you my word. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Mr. President, thank you. I'll answer Mr. Toğrul's question right away. They asked me about 51 members of the news-SEN, and I didn't have enough time. There are 168 people who continue to investigate and are exposed, and as the investigation is over, it's done. The rest of the problem was made by PTT employees? Of course, 40,000 PTT employees are in the service of their country, but if there are wrong people who have defected to the country, like everywhere else, it is also necessary to do so. There was a question from Mr. Levent Gök. Why does PTT keep foreign currency in his account? We know, in particular, that the last few years of PTT (PTT) have been moving up in the world. There is foreign currency coming in, and if a person wants to get Turkish lira in return, the exchange is in the account of the PTT. Or a person will come and deposit Turkish lira and then send it to him and send it elsewhere. PTT is doing it again. In the daily accounts of the PTT (PTT), it is intended to keep dollars and euros for the current transactions. He doesn't have an account other than that, it's just a means to an end, so let's just say it. Again, Mr. Flagtutan had a question about the Tunnel of Life. The tunnel was finished, but there were two tunnels and viaducts following, and because of their work, we made a tender, and because of the objections to the tender process, it's gone too far, and I've submitted it to them before. Especially in 2017, the infrastructure will be completely finished, and we expect the other tender to be finalised.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0524par0840	Forty months late, Mr. Secretary, 40 months, we're still waiting. We shared a lot of words with you, but... Mr. Dogan Türkmen. He had a question about Çukurova Airport. I said it in my speech. The objections are over, returned to us from the Public Contraction Agency, the administration has made its decision, he's identified the contractor now, but they've got legal processes again, they're going on. About the fast train to Adana -- I said it again in my speech -- between Adana Mersin and, of course, the work began on the fast train that would be connected to theconium, and in 2019, we aim to finish it, hopefully. On the scholarship roller coaster, the tenders for the other stage are now being held, and the process is in progress. I don't know how long my time is, but nothing has been done to Zonguldak. Mr. Radishcu, 155 kilometers divided...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0525par0845	I'll give the remaining five minutes to the two ministers. $2.6 billion has been spent, and tomorrow we're laying the foundation of the 500 million port of Filios in Zonguldak. This is a sign of work being done. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'll give you a written answer to the others if you think I'm up to it. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0526par0851	Tell me about Niğde. Minister, you only promise, you don't do it for 14 years. You just made a statement, just a statement!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0525par0852	Now, it's time for Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, Mr. Berat Colonel. It's obvious what we're doing, the citizen knows if we're making promises.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0526par0854	What did you do? You didn't do anything to Niğde. You don't even pass the high-speed train, you don't build the airport, you tell me about the highways...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0525par0855	Congressmans, please... Please, the government will speak. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0527par0858	There were two questions, one about Niğde Bor. I believe it's a question about GES. In this frame, we made the first of the GES tenders at the Iconium Karapınar.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0528par0859	No, it's the Energy Development Zone, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0527par0860	In the Energy Development Zone, the first assessment of the Niğde Bor....is the implementation of the potential for solar energy. In this regard, we started the first one in Turkey in Konya Karapınar. After this is completed in the first quarter, we'll do the second tender in the second semester of 2017. Niğde Bor is one of them. The most efficient of all the maps of Turkey -- which is the most efficient of all three infrastructure criteria -- is as serious as the Niğde Bor capacity, hopefully, we'll do the second tender at Niğde Bor.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0528par0861	I hope so.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0527par0862	The subject of stone coal is very important at the point of domestic, national energy. Turkey's already limited lignite is one of our most important priorities in the use of stone coal much more intensively than low-calorie coal sources. In this framework, Zonguldak has a very important place in the transformation. Of course, here we have a negative picture, which has been going on for decades, unfortunately, with the wrong strategies of different confederates, hopefully, with all of our shareholders in 2017, we will complete this beautiful, positive transformation, and hopefully we will bring it to life with a model that is safer and more secure than the stone coal of Zonguldak. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0529par0865	And get your ears out of those power distribution companies.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0530par0866	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Finally, I promise the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since the open posting quota for 2017 has not yet been announced, I would like to say that it is impossible to say anything specific about hiring staff. In your second question, you've expressed the low price on product purchases. The purchase of $1,675, the purchase of $910 worth of wheat. World prices are in the middle, you know. I'd like to personally come and express the satisfaction of the manufacturers here, and I've seen it in Edirne, and I've seen it in Konya, and I've seen it in Kars. Thank God we don't have that problem.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0531par0872	Is there one in the Black Sea? I'd like to point out here that there's been a year delay, a year delay in the postponement of agricultural debt. There's a cancellation of the Constitutional Court on vets in these slaughterhouses. The issue of treasury land is a matter of interest to the Ministry of Finance, to the national estate. We've gathered 5.3 million hectares of land for the collection of land, 1.7 million hectares of land, and we're going to complete the collection of 7 million hectares by 2023. Another issue, you know, is this place in Adana, which is built by the DSI in Adana. I mean, we'll be interested. It's true -- the ring of fire around us -- there's been some problems with the crisis with Iraq, Syria and Russia. In this framework, support is important. You said it was no big deal, but it's very important, contrary to the support. We will continue these supports, but I would like to point out that we are currently working hard with Ukraine, Georgia, Iran, and other countries, especially China, on the part of the Agriculture Business Forum, in order to diversify markets. I'd like to point out that we're continuing a full-scale study of citrus, both biologically and biotechnically, about the Mediterranean fruit fly. The matter of conscious use of drugs is extremely important. About this, I've just mentioned, one of the purposes of our basin-based support model... is that consciousness is crucial when our products go to the outside market and present it to our own citizens on the domestic market... and come to the table as safe food, free of all kinds of waste, chemical, healthy products. I'd like to point out that we're accelerating our studies on this. Mr. President, these are the questions that are usually asked. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0532par0880	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. President, can I answer a question if there's time? Twelve seconds. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. I'll take twelve seconds. Mr. Master, there was a sentence here that they said: "Will you obey the requirements in Samsun?" So I said, "It'll take a year if I go along with the terms." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So I'm going to do it in three months, and I'm not going to do it. That's what this sentence means. I pay my respects. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The question-answer process has been concluded.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0533par0891	Mr. President, for the record... Now, if it reduces a year's time to three months, there's a public interest here, not a condition. It reduces a year to three months, but the condition is that the airport doesn't close. A year's worth of airports, no closings, and a tender is being made over it. Look, I showed him his document, and here's his document. Let me see if there's any other paperwork, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0532par0893	Thank you, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0533par0894	Mr. President, it's not over. Now, I'm not going to abide by the conditions... Yes, what will happen? Yeah, it was a year, three months, no one's got a problem with that, but you're closing for three months. We don't want the airport to be shut down, we don't want it to be closed on condition. Mr. Erhan, this is not possible.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0534par0897	It's in the transcripts. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0535par0899	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0534par0900	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0535par0901	Mr. President, the ministers haven't answered our questions, but will they answer in writing?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0534par0902	I suppose they'll answer in writing, won't they? Let's ask the ministers.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0536par0903	Yeah. If you think the time is right, let's answer it now.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0537par0905	For example, how many times has the Public Contraction Law changed?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0538par0906	Now, Mr. Tanal, the Deputy Prime Minister says that the time appointed by the Civil Code for Question and Answer is limited. The government has a ten-minute say in the matter. If you give me time, I'll be happy to answer.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0537par0907	I think we should.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0538par0908	Congressmans, but the Civil Code has a rule.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0537par0909	Then let them answer in writing.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0538par0910	That's how you set the ten-minute response time on the advisory board, determined by the agreement of the groups.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0537par0911	Dear President, let them answer in writing.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0538par0912	The ministers will answer these questions in writing.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0537par0913	Okay, so that's what we want.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0538par0914	Members of lawmakers, I will now make you read separately and vote on the parting of budgets, which take place in the third round, respectively. I submit to your votes that the Banking Editing and Investigation Institution of the 2017 central management budget be transferred to its sections: those who agree...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0539par0918	We have a roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0540par0919	We're voting now, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0538par0920	No, I haven't voted yet, Congressman. There must have been a roll call before the vote. I'll identify the MPs who have requested roll call, and then I'll do the roll call. Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Botan, Mr. Toğrul, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Konca, Mr. Atıyaman, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Adıyaman, Mr. Atalan, Mr. İrmez, Mr. Dilek Öcalan, Mr. Önlü, Mr. Tüllü, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Paylan. Of course, when 10 people leave, we find it difficult to count from the group. Now, I'm gonna give you two minutes to roll call, and I'm gonna start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account I submit to your votes that the Banking Editing and Investigating Institution of the 2017 central management budget be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 42.04) THE BUILDING AND EXPERIENCE OF BANCY 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 17.619,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 365,381,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 385,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 385,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 385,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Banking Editing and Control Agency was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2015 will be transferred to the chapters of the Banking Editing and Investigation Agency: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 282,000,000,00 Budget Expenses 106,155,027,10 Canceled Fund 175,844,972.90 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 282,000,000.00 Collection 291,951,841,15 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Banking Editing and Control Agency has been adopted into parts of the central management account in 2015. I submit to your votes that the Capital Market Board of the 2017 central management budget...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0541par1010	President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0538par1011	There's got to be a roll call. I'm going to do a roll call on his apartment. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Toğrul, Mr. Botan, Mr. Adıyaman, Mr. Konca, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Atalan, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Çelik Özkan, Mr. Dilek, Mr. İrmez, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Başaran, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Ayhan, Mr. Dora, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Pir, Mr. Büskekli, Mr. Önlü. Yeah, I'll give you two minutes to roll call, starting roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account I'd like to submit to your votes that the Capital Market Board of 2017 be transferred to the central management budget: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.03) PIECE OF PIANO 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 42.140.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 10.130,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 75.322,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 127.592,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 102.142,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 25,450,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 127.592,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Capital Market Board was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Capital Market Board of 2015 will take part in the final account of central management: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 191,665,000.00 Budget Expenses 168,498,984,73 Canceled Fund 23.166,015,27 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 109,496,000,00 Collection 222.345.079,47 Rejections 426.319.87 Net Collection 221,918,759,60 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Capital Market Board was adopted into parts of the central management account in 2015. The Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2017...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0542par1103	President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0538par1104	Yes, there is a request for a roll call. I'll do the roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Toğrul, Mr. Botan, Mr. Adıyaman, Mr. Konca, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Atalan, Mr. Ocalan, Mr. Atash, Mr. Çelik Özkan, Mr. İrmez, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Başaran, Mr. Paylan, Mr. Ayhan, Mr. Dora, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Pir, Mr. Büzekli. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Congressmans, I'd like to bring you up to speed on something. So far, I've met all roll call requests, and it's clear that every roll call has enough meetings in the General Assembly. On 5/10/1998, I read a sentence in the Parliamentary Speaker and Vice President's understanding text: "It is in the President's discretion to allow the rights to be abused on whether or not to make a brief roll call on request. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I hereby declare that I will exercise that right of appreciation in the following demands.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0543par1163	Mr. President, Mr. President... 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0544par1210	I've been reading episodes: 34) LOOKING FOR DISAPPEARANCE, AUDIENCE AND NEWS 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 13.517.619.200 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 1,613.800 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 10,645,263,600 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 323.400 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 24,164,820,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. The Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration of 2015 be transferred to the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 27,457,552.263,11 Budget Expenses 26,176,271,164.03 Canceled Fund $1,281,281,099,08 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 1,127,459,332,51 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2015. I submit to your votes that the districts of the central management budget of 2017, which are accepted by those who do not accept... are accepted. 40.52) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORS 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 180.582,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 23.738,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 14.803,314,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 1,968,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 15,009,602,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Attempted and Property Influences 1,493,731.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 13.484,279000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 31,148,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Savings 444,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 15,009,602,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget of 2017 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Central Administration account of 2015 will be transferred to its sections: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total grant 22.875.610.995.25 Budget Expenses 22.825.797.145.03 Emancipation Expenses 103,743,75 Canceled Fund 49,889,201,93 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 28.392.04 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget revenue estimate 7.246.304,000.00 Collection 16.771.181.368.34 Ret and Returns 1.547.737,41 Net Collection 16.769.63.630,93 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The National Directorate of Highways 2015 has been adopted into parts of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Information Technologies and Communication Institution shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2017: those who have not accepted... those who have not. 42.02) THE INVESTIGATION AND INTERVIEW 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 395.556,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 51,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 2,438,444,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 2,885,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2,632,281000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 252,719000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 2,885,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Information Technologies and Communication Agency have been adopted into parts of the central management budget in 2017. Information Technologies...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0545par1302	Mr. President, I demand my position according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0544par1303	Here you go, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0545par1306	Mr. President, you have expressed the matter as a preconceived decision. However, the Civil Charter is open, and a call is always available to all groups. Today, you have stated that you do not accept our request for roll call for the next phase, which I do not find correct. If you continue in this manner, I'll ask for a formal discussion. That's because the situation that you're talking about... we've already asked for it, not at intervals, but at certain intervals. With your attitude, there is no guarantee whether the number will be complete for the next time. So I'm saying that either our roll call demands are valid in the future, or according to the Civil Code, we're going to have to use our Civil Code rights on this. Thank you. I'll leave it to you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0544par1310	Mr. Demirel, we run the General Assembly work under the rules of Parliamentary law.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0545par1311	We're the Underlaws...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0544par1312	One second, sir, one second... I listened to you, please... Parliamentary law doesn't just mean the Civil Code. Parliamentary law, the Constitution, the Laws, the Civil Code, the Presidential Court decisions are made up of regulations. Teamüller could also be stemming from the agreements made by parliamentary speakers, the group's deputy presidents among themselves, without a consensus. For example, although the application of the vote to be carried out from time to time by electronic devices is not included in the Interior Charter, the vote that we voted by electronic device to make the call does not have any basis in the Internal Charter. Where is this coming from? If I remember correctly, in 1998, the political party was due to a consensus between the group's vice presidents. Now, what I've just told you about is the application of the agreement between the Speaker of Parliament and the Vice President in 1998. Now, I've conducted the polls you requested, and I've seen that there are enough meetings here. If in any way there's not enough number of meetings, if we're blood as the Presidential Court, we'd be happy to meet those demands. I mean, you're right to be critical if we don't meet your roll call, even though there's not enough meetings here. (EC PARTY Applause) You know, the Speakers of Parliament make an observational assessment when opening the General Assembly, and if the meeting decides there's enough, the Deputy Speaker of Parliament will open the merger. That's my app.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0546par1315	You opened it with three people in the morning.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0544par1316	I'd also like to remind you that budget talks are based on a consensus that has been reached between political party groups so far, and what I know is that in budget talks, no political party group will be required to check in accordance with this agreement. Of course, if you don't agree with this agreement, there's nothing I can say about it. I can't criticize you as acting Speaker, but I can only determine that you've been out of order so far, Mr. Demirel.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0547par1317	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0544par1318	I'm not going to do that if you ask for a roll call, because there are enough meetings in the General Assembly right now.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0547par1320	Okay. Well, then, Mr. President, you have no knowledge of your assessment...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0544par1322	I can't hear you, Mr. Ironel. I'll turn on your microphone, go ahead, talk from there. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0548par1327	Mr. President, we know about the situation you're talking about. We've been in Parliament in the past, and we've acted on these conditions, but right now, in the process, we don't have that kind of common process, so we don't have that kind of partnership. So all groups know that very clearly. We've expressed this before because this process is a very different process from our point of view. Now, in a situation where our co-chairs, group-chairs, and deputies are being held hostage...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0549par1328	Not hostages, correct sentences, not hostages, criminals, criminals. You'll have to accept that from the start.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0548par1329	I don't want to talk like this...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0550par1330	You're to blame!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0551par1331	You're guilty, you're guilty! I'm gonna check your phone right now, are you or aren't you?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0550par1332	Are you a judge or a judge?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0552par1333	We don't have a case like this, we don't have anything in common, Mayor. We've met with the group presidents before, the consultation we've had and the...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0553par1335	I mean, it could be...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0552par1336	President, let me finish my sentence...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0553par1337	I'm not the one who's going to claim it exists if there's no such agreement.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0552par1338	I'll finish my sentence.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0553par1339	Here you go. I'll turn on your microphone, please complete it, because we're voting.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0552par1341	Now, you've mentioned it before, yes, there would be a partnership, an assessment, and a common position would be made during the budget period. Now, in the meantime, we don't have that in common. We've expressed this situation to themselves before, to the party group's vice presidents, because the process is a very different process from ours. Right now, our lawmakers, co-chairs, and our group's vice president, who are supposed to continue their legislature activities here, are not here right now, and they're being held hostage.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0554par1342	Mr. President, there's no such thing as a hostage. If they feel hostage, they won't stop in this Parliament. Those who feel hostage will not stop in this country.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0552par1343	So since we know that this process is not legal, it's not purely political, so we're not entirely malicious, but it's the Civil Code, and we've taken advantage of our rights, even though our rights are not just the Civil Code. But I don't think you're going to... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We don't think it's right for you to consider it a use. Because not often, but at intervals, we asked for roll call.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0555par1346	Mr. Demirel, thank you, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0552par1347	You just cut him off in this hall. If the numbers go down after that, you've even gotten in the way of our roll call request. You have stated that you will not accept. So you've determined that attitude. And I suggest we start a formal debate on your attitude.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0555par1348	Now, Mr. Ironel, I'm speaking from experience. Whether or not you demand a formal debate is your own business, of course. There's no rule that the Deputy Speaker is going to open every argument of procedure. The third thing I'm going to say is that when there's a formal debate on such matters, the president's application becomes more powerful. So I suggest you don't ask for a formal discussion. I'm not starting a formal debate.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0552par1351	So, you're saying you're not having a formal discussion.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0555par1352	Mr. Demirel, look, I've read the memorandum of understanding. The Covenant text is part of Parliamentary law.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0556par1353	The Covenant text can't be on this Charter, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0555par1354	I'm being legal.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0557par1355	Oh, is the law set up for you, brother?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0558par1356	This law will never be arranged for you! You're setting up a law for yourself! You're setting up a law for yourself because you have too many powers!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0557par1357	Don't scream, sit down!
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0559par1358	Guys, this is the end, let's calm down.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0558par1359	Then shut up. We express ourselves to the President. Why are you guys talking out of there? 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0560par1406	Yeah, we'll pick up where we left off. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of 2015 shall be transferred to the chapters of the Information Technologies and Communications Agency: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 2,300,000,000,00 Budget Expenses 2.102.584.282.23 Cancelled Fund 197,415,717,77 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 2,000,000,000.00 Collection 2,277.123.840,21 Ret and Returns 10.831.709.67 Net Collection 2,266.292.130,54 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Information Technologies and Communications Agency has been accepted into parts of the central management account of 2015. I submit to your votes that the Civil Aeronautics General Directorate will take part in the central management budget in 2017: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.49) THE GOVERNMENT OF CIVIL AIRPORT 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 4.167,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 650,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 33.739.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 38.556,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 46.396,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 23.604,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 70,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Civil Aviation General Directorate was adopted in 2017 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the Civil Aeronautics General Directorate of 2015 will take part in the final account of central management: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 35.951.170.00 Budget Expenses 33.386.938,12 Canceled Fund 2,564,231,88 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 68,500,000.00 Collection 59,546,599,33 Ret and Returns 406,653,05 Net Collection 59.139.946.28 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Civil Aviation General Directorate of 2015 has been adopted into parts of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources take part in the central management budget in 2017: Those who don't... Sustained. 20) THE ENERGY AND THE ENERGY OF ENERGY 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 679,018,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 38,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4,200,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 433,310.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 1,217,024,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 2,333.590.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources in 2015, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration of 2015 be transferred to the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance is 1,750.023,000.00 Budget Expenses 1,478,847,148,45 Canceled Grant 271,175,851,55 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources of 2015 was considered part of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the energy market regulatory institution shall be transferred to the central management budget in 2017: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.05) ENERGY PIECE PRODUCTION 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 16.015,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 35,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 222.486,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 241.536,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 207,501.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 36.035,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Ret and Returns - 2,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 241.536,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Energy Market Editing Institution was adopted in 2017 as part of the central management budget.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0561par1512	Mr. President, I'm going to make a statement for him to go on the record.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0560par1513	I'll finish the vote, Mr. Ironel, I promise. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of 2015 will be transferred to the chapters of the energy market regulatory institution: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total grant 321,049,917,88 Budget Expenses 201.344.348.77 Canceled Fund 119,705,569,11 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 248.136,000.00 Collection 286,288,236,18 Ret and returns 29.548.924.30 Net Collection 256,739,311,88 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Energy Market Editing Institution of 2015 is considered part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the National Bor Research Institute shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2017: those who have not accepted... are accepted. 40.26) INSTITUTION INSTITUTION 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 04 Economic Affairs and Services 15.532,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 15.532,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0562par1538	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0560par1539	(B) Reading the ruler: 04 Special Influences With Donations and Aids 10,532,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 5,000,000
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0563par1544	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0560par1545	One moment, Mr. Demirel... All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 15.532,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0564par1549	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0560par1550	Here you go, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0564par1551	I just want to share with you the situation we deserve in the Civil Code. I want it to go straight to the transcripts. If you open it...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0560par1552	Here you go, I'll open it.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0564par1555	Thank you. The speech on Usul is very clear in Article 63: ▪ Whether there is room for discussion, inviting the president to observe the working procedures of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, bringing one issue forward or leaving it behind is discussed before other work. • So you have stated here that you have taken a budget vote. However, Article 63 clearly states that there is a situation in which the discussion will be taken into account. So you decided that this shouldn't happen during the budget meeting's vote. I'm saying it's against the Civil Code too. If a request is made on this road, a promise is made to the two most in favor and against, provided it does not last more than ten minutes. As a result of this meeting, the vote is marked. According to the Civil Charter 63, this was normally our request to talk about the procedure. You, on the other hand, stated that there would be no such request during the vote on budget talks. And that is, the Civil Code 60 has once again expressed our demand for our rights. If that's how it's going to go on, we're going to take it from there.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0560par1556	Mr. Demirel, I don't understand why you're having a procedural argument. You said something; you said to put something first, you said, "That's to move something up." You said.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0564par1557	Now, I've made it clear that the issue of the procedure debate will be brought forward in the current discussion and that the agenda will continue after the discussion of the procedure. You've assessed it through the boards. So we've explained to you that there's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0560par1558	No, I said, "You want to start a legal debate by criticizing me in accordance with the Civil Code, so I understand.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0564par1559	Yes, we've made a request to take advantage of our Civil Code rights and make a roll call.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0560par1560	No, now that you've come up with a reason, I've stated that in 1998, under the agreement between the president of the Turkish Grand National Assembly and the vice presidents of the United States...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0564par1561	In 1998...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0560par1562	Yeah, 1998. ▪ If the roll call is repeated often, it is in the discretion of the Deputy Speaker of Parliament who rules the merger on whether or not it is an abuse of rights. (ÇT/TK)
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0565par1563	Were 10 members of Parliament taken hostage in 1998, President? You can answer that if you want.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0560par1564	I've conducted all the roll call you've requested, and I've determined that there are over 200 members of the General Assembly, 20 members of lawmakers who have requested your roll call, are not included in this issue, and we are still identifying the existence of such a number in the General Assembly as the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0566par1565	President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0560par1566	Now, just a second, let me finish. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) One second, dear MPs... The second thing I'm saying is it's a matter of interest. I mean, I also said that the budget has a system like this, and there's a consensus that there's no need to ask for a roll call in groups, but I said I don't have to take it.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0567par1568	All right, well, then, later...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0560par1569	Sir, I'm taking the second issue out of context, it's the political party groups that are going to evaluate it, and I just reminded them of an old reality. It's the 1998 memorandum that I endured.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0568par1570	The rules are not in front of the law, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0569par1571	Okay, now...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0560par1572	One second, one second, Mr. Ironel... And I said one last thing. As a result of this kind of procedural debate, if the president's attitude doesn't change, this practice becomes much more powerful, and I remind you of that. If you're still insisting, I'll open up the debate.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0569par1574	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0570par1575	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0560par1576	No, no, tell me now.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0569par1577	It's not open, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0560par1578	Mr. Demirel, tell me, I hear you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0569par1579	That's because it's not open. Mr. President, now, let me make it clear that there's no way that regulations can get ahead of the Civil Code. You know, it's clear. Before our request for a procedure debate, we have stated that our roll call demands should be considered because we have stated that they should not only be evaluated through the rules. This is not constant, but we've asked you to consider the need to consider our request for a check-up at intervals. Our request is very clear. For no time, the rules cannot stand in the way of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0560par1581	Mr. Ironel, look. There's a concept called Parliament law, I mentioned it. It's part of Parliamentary law. In addition, some of the agreements made between Parliament Speakers or members of the group are in front of the Interior Charter.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0569par1582	I'm expressing to you that there is no such agreement at this time.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0560par1583	Look, I've explained to you an example of some of the agreements in front of the Civil Charter. Please, I'm asking you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0569par1584	We're expressing to you that there is no such agreement at this time.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0560par1585	No, I'm talking about a 1998 understanding.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0569par1586	In 1998, 10 MPs were not taken hostage in this Parliament, President.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0560par1587	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0569par1588	Now, we've evaluated these in the past period when we evaluated the processes.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0560par1589	Mr. Demirel, look, sir, I'm going to make one last statement, and we'll proceed as we left off. I've shown you all the tolerance you need so far, and I've recognized all your rights.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0571par1590	That was your job, not tolerance.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0560par1591	I've used all the opportunities given by the Civil Code in a flexible manner, please, sir. We'll continue the vote where we left off.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0572par1593	Mr. President, we have a roll call. Do you accept our request for roll call?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0573par1594	Mayor, we have a roll call right now.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0574par1595	Do you or do you not accept our request for roll call?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0573par1596	Give us an answer to our roll call, Mayor. 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2015 D) THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Highways 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aeronautics General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2015 Central Management Terminate Account Ü) LLUSAL BOR RESEARCH INSTITUTION INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account "I") GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0575par1643	The National Bor Research Institute was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0576par1644	Do you or do you not accept our request for roll call?
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0575par1645	I'm not going to consider the roll call as a request for abuse of one's rights.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0576par1647	We're protesting your position.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0575par1648	I submit to your votes that the National Bor Research Institute for Central Management in 2015 will be transferred to the specifics of its account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. [[Hitting row covers from HDP rows]] 2) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 11.643.782.00 Budget Expenses 9.836.990.30 Canceled Fund 1.806.791.70 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 11.603,000.00 Collection 9.703.458,79 Ret and returns 7.230,58 Net Collection 9.696.228,21 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The National Institute of Bor Research of 2015 has been adopted into parts of the central management account.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0577par1666	Mr. President, I want you to know that you are in violation of the Civil Code. You violated the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0578par1667	You are in violation of a group's request. We will never accept your attitude.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0575par1668	I didn't violate the Civil Code. I continue to obey Parliamentary law. I've shown you all the flexibility you need.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0577par1669	Mr. President, the regulations are not above the Civil Code. It is in your best interest to comply.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0575par1670	I suggest you practice some Parliamentary law.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0577par1672	You cannot stand in front of the Civil Charter. We protest, we condemn you.
tbmm-2016-12-08sit04spe0575par1674	[[HDP MPs leaving the General Assembly Hall]] I submit to your votes that Turkey's Atomic Energy Foundation will be transferred to the central management budget in 2017: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.27) BUILDING OF TURKEY ATOM INNERGY 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 20,718,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.345,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 150,715,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 174.778,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 16.955,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 157,598,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 225,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 174.778,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Atomic Energy Institution of 2015 will take part in the final account of central management: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency Central Management Account for 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 152.912.241.69 Budget Expenses 120,772.499,57 Canceled Fund 32.139,742,12 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 8.028.198.58 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 136,875,000.00 Collection 138.739.292.00 Ret and Returns 376.142.47 Net Collection 138.363.149.53 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency has been accepted as part of its final account of central management in 2015. I submit to your votes that the Departments of the Central Management budget of 2017, which are approved by those who do not accept... are accepted. 40.40) MADEN DETECTIVE AND EARLIER GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 77.437,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 59.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.233,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 597,023,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 1,329.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 679,081.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 63,850.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 481,081.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 129,150,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 674.081.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Mining Study and Search General Directorate was adopted in 2017 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the Departments of the Central Management Account of 2015 of the Department of Mine Study and Search, those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total grant 418,281,161,78 Budget Expenses 353,973,421,50 Canceled allowance 64,307,740,28 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 1.017.210.94 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 402.471.00 Collection 517.692.148,41 Ret and returns 76,741,359,17 Net Collection 440.950.789.24 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Department of Mining Study and Search was adopted as part of the central management account in 2015. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2017: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 30) GEDA, AGREEMENT AND ANIMALITY 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 162.274,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 7,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 19,105,33,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Environmental Protection Services 4,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 200,311.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 43,288,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 15.724,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. GENEL TOPLAM 19,537.920.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism adopted parts of the central management budget in 2017 The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, in 2015, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 14.977.428.280.00 Budget Expenses 14.840.028.229.50 Canceled Grant 137,400,050,50 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2015. I would like to submit to your votes that the tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2017: those who have not accepted... those who have not. 42.09) STUDENT AND ALCOLPY PRODUCTION 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 49.245,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 90,755,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 140,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 135,350,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 4,470.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 140,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2015 will be transferred to the chapters of the tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Agency 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 120,000,000.00 Budget Expenses 116,731,510.09 Canceled Fund 3.268,489,91 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 96,000,000.00 Collection 117.569.328.87 Ret and Returns 837.818.78 Net Collection 116,731,510,09 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency is considered part of the central management account in 2015. Thus, the budgets and precise accounts of the companies involved in the third round were accepted. I wish them well. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Congressmans, the 3rd round of talks has been completed. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Friday (December 9th 2016) to discuss the budget and precise accounts of the organisations in order. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00. I bid you good night.
