tbmm-2016-07-16sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 114th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which has been called by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in accordance with the 93rd article of the Constitution, the 7th Amendment. There's enough for a meeting. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I invite you to express our respect for our saintly martyrs who died in the coup attempt. Here you go, sir. [[Respect has been held]] Thank you. Congressmans, we will now read our Istliklal March. I'd like to invite you to read the Instruction March. [[Identical March]] [[Applause]] Thank you. Dear MPs, our Intrigue March is a manifesto. We have read the first two continents of this poem, which consists of 10 continents of our nation's poet Akif. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to read with you the rest of the continents of our entire society, the spirit, the work, the thought, the opinion, the opinion, the judgment of this Stable March: I've lived free forever, I've lived free, Who the hell's gonna chain me up? I'm surprised. I'm like a roaring flood, chewing on me, overcoming me, I'll tear up the mountains, I won't fit in the depths, I'll overflow. If he's got a wall of steel around him, he's got a wall of steel, he's got a wall of steel, he's got a wall of steel, he's got I've got a heart like a heart full of faith. Don't be afraid! How can he drown such faith, The one-toothed monster you call civilization? [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Welcome, Mr. President. [[Standing ovations from CHP rows, applause from AK PARTY rows]] Friend! Don't let the scoundrels come into my home. Take cover, your body will stop. This is an unsavory raid. The day he promised you will come when the righteous will be born, Who knows, maybe tomorrow, maybe even closer than tomorrow. Don't walk around saying "land" like you're stepping on. Think of the thousands of shroudless beds under it. You're the martyr's son, don't hurt him, it's a shame. Don't give it to me, it's paradise even if you take the world. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Who wouldn't sacrifice this paradise for your country? He'll burst into doubt, if you squeeze the ground. Let him take his soul, his soul, and all that I have. Don't let my only country make me feel like I'm in the world. Thou art the God of my soul, but the law of my soul: The namahrem hand on the breast of my temple. These oppressors, whose testimony is the foundation of religion, Eternity must moan over my homeland. Then I will prostrate myself before the hoopoe a thousand times, and if there is one, I will carry it. From every cerium, God, I am divorced and bloody, My soul bursts from place to place, Then maybe my head will be worth ascending to the throne. Wave like the dawn, O glorious crescent! All my blood is lawful now. He deserves the freedom of my free flag; It is right that my people worship Hakk. [[Standing ovations from the AK PARTY rows, from MHP rows, no for you, no for my race.]] Dear lawmakers, we are one nation as a whole, and as you can see, we're from cordiplomatics, judiciary, civil society organizations, academics... Outside, inside, most of our citizens came with flags in their hands. We thank them all for their participation in this precious gift that represents our nation. Turkish Chambers and Stock Exchange Union President Mr. Rifat Forarcıklıoğlu, Turkish Business and Artists Confederacy Chairman Benavi Palandöken, Turkish Union President Ergün Atalay, Turkish Employment Unions Consolidator Cengiz Delibaş, MEMUR-SEN Union President Ali Yalçın, Vice President Mehmet Şahin, Turkish Union of Agriculture Unions President Şemsi Baytar gentlemen are here. The Honorable President of our Supreme Court and our members of the court, who came with him in their robes, are here. The foreign mission chiefs are here. A whole nation is here, and we, lawmakers, are united, no matter how different the party is. Again, our members of the State have arrived. We thank them all. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Congressmans, our dear nation, since last night, we've had very sad, very tense, very painful, but also very egregious hours. [[Standing ovations from the AK PARTY]] Mr. Prime Minister, welcome, sir. It's a picture that's moving all of us right now, so we're looking at a beautiful picture of the July 15th holiday of democracy. Our heart is to ensure that our unity and unity continue in the same way. I've just forgotten to include Mr. President and members of the Supreme Court, and the Attorney General is here, and I salute them again. Those who cause this pain to our people will be punished for what they deserve. If we consider this attempt, this coup attempt, as a momentary, momentary, unrecognizable act from other developments in Turkey and the world, we can't and can't understand it. Unfortunately, in the internal affairs of our Turkey, its efforts to remain loyal to its people, its spiritual and national values, its history, its civilization, and its culture are disturbing a number of foreign forces who want to see Turkey as a puppet country to be driven, guided, dictated, and policy dictated. At the same time, Turkey's efforts to take a stand in matters relating to foreign policy, in world policy, in international history, in the history of the international arena, in a manner that suits its spiritual and national values, disturbs a number of forces that do not want our country to improve, improve, develop. There are those who want Turkey to waste its human resources, material and spiritual power and savings, potential and acquish its acquish with internal disputes, internal fights and security issues on the road to progress, development and strengthening. Unfortunately, there was a coup attempt on this target last night, but our political parties, civil society organizations, state institutions, the vast majority of our Turkish Armed Forces, with a national spirit that didn't pay the price for the coup, our beloved nation, and our members of the Ghazi Assembly, have been determined to resist the coup attempt of traitors, with courage, with courage, with pride, and with the help of Cenab-i Hakkk. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Unfortunately, during these incidents, the rebels also caused the death and injury of many official officials and civilian citizens. Many public buildings, including our parliament, have been attacked, and a very sad event is that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been bombed, this Veteran Parliament has been bombed. They have directed weapons to the government and to the nation for the protection of our state and nation, security, rights and law. The elements that the people raised, fed, and held weapons in their hands, they held their guns to the hearts of the people. An alien force has been attacked by the public as if it were attacking an intruder. I call upon all our nations, our officials, and our security forces, that there should be no more dark days like this, and that there should be no more dark days. This is some kind of terror. This sad attempt has failed, and the determination of rights and law, the determination of the nation, and the insight and common sense of the part of the armed forces that has nothing to do with the attackers have also triumphed with our nation's resistance to the tanks, which has filled the squares, stopped the tanks, stopped the tanks. The state will make sure that those responsible, their internal and external extensions are exposed, that they get what they deserve, that they deserve, that they do what they can. He'll do it in accordance with the law and the law, by sticking to the basic principles of law, such as the individuality of crimes. Those who make this attempt are a small minority. They've gone outside the chain of command, rebelled against the government. The necessary will be done, and they will be severely punished. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now is the time for us to work on our strength, our calm, our common sense, our determination, to work on this matter from the root, the time for unity and unity, to heal the wounds. In the history of this nation, he has been through a lot of bad things, and he's been through a lot. These days will pass. We know that with hardship there is ease. Some of the things we don't like can be no about us. Last night, the Grand National Assembly held a democracy watch here. No party, no matter how different, the same soul, was united by the same feeling. And the Justice and Development Party, Republican People's Party and National Movement Party MPs, officials, group presidents came here. Peoples' Democratic Party Co-Chair Selahattin Demirtaş Bey called me from Diyarbakır and said they would attend this meeting and would oppose any coup. As a matter of fact, here today, we're going to read together a common text of four parties, each group, and we're going to present it to the community. As I finish my words, I express my gratitude and thanks to all our citizens, the official officer and civilian who were killed by the attackers in this attempt, and to those who have been injured, and to those who have been injured, and to those who have been injured, and to those who have been injured, and to those who have been honest, loyal, and loyal to our armed forces, for their failure, and for their failure to the coup. From our president to our people, to our parliament, to our NGOs. This has proved to be the impossible thing to do again, and I believe and hope and hope that a day like this will never happen again in God's name. At this point, I would like to thank all of our political parties, all of our presidents, all of our political parties, all of our deputies, all of our people, all of our citizens, all of our citizens, who have filled the squares in every province and held a democracy watch. It does not belong to any group, to any armed force, and it belongs to the nation, as it says on our wall. (Applause) The community has shouted it, expressed it, adopted democracy and absorbed it; no one has the power, the right, and the limit to change it. Our police have worked with great sacrifice, all our security forces have done the same, and I believe our society will soon return to its normal life. As you can see from where you came from today and from where you have passed, life is normal, and it is normal, and it is temporary. I believe we'll soon be able to heal these wounds. And there are some members of the HSYK that I've forgotten, and I'd like to say that there are people from every part of our society, and I'd like to express them. Sure, we're together, there's a big crowd out there. We must be conscious of the peace of our country, our future, our happiness, that we are together, that we will be, and that we will continue to be. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I congratulate our Veteran Assembly on its right to stand up and claim national sovereignty, and I congratulate you all again on our July 15th holiday of democracy. [[Applause]] Let's move on to the agenda. I'm reading the extraordinary call for a meeting of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is part of the agenda: Turkey has been declared President of the Grand National Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has launched a military coup attempt on Saturday (July 16, 2016) at 17 p.m. on the basis of Article 7 of the Constitution's 93rd and Turkish Grand National Assembly's Institution. He was called to an extraordinary meeting at 00. I'd like to ask the MPs to attend the General Assembly meeting at the appointed time and day. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman It has been presented to your knowledge. By the way, there's one more thing I'd like to express. All of our previous high-value presidents, who have been president of our Parliament, have come by phone in person, and in addition to that, many of our former fellow lawmakers, many of our friends, who are not present here now, from their provinces, have stated that they are here in the same way, they have declared their union, and I'd like to present it to you. Members of parliament, I will now pledge to the leaders of the group of political party groups represented by Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Mr. Presidents are here. They're here. Group presidents will speak. As I said in the beginning, the president of the People's Democratic Party will speak because he says he is in Diyarbakır. President of the Justice and Development Party and Chairman of the Parliamentary Group Prime Minister İzmir MP Buli Yıldırım. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] President of the Republican People's Party and Chairman of the Parliament Group, İzmir MP Kemal Kilicdaroğlu. [[Applause from CHP and AK PARTY]] President of the National Movement Party and Parliamentary Group Chairman Osmaniye MP Mr. State Gardenli. [[A round of applause from MHP, AK PARTY and CHP rows]] Peoples' Democratic Party Co-Chair and Parliamentary Group Chairman İstanbul MP Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş instead of Deputy Chair of the Group and Diyarbakır MP İdris Baluken. [[Applause]] The first statement belongs to Justice and Development Party's President, Prime Minister, Parliamentary Group Chairman İzmir MP Mr. Buli Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[AC PARTY standing round of applause, applause from CHP, HDP and MPP rows]] Sir, you're going to set your deadline, we're not going to set a deadline. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-07-16sit01spe0002par0109	Dear President of the Veteran Assembly, valued presidents of our political parties, highly valued presidents of the Supreme Court, honored guests, respected lawmakers; at the beginning of my speech, I would like to once again share with you the following wonderful lines: Like the dawn, O glorious crescent! All my blood is lawful now. Not for you forever, not for my race. He deserves the freedom of my free flag; It is right that my people worship Hakk. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Mr. President, dear lawmakers, last night, I stand in the street as heroes, standing before tanks to protect the nation's independence, honor, and the freedom of its flag with its blessed blood, to preserve its nation's sovereignty, to cherish and to cherish our martyrs with mercy and gratitude, to cherish their places. I salute them with respect and gratitude from beneath the roof of this great House. I specifically address the families of those heroes: Don't worry, don't be sad, they have reached the highest rank after prophecy, the greatest dignity, the highest martyrdom. Those heroes were your sons until yesterday, but today they are the children of the nation, of all of us. As long as there is a Republic of Turkey, the names of those heroes will live. Their graves will be light and their dwelling will be paradise. I salute my wounded brothers from here and wish them all a speedy recovery. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I am proud to be the son of such a heroic nation. (AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers in standing ovations) I thank our President, General Commander Recep Tayyip Erdogan for his firm stand. (AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers in rows) I thank our political parties, our political parties' leaders, the parliamentary groups for their solidarity. (AK PARTY and Ministers' Orders) I kiss our police department on the forehead of my policemen, each one of whom is an Alparslan, one of the Conquerors, each one of whom is a Saladdin Ayyubi. (AK PARTY and Council of Ministers) I kiss the home of the Turkish Armed Forces, their nation, their flag, every officer, every petty officer, expert, private and private. (EC PARTI and Ministers' Council of Ministers) I would like to thank our media and media representatives here, especially our media organs, who have shown an example to the world in the face of the coup. I thank our civil society organizations, our imams and sala readers until morning, my brothers who pray at the head of their prayer. (EC PARTY and Ministers' Orders) I thank our citizens, our kinsmen, our friends and brothers, who have taken their flags and walked the streets around the world. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] Dear MPs, my dear brothers, last night you came to the Grand National Assembly, crossing barricades, crossing tanks, avoiding bullets, turning on lights, turning on the General Assembly, standing tall in this hall, saying, "Democracy or death." They started dropping bombs on the House of Nations, combing them with guns, not a single step back. I know that each of you feels the death of each of you right next to you. You've made an example of world parliaments, world democracies. While the people held their own in the street, you held on to your authority here, democracy, national will as representatives of the nation. With your attitude, history has rewritten this great coven. With that attitude, you changed Turkey's fortune. For hundreds of years, you have demonstrated unforgettable solidarity, brotherhood, cooperation. After our nation, of course, this Veterans Assembly deserves the greatest praise, and you deserve it, my dear brothers. On behalf of my nation, I salute every member of this Grand Assembly, every member of our parliament, without any distinction. I applaud you with great enthusiasm. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, our Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Veteran Assembly, had the longest, longest, most troubled night since 23 April 1920. The occupation forces had come all the way to Poletlı, but they could not touch it, nor touched it. Those who struck in 1960 could not attack the body of the Assembly, even if they attacked the national will, the spirit of parliament. The juvies didn't bomb the coven. The coup d'états didn't touch the House, but last night there was such a vicious, despicable, reckless attack that they targeted both the spirit and the body of the House, which the nation's will had. They're not soldiers, they're terrorists dressed as soldiers, they're murderers! [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] His eyes were turned. He had blood all over his eyes. They were in a state of madness. Betrayal and opium had taken over their minds. But what they didn't know was that the hands of those who touched the people's homes are on fire. Anyone who lays a hand on people's houses will be broken. The guy who attacked people's homes turns off the stove. Before 24 hours, his hands were burned, and his hands were broken that pressed those bombs, those triggers. God willing, the stoves have gone out forever! [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] I'd like to make a note of history here today. From now on, 50 years, a century, a thousand years, this nation's home will have the same fate as anyone who lays hands on this parliament. (EC PARTY and Ministers' Council of Ministers) No coup attempt has escaped, and no more will be left behind. Hopefully no one will be able to lay a hand on the people's homes and the will of the nation from now on. But if anyone does, they'll come to you today with their lives extinguished and they'll never attempt it. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] Mr. President, good lawmakers, today is a new day, today is the day when 79 million is one heart after a great ordeal. Today is the day when the EC PARTY, the Republican People's Party, the National Movement Party, the People's Democratic Party, all political parties outside the Parliament say, "No to the attack!" The day they claim democracy together. (EC PARTY and Ministers' Orders) Today we have shown the world how we have come together in an attack on our nation, our sovereignty, our flag, our state, and our Parliament, how we can be united. It's a myth today. The solidarity that has been displayed throughout the night, the solidarity that is displayed here today, I believe is the beginning of a new process. With this spirit, we can conquer terror, and with this spirit, we can heal our wounds. With this spirit of unity, by Allah's permission, we can also raise Turkey to the level of confluenced civilizations that are pointed to by Gazi Mustafa Kemal. (EC PARTY, CHP and the Council of Ministers) Today is the day of hope that has multiplied behind a painful incident. As President of the EC PARTY, Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, I pledge before my people that we will be firm in the spirit of unity that has been established in our Parliament today. On Vatan Street, in Kızılay Square, in airports, in every corner of 81 districts, the AK PARTİ (PARTİ) people, CHP people, Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) and the CHP (CHP) people held hands, held hands, held one heart, did one joint act, understood this message of the nation. They said, "We read this message of the nation's binding." They said, "We read the message of the nation." We have received orders from our nation to be united in unwavering unity in the face of betrayal and terror, and we will carry this historic solidarity into the future, hopefully. Once again, I give thanks to my nation who stand heroically in the face of the coup, and ask God's mercy to our martyrs, and pray for speedy healings to our wounded. Once again, I thank the presidents of our parties, the members of the group, all the MPs. I say democracy out of spite, national will, peace out of spite, brotherhood out of spite. My dear brothers, those who try to hit the nation have been struck, they have been struck! (AK PARTY) July 15 is now the day of the democracy watch, today's anniversary is the day of democracy. I'm saying good luck, good luck. Thank you, thank you, God be with you.
tbmm-2016-07-16sit01spe0003par0135	We want to thank Mr. Buli Yıldırım, chairman of Justice and Development Party and Parliamentary Group President İzmir MP. Ladies and gentlemen of the General Assembly, our esteemed Chief of Staff, General Hulusi Akar, has arrived. Welcome, sir. [[AK PARTY, MHP and the Council of Ministers welcome]] And again, Mr. Professor Mehmet Gormez, our President of Religious Affairs, welcome, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In turn, the chairman of the Republican People's Party and the chairman of the Parliament Group, İzmir MP Kemal Kilicdaroğlu is the head of the Republican People's Party. [[A standing ovation from CHP rows; AK PARTY, MHP and the Council of Ministers welcome]] Mr. President, come in, sir.
tbmm-2016-07-16sit01spe0004par0150	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the esteemed presidents of our political parties, my esteemed citizens who watch us on television, the Republic of Turkey has not been presented to us in gold plates. We built the state of the Republic of Turkey in pain, in blood, in tears. Our struggle to rebuild a state has earned the respect of the whole world. We set up a model state for the oppressed nations. To crown the Republic with democracy is the will of those who form the republic to their children. Dear lawmakers, it's not easy to build, develop, deepen democracy. We see it every step of history. So we paid heavy prices in the name of democracy. Attention, remember, these heavy costs have always been after the coup. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's be clear, what happened yesterday was a direct coup attempt. It's an open attack on our Republic, our democracy, our historical savings. However, we have placed such provisions in our Constitution to strengthen and preserve our democracy that it cannot be even offered to be changed. What's all this? For example: the Republic of Turkey is a democratic, secular, social law state. And here's actually the key. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In any case, defending democracy, defending the rule of law, defending secularism should be our common duty and common denominator. Of course, we openly condemn yesterday's attack on democracy on behalf of my group, on behalf of all the people who voted for us, on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Turkey. [[A round of applause from CHP, EC PARTY and the Council of Ministers]] It has caused us all deep sorrow and/but happily, this process has united us in a common denominator that should have been in politics from the beginning. What is this common denominator? I'll tell you that this common denominator is the commitment of the republic and democracy of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. (Applause from CHP rows) To develop and deepen democracy has been a common denominator of all of us. It gives us pride and honor, but we will continue to say it not only with our tongue but with our heart. Precious lawmakers, democracy is also the rule of law, not of the superior, but of law; democracy is also about commitment to the Constitution and our oath; democracy is about freedom of thought; democracy is also about freedom of media; democracy is also about neutral and independent justice; democracy is also about separation of powers; democracy is also about freedom of religion and conscience, and democracy is also about the right to resist those who have slaughtered law and democracy. Yesterday, our people went out into the square and took the right to resist the coup. (HPP applause in rows) When the law was violated, the rule of law was denied, for example, if democracy was asked to be destroyed by a coup, we saw yesterday how legitimate the right to resist was; a better example can not be given. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let no one forget that this will defend democracy until the end of the House, and no one will have to worry about that. This Parliament will defend the values of the republic to the end, and no one will worry about that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, there is a historic responsibility for this House. Together, in the context of republic and liberal democracy, we have to expand the front. Thus, in order for similar events not to happen again, everyone must fulfill the requirement of this historic responsibility. On the other hand, this coup attempt has shown us clearly and clearly that we need to remember that our parliamentary democratic system prevented this coup attempt. This is an inheritance from our parliamentary democratic tradition, and it is our common duty to inherit it. The suppression of the coup also shows the maturity of our parliamentary democratic system. There's no separation, there's no separation; there's a fight on democracy together to the end. This is the most important event that shows the maturity of our parliamentary democracy system, where we've reached, my dear friends, in Turkish political history. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers will sit down and investigate how this coup attempt was prevented in the future. We have a fearless, democratic and liberal media in this country. Despite all the persecutions and bans, the media has blocked the path of the coupgers, showing the way to freedom. When we were sitting at our TVs yesterday, we all saw it together, and in front of all of us, the media on live television yesterday encouraged the public to get the correct information, to exercise their right to stand up to the public. (CHP, AK PARTY and Ministers' Council of Ministers) In this context, I sincerely thank the media. Why did we insist but persistently say "freedom of memedia"? Media freedom is the fourth great power in modern democracies, after legislation, judgment and execution. And let us all know that power is ahead of all of us now, dear lawmakers. However, I must add that the political parties' common attitude towards the coup has also offered us the opportunity to make self-criticism about commitment to the republic and democracy. Because as democracy develops, Turkey will become one of the most respected countries in the world, and we have no worries about that. For every political party to sit down and make a self-criticism about this coup attempt, it's a condition of history, dear friends, it's a necessity. In connection with this coup attempt... Dear lawmakers, it is this Parliament's duty to oppose any coup. Regardless of the identity and purpose of the coupger, if we are reacting to terrorism, as we are reacting to democracy, we must set a common position, a common goal, and we must fight. We must never accept custody over democracy. Since we are here by the nation's discretion, since the vote of the nation is of great value, since national will is of great value, no matter who the power of democracy is, no matter what its position, no matter what its rank, this Parliament must never allow or will not allow. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The democratic, secular, social law state we're sworn to protect is actually the key to all of our problems, my dear friends. Yesterday, our MP from every party here fought hand in hand, side by side, faced major attacks together, held democracy under exploding bombs. And tomorrow, we all have to work together to solve Turkey's problems in the common mind, in the culture of compromise -- again, in the culture of reconciliation. It's a good thing we're going to give to our people, what we're going to promise. We can solve all our problems in full democracy, more freedom and justice, because the constraint of freedoms, the unilateralisation of justice, and the compromise of democracy, not the solution to problems, but the problems itself. Any threat to democracy is a threat to Turkey. And we must never forget that. Anyone who goes outside the Constitution and the law must pay for it, no matter who it is. [[Applause from CHP and AK PARTY]] Dear lawmakers, we must accept the fact that we have a critical period ahead of us. We need to get through this period in cold blood, in a way that suits the dignity and seriousness of the state, in the form of law. We'll respect the state's dignity, we'll understand, we won't give up the law because the state is a state within the law. Justice is the foundation of property, the state. Those who deviate from justice will be judged within the law; they will be brought to justice without prejudice. That is what falls to the dignity and dignity of the state, my dear friends. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish God's mercy to all our citizens who lost their lives during these attacks, an immediate healing to the wounded, and a condolences to our nation. I respectfully salute the High Assembly with the stirring and encouraging style of tension among the public -- the stirring and encouraging style of tension among the people -- and with the emphasis that Turkey must avoid initiatives, wishing that it would never have such a painful day again.
tbmm-2016-07-16sit01spe0005par0177	We thank Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroğlu, the chairman of the Republican People's Party and Parliamentary Group. It is now the chairman of the National Movement Party and Parliamentary Group Chairman Osmaniye MP Mr. State Bahçeli. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-07-16sit01spe0006par0181	Mr. President, dear presidents, Mr. Chief of Staff, dear MPs, as I begin my words, I salute with the most sincere feeling of our sainted nation, with whom I am honored to be a lover, a member of your committee. (MHP, AK PARTY, CHP and the Council of Ministers in rows) I'd like to express my gratitude to every citizen who's watching us right now. Last night, there was a demand for democracy to be put in chains, to be struck, to be seen as the will of the nation was clearly attacked and assassinated. A handful of enemy collaborators infiltrated the Turkish army in order to bring our Turkish nation to its knees, to break its spine, to destroy the national entity altogether, and the Turkish nation was stabbed in the heart. Something that has never happened has happened, and the Chief of Staff and some of the Joint Chiefs of Staff have been taken hostage. The headquarters of the General Staff is occupied. Homeland and national enemies nested in the Turkish Armed Forces last night, becoming party and perpetrators of a rare betrayal in our history. Turkish democracy has been tested very hard. Please note this overwhelming matter: The Veterans Assembly under the roof has been bombed from the air. That's where the word ends and the breaking point. Police buildings, state television, private channels, intelligence agencies, roads, bridges, airports, military bases and regions have been blockaded and attacked one after another. Tanks are on the streets. The bombing of the Great National Assembly of Turkey, a blessed past of 90 to six years, is a terrible and terrifying betrayal. He couldn't do this kind of madness, that kind of indecency, that he didn't even do seven heifers in the years of the national struggle. In the years of the invasion of the Turkish homeland, this savagery, this raging villainy, no one has ever had the courage and the courage to focus on it. Every bomb that fell and hit the Veteran Parliament has touched 79 million Turkish citizens and exploded in national hearts. This vile attempt, this dark coup attempt, has targeted not only the elected government or lawmakers, but the entire Turkish nation. As Turkey's historical presence sickens our nation's spirit of unity and brotherhood, corrupt environments and focus aim to play its final cards and condemn our country to chaos. In fact, what happened last night was as much an attempted coup as it was a backstabbing and bloody terrorist attack. (MHP, AK PARTI and CHP rows) And this attack was carried out by a small group of Turkish soldiers who had been picked up from inside the Turkish military, deceived, manipulated, or already developed. Democracy is overturned, the virtues and relics of the national will are saved at the last moment. Again, the black stain of national will was cleansed by the determination and determination of our nation, driven by deep conspiracy and conspiracy by faith. Let us not forget that the phase of the Halaskar Zabitans is far behind; revolutions, monuments, junta eras have already been thrown into the waste of history and burned on top of it. The common future of the Turkish nation is law and democracy. The basis of our national unity and brotherhood depends on national and spiritual principles, the undisputable basis. No gang, no parallel structure, no terrorist organization, no coup and disbander will crack the altar floor, as the end of the peace executioners will always be a failure. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] No matter what our party heritage, political, ideological, and the compass of our worldview, we are all members of the Turkish nation, we are all the fearless ancestors of this paradise country. Our partners are more than the differences that are sometimes the subject of wagering. In memory, we'll be at one and we'll be together. Our history is one and our fortune is one because we are the great Turkish nation. There is no other Turkey, no other country geography. Whatever we're going to do, whatever we're going to achieve, wherever we're going, we're going to do it by the border and endurance of democracy, and by God's will, we're going to do it. No demon will be able to breathe enough to destroy a victorious nation. The Republic of Turkey has a decision to rid every scourge of its ability and strength. Those who are desperate enough to drop bombs on the Veteran Assembly are part of the Turkish Armed Forces, a member of the Turkish Armed Forces, morally and fundamentally will never be. (MHP, AK PARTY and Ministers' Orders) It is a duty of all of us to answer to the traitors who attempt to harm our country, to bring back what they eat and drink from their noses. [[KHP, EC PARTY and Ministers' Council of Ministers welcome]] We're going to grow up holding on to democracy. The Turkish nation must be respected. We will walk one step at a time into the peaceful and bright future with a complete commitment to evil, evil, and evil. Those who are wrongly defeated and try to stop this march will certainly have no choice but to suffer the painful consequences. The state is one, the flag is one, the language is one, the country is one, the nation is one, the people are alive to the end, and the wrongdoers are uncompromising. [[KHP, EC PARTY and Ministers' Council of Ministers welcome]] I strongly curse the coup d'états who shot our innocent citizens, bombed the national institutions and organizations, causing the presence of 161 children. I wish the law would never let these traitors see the light of day again. (MHP, AK PARTY and Ministers' Council of Ministers) I pray for God's mercy on those of us who lost their lives in the July 15 coup attempt. My condolences to the Turkish nation. May the Lord protect us from all evil and hostile treatments. Don't let our brotherhood, our national spirit and solidarity get hurt. And let's not forget that it's a national responsibility for all of us to remove cancerous cells that have taken over the Turkish Armed Forces, to cut them down, but not to leave our troops in the dark while they're doing so. (MHP, AK PARTI and Ministers' Council of Ministers) Those who put Mehmetchik out on the streets who knew nothing, and then opened the way for them to be lynched, or more, those who plan to turn our people against each other must answer to the very last shred of their crimes. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] It is essential to be very careful and alert to those who try to turn today's heavy provocation into opportunity. With that dignity, our dear nation must be patient and calm. The bottom line is clearly that the national choice and the security of our future is democracy. There's no compromise from that either. Our national reflex and decision is the survival and continuation of a thousand years of brotherhood. We're not going back on our decision. I also consider it a national mission to respond with sound and unwavering will to domestic or alien, regional or global operations and to express once again that we will never back down. I say to all of us, "Get well soon," and I hope that this coup attempt will be taught by everyone without political or personal abuse, once again by respect and conversation to your high-committee.
tbmm-2016-07-16sit01spe0007par0197	We would like to thank Mr. State Gardenli, the chairman of the National Movement Party and Parliamentary Group President Osmaniye MP. Now, it belongs to Peoples' Democratic Party Co-Chair and Parliamentary Group Chairman, İstanbul MP Selahattin Demirtaş, Deputy Leader of the Group and Diyarbakır MP İdris Bauken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-07-16sit01spe0008par0201	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the opinion of the People's Democratic Party on the will of our people and on the brutal coup attempt towards Parliament since yesterday. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, we are facing a coup attempt that begins at 10:00 p.m. on the evening of July 15th and continues to exist as a threat to this time, creating Turkey's democracy and its shape. First of all, on behalf of my party, I would like to express that I curse and condemn this coup d'état in the harshest possible way. I'd like to say once again that no military, bureaucratic or civilian coup may have a single legitimate motive. Our stance against any attack against Parliament and the will of the people has thus far been clear and primitive. The control of this coup attempt has been set up as our party's greatest wish and greatest goal. Unfortunately, due to reckless attacks on this coup attempt, 161 of our citizens lost their lives, 1,440 of our citizens were injured, even Parliament representing the will of the people was bombed by fighter planes, scanned by helicopters. Even this painting itself is sufficient to reveal how the democracy in our country is in great danger. In this respect, I wish all our citizens who lost their lives in yesterday's massacres to God's mercy, to their grieving relatives, and to all our people's condolences, to the wounded. Such attacks will never succeed yesterday or today or tomorrow. Those who have done such attacks or intend to do such attacks should know that those who want to do any coup against the will of the people in Turkey should know that the people of Turkey have never paid the price for the coup, they have never submitted, and they will never submit after that. Turkey's struggle for democracy in 1960, 1971, 1980 has stood firm against any coup in military or otherwise, as seen in its coups, February 28th and e-mails. We, too, would like to share with all our people the honor of being part of this struggle for democracy once again. The HDP will continue to play its mission, its mission, its role, as a representation of historical resistance, against any attempt to disrupt democratic politics. In this context, we have made it clear to our people that we will carry out any political cooperation on the basis of peace, democracy, human rights and the legal state. No way or method that tries to design politics outside of democratic politics will ever be accepted by our party. Dear lawmakers, the attacks against parliament, airports, publishing organizations, and many points of the country will be history as a breaking point in the history of politics, which began at around 10:00 p.m. last night and continued to increase its violence until morning, representing public, official and private institutions, politicians, national sovereignty. The 1960s and 1980 military coups, February 28th and e-migration samples, were typical military coups, but last night's coup attempt revealed that we are facing a very complex plan that exceeds a typical military coup by the bombing of hundreds of civilians in the middle of the street, the raids against institutions and organizations and air bombings. Obviously, the attacks that have lasted this late aim to eliminate the political institution and public functioning in Turkey and to impose a group of interests on the public and institutions in Turkey. In this respect, I'd like to stress once again that all 78 million were intended for political will. Precious lawmakers have been dragging the country to the edge of the cliff for a long time, with the power struggles and the social polarisations created by which Turkey is trying to take over the state. We've expressed on every platform we've ever been on, as part of the need to address the only point of this political and social tension, the fundamental issues of Turkey, especially the Kurdish issue, to strengthen the legal state and to investigate democratic politics, as a requirement of responsibility to our people and history. We have tried as Peoples' Democratic Party to make warnings that if our proposals are ignored, the coup mechanics will move to eliminate Turkey's democracy altogether. Despite all our warnings, all the rulings that have been at work so far have failed to fully meet the expectations of our people at the point of resolving the fundamental issues of Turkey, carrying out the democratisation moves and saving the country from a coup constitution. Again, the situation of the parallel structure, especially strengthened by false policies until 2013, has narrowed down the democratic political area as much as possible, and has made the political institution a clear target for the coupgers as a whole. We, the HDP, state that one of the most important historical realities that has laid the groundwork for this coup attempt aimed at the public is the conflict and war policies that were launched especially after June 7th. The conflicted environment has weakened the democratic political ground, the descent of tanks into cities has normalized the evil between society and violence, adding legal and actual powers to non-democratic forces, which, unfortunately, has kept coup mechanics alive and alive. A number of antidemocratic practices in the cities where the conflicting environment has taken initiative from civil will to military will, which have brought life to impact mechanics have come before all our peoples, unfortunately. In one country, coup mechanics operates in an environment where democratic politics and law, justice, equality and freedom are not provided. In this respect, when we think about the possibility of a coup, this coup attempt on July 15th will never end until the ground that leads to coups is destroyed, democracy and freedoms are developed. The July 15th attack and coup attempt, which, thankfully, he did not find what he was hoping for, was defeated by strong message of democracy, with the right attitude of our people, the political institution. As of today, important tasks and responsibilities fall to all political institutions, especially political power. We especially think it's vital that the political institution put the hat back in front of it on the ground where the attack was launched and that it began to renegotiate fundamental policies. Like yesterday, and in the future, we want to express once again that the antidote to the coup is peace and democracy. There's always the possibility of a coup in a place where peace and democracy are not built, and unfortunately, it will continue to exist. Yesterday in Ankara, we need to assess the danger that brought out tanks and fighter planes from this point of view. As long as democratic politics has not been fundamentally expressed in this parliamentary chair since August, we have always noted the possibility of the coup attempt yesterday in Ankara, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey. But on July 15th, our rights, without looking at anyone's identity, without questioning their race, language, religion, and their stand for democracy, have given us all great hope for the future. In this scope, all political institutions, particularly political power, must immediately take on this vital urgency for Turkey's democratisation. All political institutions and responsibilities must quickly fulfill their responsibility for dissolution, polarizing language, the establishment of a law based on human rights and freedom, the end of political operations, the end of antidemocratic search, prosperity, peace and security for the country. Dear lawmakers, this anti-democracy coup on July 15th, and these massacres, once again, we are strongly condemning them with no buts, no buts, no buts. The government has no argument today that it is very important for the entire country to act with opposition parties on strengthening democratic politics, to reveal what has happened since yesterday to our people and to the public with all its reality. We're looking at an important generation to take our country out of the spiral of coups and turn it into the island of democracy. I'd like to say once again that we have found the sensitive attitude of civil society, civil society, working forces, and that the attitude must continue until the end of this trend, due to the fulfillment of this millennium and the fact that political party and individual interests remain in the background of yesterday's events. Finally, we call on all our peoples from here: one of the aims of an attempt to attack democracy is to increase polarization in society, create chaos, open the doors to civil war. In this context, no one should use violence and difficult methods to serve the purposes of those who want chaos. As important as the position of our people, who have demonstrated their democratic responses as they can, it would be wrong and dangerous to reveal a series of scenes of violence that would be unbecoming to our country. Therefore, in the coming term, each of us needs to take care of this consciousness, this responsibility, and its own rhetoric and its own practice. Democracy is the rule of the people, and chaos is the goal of anti-democracy. I would like to say once again that our only solution to all our problems is democracy and peace, and I would like to offer you all once again the importance of the establishment of a broad-accession commission, with a record of being equal to every political party, to reach any information and document that will reveal this coup process in full detail and take necessary democratic measures for the future. I'll send my best to all our people, and once again, I wish them well from here. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-16sit01spe0009par0216	[[Applause from HDP and CHP rows]] Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Parliamentary Party Deputy Chairman İdris Baluken (HDP) has expressed their views as a result of the talks made by Mr. Idris Baluken. One lesson at a time. There are lessons here, too. One of them was that our Turkey, as in the previous times of the coup, fell into a flood without communication, not knowing what had happened. Those times are over now. Another has shown that our society absorbs democracy. Another issue is proof that the ambitions of those who aim to divide Turkey remain in their sockets. Turkey will not be divided, it will not be broken, it will walk in integrity. One nation, one state, one country, one flag; no one has the right to prevent it, no power, no power. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] It is also our wish that our council continue to work in a structure that is unfighting, bowing down to our issues. Of course, it is certain that the peace of our House will be reflected in our society, and it will be reflected in the development of brotherhood and peace. Without a contentious society, we will continue our work in one heart. Congressmans, I'm reading a statement with the joint signatures of our presidency and four political parties: Turkish Grand National Assembly's Joint Declaration We, the People's Party of Justice and Development, Republican People's Party, Peoples' Democratic Party and National Movement Party groups, strongly condemn the coup attempt launched on July 15th against our beloved nation itself, on the night of July 15th, and on the morning of July 16th and its attacks on parliament. [[Applause]] Our nation stood in the face of a coup to set an example for the entire world and prevented a bloody coup attempt. This holy nation, which protects the Republic of Turkey and its institutions with its life, deserves all praise and appreciation. (EC PARTY, CHP and HP rows) We are grateful to the martyrs who gave their lives for this cause, and we will never forget our heroes. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as representative of this nation of saints and heroes, has, by the power of our nation, performed its duty under bombs and bullets, has once again demonstrated that it is a worthy parliament for its nation. It should not be forgotten that the TBM is a Parliament that governs the Liberation War, which has led Turkey's transition to democracy, developed the democratic parliamentary system over the years, fighting to take a nation out of poverty and poverty and bring it to the level of non-profit civilization. Our coven has taken a proud stand against the blow with great courage as one heart, one body. The response to the coupters gave the world the message it needed. The TBM's commitment to the coup attempt is also extremely valuable to the further settlement and development of democracy in Turkey. Everyone should know that in the future, as is today, every hand reaching for our nation, our national will, the Veteran Assembly will find the will of the TBMM of steel. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] The TBM will continue to reflect people's unwavering faith in democracy. It will be valuable and historic for all parties in our parliament to stand up to the coup attempt in a common manner and a common language. This common attitude and common language will further strengthen our nation and national will. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is in charge of its mission in one heart. The People's Assembly will make those who attack the nation and its sovereignty pay the ultimate price in law. The most concrete proof that nothing will ever be the same in Turkey is this joint declaration. Even though we have different opinions as four parties, we are all on the side of national will with all of our MPs, with all of our agencies, and we are all on the side of national will together, and we will take care of national will forever. May our nation rest in peace. The National Assembly and the MPs have not dropped the trust of the nation and will not drop it. Once again, we strongly condemn the attack on our democracy, our nation, the national will. We ask our people to refrain from acts of violence that exceed the limits of democratic response, which are unbecoming of our country. We remember our martyrs who died resisting the coup with respect, gratitude, and mercy. He wishes our wounded a speedy recovery, and we wish our nation well. In this difficult moment, we welcome all the friendly and brotherly countries that are standing next to Turkey and our beloved nation, delivering support messages. Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party Nationalist Movement Party Peoples' Democratic Party Group President Deputy Group Chairman [[Applause]] Dear lawmakers, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (July 19th 2016) to discuss legislation and proposals in order to discuss other tasks from the commissions. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
