tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the system during that time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system will be able to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes' time. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, tonight we're going to understand the blessed Mirac Night. On the occasion of Miraç Night, we would like to share our feelings with you as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Presidential Court. The night of the Mirach reminds us of rising up in the realm of meaning and reaching divine mercy and peace, thereby bearing beautiful morality, righteousness, honesty, love, and respect. We wish this blessed night to bring peace, peace, and happiness to our country, our people, the Islamic world, and all our people, and the night of the night of the Miraç of the Islamic world. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Onursel Adıl. Here you go, Mr. Nice Name.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0002par0019	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-topic commitment to the problems of universities and increasingly antidemocratic practices in higher education. I salute the General Assembly. Honourable lawmakers have signed practices that have been undermining free thought and scientific autonomy for 14 years, trying to transform universities into AKP's political academy. The power, which claims to have fought September 12th at every turn, has embraced and used the product of September 12th Fascism for its own interests. That is why the AKP has not lifted the YOK in all these years. Instead of removing the NGO, it has made it an extension of the political body. The government, which shackles freedom of expression, academic freedoms and academic autonomy, rejects fundamental rights and freedoms with the policies of intimidation and oppression that will not search September 12th. The brains of this country that produce are detained by raiding their homes at night, arrested, fired, forced to resign. Yes, today, there is a free trial of Teachers Esra, Teachers of Coral, Kıvanç and Muzaffer but today, many academics face practices that will be written on the shame page of history. According to the March 2016 data of the solidarity group for Academics for Peace, we will not be a party to this crime. The administrative, judicial investigation has been launched against the 669/u of the 2212 academics who signed the declaration has been suspended, while 37 academics have been suspended. However, a new one is added every day to cases against academics, administrative investigations, dismissals and dismissals. Just yesterday, two academics who signed the declaration of Academics for Peace were laid off by their universities. On the other hand, disciplinary investigations against students are increasing. Students are tagged, expelled from school, targeted, unable to continue their studies due to financial improbability and pressures. Dear lawmakers, the government is seeking a new coup against academic freedoms and union rights on March 21, 2016, with its witch hunt bill for the presidency of the TBM. The bill, which gives the head of the SEC and the High Disciplinary Board extraordinary powers, seeks to silence the academy and intimidate opposition academics. Unional rights and freedoms are to be taken underfoot by the bill envisioning a change in the 2547 Higher Education Law. On the other hand, the derogatory process of the SOPs is being interrupted. Thousands of researchers have been victimised by the ruling of February 4th. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as of today, over 6 million college students, over 150,000 professors, and administrative and technical staff, including 100,000 of them, and the most important components of Turkey, are facing serious problems. The government, which boasts of opening a university with each, unfortunately ignores the difference between universities. There are 15 references worldwide to an academic publication published in Turkey in 2002, with no reference as of today. Political power strives to make universities depend on itself by choice of university presidents. The number of women presidents in 190 universities is only 15. Mr. President, before I finish my words, I would like to express my respect and longing for all the revolutionaries who died in a political decision on May 6, 1972, who had been executed with a political decision, whose longing was only to create a more viable Turkey, three patriotic revolutionary youth Deniz Gezmi, Yusuf Aslan and Hussein, who had lost their lives to exploitation and exploitation. (Applause from CHP and HDP in rows) Greetings to those who are walking into eternity for the brotherhood of the people. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0003par0030	Thank you, Mr. Nice Name. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Elazığ MP Ömer Serdar. Here you go, Mr. Serdar.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0004par0035	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath out of the agenda because of the Miraç Kandili. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, it is known as the greatest miracle of our Lord Muhammad (SAV) and the holy night in which he returns to the Islamic world with the good news from God. Miraç, at the invitation of Gabriel (ASV) on the 27th night of the month of the Recep, was led by the Prophet (ASV) from the Mascidi Haram. From there to the Mascidi Aksa, to the higher worlds, to divine peace. On his journey this night, our Lord saw with his eyes all the things that must be seen until the end of the realms of the kingdom, and the beginning of the kingdom, and the end of the kingdom, and he was accepted into the presence of the Lord. Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid we've come to realize this holy night in the days when the Islamic world had to suffer deep suffering, when the Muslim geography had to suffer a severe crisis. Almost all Islamic geography is a fire site; from the Balkans to Yemen, a bleeding wound all over the Islamic geography; from the Middle East; from the recent tensions in the Caucasus; from the land where we once lived, from which we wrote our history; the Palestinian bleeding wound, the Iraqi grief, the deep suffering of Egypt, the Syrian sadness; the Azerbaijan, Afghanistan, East Turkistan, our common concern. In addition, terrorist organizations, such as DAIH, El Nusra, Boko Haram, defame the name of a religion with peace and brotherhood in its teaching. He says, "Godu Akbar! Once again, none of these terrorist organizations, none of these murderers are brothers and sisters. They are not in the way and in the way of a Prophet. Their perverted and perverse ideology is completely illegitimate and inhuman. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, right below our borders is a human drama. Millions of innocent people who have fled the inhuman massacres of a cruel dictator, seeking protection from barrel bombs, tanks -- religion, race, gender -- have linked their hopes to Turkey. We have nearly 3 million refugee brothers who have taken refuge in our country in the last two years. Just a day or two ago, Aleppo, the apocalyptic relic, was bombed, and we all saw the babies who were killed by the bombs that were dropped, and we watched the pictures of the bodies pulled out from under the rubble, hurt inside. We are the representatives of a civilization that says, "Take away the enemy, be a ointment for the bleeder, open your heart for the oppressed." That's why we can't watch the human drama that's happening on our borders. For this reason, we open our doors to more than three million refugees who seek refuge in our country and worry about their problems. As the West develops diversionary tactics for these people, we are hosting them in the most modern camps, holding them in our arms. Because Turkey is the only port where these people will be sheltered, Turkey is the only country in which they have their hopes, and it is our human duty, our faith, and the responsibility that our history has put on us. Dear lawmakers, the Islamic geography that we are involved in has been calculated daily, changing plans, changing plans every day. The only country that resists and resists these accounts is the Republic of Turkey; it is also the only port of hope for the Islamic world. A Turkey that is aware of its historical mission, whose power is from its past, and has great goals, is the only hope of Muslim geography. That's why the dominant forces of this fire, which surrounds our territory, want to spread this spark to our country. They're trying to intimidate us into turning their colonial wheel. The imperial power centers that spread the poison of radicalism on the Gulf-Arab line also want to paralyze our country through separatist terrorism. That's why they donated to the east of our country. They're supporting the destructive and separatist terrorist organization that killed tens of thousands of people behind the scenes, and they want to act with their collaborators and their pawns in the country and disturb our peace. My time's up. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Actually, I have a lot to tell tonight. Tonight, at least for our country, for the oppressed geography, for the oppressed people. I congratulate you all on your Miraci.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0005par0045	Thank you, Your Serdar. The third unscheduled statement belongs to the Ottoman MP Ruhi Ersoy, who asked for the appointment of May 3rd Nationalist Day. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0006par0050	Mr. President, nationalism is the most powerful concept in the history scene, and today it is the social side of the struggle between nations. This concept depends on the power of the national identity. The elements of national identity are national language, national culture, national history, and that sense of national belonging. No culture, no nationalism without the nation. There can be no community without cultural unity, no common emotion in joy and grief. It is difficult to understand the Day of the Millitarians, which we today evaluate and make sense of, without knowing the events known as the Turkish-Turanism trial on May 3, 1944. Twenty-three people including Hüseyin Nihal Atsız, Alparslan Türkş, Zeki Velidi Togan, Reha Oguz Türkkan, Fethi Thevetoglu, Orhan Shaik Gökyay, Nejdet Sançar, Jihat War Fer, Nurullah Barıman, Cebar Senel and Cemal Oğuz Öcal have been tried for their nationalism and nationalism. Turkish nationalists have been judged for their love of country and nation. Turkish nationalists were tortured in coffins, Turkish nationalists standing up against all forms of imperialism "Clayers are our rank." He did not tire of torture, nor did he deviate from his trials. Turkicism has been transformed into a strange pariah in its own home. May 3, 1944 was a civil, domestic and national uprising against the one-party dictatorship, against the provision of a single man. May the souls of the intellectuals and the men of the cause, who exhale with their faith in this rebellion, who call it right, law, freedom, and the heads of the road, rest in peace. Today, in our country, there are similar processes similar to the events of May 3, 1944. Nationalism is being taken underfoot, different obstacles to Turkish nationalism are being set up and dirty games are being staged. Yesterday, Turkish nationalists who tried to intimidate, give up, lost, continued to experience consciousness and consciousness. Today, the May 3 spirit, the case of Turkish nationalism, continues to live and live in safe hands. Although the obstacles set in front of Turkish nationalists are huge, however dirty the games they staged, the case is on its way to the caravan. We wish the great Turkish nation, on May 3, 1944, to celebrate the Day of Turkish Nationality, to bring unity and unity to the Turkish world. We also wish that tonight's Mirach Kandili would bring blessings and peace to the entire world of Islam, to the Turkish world, to the human world. And if the earth were to fall, and the sky, and the fire, and the ashes, and the four sides / we would walk again to the higher tongue, and we would be the brass-hearted Turks of lightning, the type of lightning, the type, the hurricane, who did not die, and he said, "The land that lies in the heart of the horses is not wiped off, even if a horseless hero falls to the ground!" The nation's nationalist, international world view was shaped and sprouted in coffins, and Basbug Alparslan Turkeş, who took the lead of the Turkish Islamic nation, had laid the groundwork for the Turkish political life as well. In 1965, these 1944 incidents were expressed in front of the Turkish nation as a minor scale, as an idea of the nationalist movement in 1969, and the uninterrupted view of the future of the nationalist international movement. The nationalist legislative movement is responsible for showing to the great Turkish nation today that the salt does not smell with its political body, its leader and its organization, and that the yeast is not corrupt. Populism and daily politics for the nationalist movement are responsible not only for saving the day, picking up the day and making politics with the recovered days, but for the history, the history, the history of the Turkish nation, the state and future of its existence, for securing the state, the presence of the great Turkish nation's family's future, and for what he said yesterday, the thesis of the nationalist imperial movement that came out today is the same, not only in the 1944s, in the 1994s, in the 1994s, and in the 2016s, and that its rights will one day be maintained by the nationalist movement of the great Turkish nation's nation, and that the law will be fed from its law, and that its wish is to believe that the same as the next day, so far from the great Muslim mountain of Turkey, so far away, so far up to the great Muslim mountain of Turkey, and so far from the Islamic religion. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0007par0059	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. Now, I'm going to take turns making a commitment to the 15 members of parliament who are demanding word by entering the electronic system. I'm starting the promise process. Dear Maker...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0008par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. The jihadist terrorist organizations, which the government has provided truckloads of weapons and fed and raised in camps, are now targeting our country. It is the power's responsibility if they have been shot by these protected militants, who have been tasked with protecting buildings of ISIS terrorists for years. In the same way, the Church has been hit by rockets for days, and so far, 20 of our citizens have lost their lives and dozens have been injured. However, there is not a single satisfactory explanation for who launched the rocket into the Church. Although the government and the palace know that ISIS is the one who shot Kilis, they have tried every way not to say ISIS with word games. I'm asking the authority who gave our party a head start in the fight against terrorism: who's firing rockets at the Church? Why don't you explain that the ISIS people who attacked Kilis? What are the reasons behind your instinct to protect ISIS?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0009par0070	Mr. All...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0010par0072	As it is known, Balıkesir is a place where olives grow densely from Edremit Bay to Ayvallı. The olive maker faces serious problems. It is not the farmers who will allow the consumer to eat this product cheaply, but the government who will subsidies it. The government is required to reduce 8 per cent VAT to 0, reset it for at least a little while, by production units. When the manufacturer doesn't make or destroy money, he doesn't look at his tree anymore or he cuts it down. This is a very dangerous situation for our country. I ask the Minister: Do you intend to reset the VAT or reduce it to 1 percent, even if it's only temporary in olives? What kind of support do you have for olive producers besides fertilizer? How much does Turkey need olive oil? Does production meet the need? Do you have any work on stockpiling? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0011par0075	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0012par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. I celebrate the Miraç Kandili of the Islamic world. There is a state hospital in Chile district of Istanbul, but there are no doctors in every department at the state hospital. Since there are no doctors in each department, our citizens in Chile cannot use their rights to health, they are suffering a great deal in health. At the same time, because Chile's population grew during the summer, the capacity of the existing inadequate hospital has increased, adding another victim to one victim. Buses from Istanbul and Chile of İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality do not work, public buses do. These are fish hoards, where citizens come from Chile to Istanbul. Our citizens in Chile are victims of this. I demand that the political power take immediate measures for the removal of this victimization of the Chilean people. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0013par0081	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0014par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Constitutions demonstrate the use of sovereignty and the assurance of rights and freedoms. The Constitution of the 1982 coup is a problem in these two aspects of legitimacy. Our guardian Constitution, which restricts national sovereignty on record and condition, does not allow the control of the national will and the fulfillment of the strong Turkey ideal with its unstable government model. The guardian management model interprets reforms on freedom of faith and expression with a oppressive understanding and prevents reforms from finding life. Therefore, despite 21 changes made, the authoritarian and antidemocratic essence of the Constitution cannot be altered. Instead of the Constitution, which is inadmissible, I repeat our obligation to build a new liberal, democratic constitution based on the presidential model, and salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0013par0085	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0015par0087	Mr. President, Congressmans, I have been promised today that we can give our mothers some good news from our House before Mother's Day on May 8th. In our country, one of the most important problems of our mothers, our women, is that most of them don't have social security. According to research by the Turkish Statistical Agency, only 17 of every 100 pensioners in our country are women and 83 of them are men. Our mothers spend their whole lives devoted to their children, their families, working for years, but they can't retire because their insurance never started or because it's too late. The arrangement for birth debt covers only mothers who give birth after being insured, unfortunately. I'd like to call all parties: let's end this separation between mothers and mothers, and together, let's give all our mothers the chance to borrow pre-insurance birth and give our mothers some good news before Mother's Day. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0016par0090	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0017par0092	Mr. President, first of all, I congratulate the Miraç Kandili of all lawmakers and our people. Since April 27th, many of our soldiers and police have been martyred again. Another rocket attack was launched by ISIS. Our citizens have been killed or injured. A live bomb attack was launched in Bursa. There was a bomb attack on the police department in Gaziantep. Besides, the tradesman is miserable, crying out for fixed income, the peasant is desperate. So, what's the agenda in the House when there's such a heavy painting? Immunity and fighting. Unfortunately, when we can find solutions to Turkey's problems, we spend time in a fight and mayhem, locking the agenda to the issue of immunity. I, as a member of parliament, apologize to all our citizens, and I invite all lawmakers to come to common sense, and it is my duty to remind you once again of the responsibility of the MP. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0018par0095	Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0019par0097	Mr. President, today is the anniversary of press freedom. I'm celebrating the day of the press workers so that press workers and our democracy can live more freely, so that our press can be free. In the villages of Farmville and Gidirli of Samsun Havza, infrastructure and road problems have been known to exist and travel under very difficult conditions. The fact that Vezirkörü's Czech, Çalköy, İmircik, Güldere, Devalalan, Kabalı villages' sewers, roads and drinking water, the fact that today's lives are incompatible with the realities of a habitable country, that our lives are under the same infrastructure as they were in the 1950s.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0018par0100	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0020par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. I celebrate the Miraç Kandili of the entire Islamic world, and wish the Mirac to bring peace and brotherhood to our country. Also, May 3rd, I celebrate the Day of the Turks, honoring all my friends in the cause, especially Basbug Alparslan Turkesh and Nihal Horseless, who raised millions of Turkish nationalists. My question will be to Mr. Minister: The government on the promotion of the narcissist has told us about the exports in 2015 and 2016, and will provide cash premiums for the crisis with Russia, including Rize, Antalya, Izmir and Turkey, many areas of Turkey, but the most narcissist exporter has not yet been paid. I expect you to bring this matter to the attention of the Council of Ministers and to address the problems of the already struggling narcissist manufacturers.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0021par0106	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0022par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Tuncay Özkan, the Izmir MP of the Republican People's Party, has had a very severe surgery on stem cell treatment in Germany in the last few days abroad. As a result of this surgery, a significant portion of his liver was found to be seriously damaged. During Silivri trials, unfortunately, a portion of dear Tuncay Özkan....of his liver was poisoned by a toxic substance called DDT. This resulted in how unlawful the trials of Ergenekon in Silivri have been. From here, I thank you, Mr. President, our beloved Congressman Tuncay of the High Parliament, tells us to get back to Ozkan. He expects him to return to us safely.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0021par0112	Mr. Tuncay Ozkan, MP of Izmir, we wish you well and good health. I hope he gets back with us as soon as possible. Mr. Akadun...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0023par0116	Thank you. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, my questions to our Ministers of Agriculture and Transport: EXPO 2016, as we all know, were opened in Antalya ten days ago. The EXPO Tower is still out of order, what's the cause, when will it be operational? If the rail system isn't finished, why is it open as if it's finished, when will it be activated? Why are the east, north and west freeways expected to be finished for EXPO not finished? Why is there no club operating outside China, Holland, Italy, even though 53 countries have been reported to participate? Why are construction materials, construction waste, and debris still common in the EXPO area? In the middle of the road to Antalya-Alanya, is the right of AKP's Metropolitan Mayor to use light advertising given to opposition municipalities in other cities? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0024par0120	Mr. Whitebird Illustration...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0025par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. On Friday (May 6, 2016) it is the 44th anniversary of the execution of Deniz, Joseph and Hussein. Saturday (May 6, 1972) is a black day for Turkish democracy history. The memory of the three young seedlings, who were sent to the gallows among their cheers, was flagged in the battle of democracy today, as well as the memory of the Sea Gezmiş, Yusuf Aslan, and Hüseyin İnan. The seas, against imperialism, became the voice and heart of all Turkey, of workers, peasants, officers and students; they burned the torch of beautiful sunny days in our country where we would drive the engines into the blue, and sacrificed their lives without hesitation for the ideal of Turkey, which was completely independent of those three plants. As Can Yücel said: Of course the longest run in Turkey is the revolution/ They ran the most beautiful 100 meters of it/ They took the rope first/ love for you boys, let there be love for you!
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0024par0125	Dear Nurlu...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0026par0127	Dear lawmakers, it is impossible to understand that in this country, where the public's taxed throat bridges are $5, the contractor will be paid $117 for every vehicle that passes through the newly opened Gulf Pass Bridge. According to their contract with the firm, if 40,000 vehicles per day do not cross the bridge, the remaining difference must be paid from the state vault. The AKP government, like Mad Dumrul, who boasts that they have not recovered a penny from the treasure, will receive money from the past as well. Unfortunately, the same danger awaits Manisas. The Soapcubeli Tunnel between İzmir-Manisa, which has not been completed for five years, will also be paid for 7.5 lira per car. It must be free to pass through the Soapcube Tunnel when it is opened to deliver the Manisa from the hands of Mad Dumruls. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0024par0129	Mr. Bozkurt...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0027par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. Being a government is a serious business. The first duty of governments is not to surrender their will to others, but to govern the state by that will. The prerequisite for running the state is to ensure the safety of its citizens' lives and property, providing the country's territorial integrity. In the church, the government, who is weak in the security of its citizens' lives and goods, is also watching 17 of our islands invaded by Greeks in the Aegean. We expect them to inform the House of this matter immediately and take measures to end the Greek occupation immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0028par0134	Mr. Wellercuoğlu...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0029par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. The number of miners lost their lives during the AKP's rule -- 1,075 people from 2003-2014. Of all the causes of death, there are reasons such as nepotism, lack of supervision, lack of discretion, lack of adequate measures. Post-mortem, when those with flaws were supposed to be dealt with and punished, our miners and their families were almost punished. At the business health and safety meeting, the head of the business director admitted that the provision of the equipment needed for the tracking and lifeline system could not be provided, and that the arrangement to save lives in the mines could not be carried out and was permanently delayed, and that there were problems in our country, and that there were problems in its imports, as well as in the lack of appropriate institutions. So that no more of our people would lose their lives...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0028par0139	Mr. Depboy...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0030par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I congratulate the blessed Miraç Kandili, of the Turkish Islamic world, and the great Turkish nation's May 3rd Day of Turkicism. I wish for the unity and unity of our nation, peace and prosperity of this beautiful night to be a blessing. Mr. Minister, there are cracks in houses and village mosques in Aydın Province, Yeniköy district of Karacasu, which started fifty years ago and continued every year. Does your Ministry work to move the settlement to a region near the current region of the village, which is a disaster? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0031par0145	Thank you, Mr. Depboy. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The three-way meeting of Romania, Poland, the Parliamentary Foreign Commissions of Turkey, and the visit of Deputy Foreign Commission Chairman Jamalatttin Kani Torun to Somalia, the 6/4/2016 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Council of Parliament, and the 9th Amendment. The visit and meeting will be presented to the General Assembly's information on the regulation of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey under the 7th and 10th Articles of Law No. 3620. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to establish the dimensions of the irregular immigration and human trafficking that Turkey has implemented, the Constitution must be launched under Articles 104 and 105 of the Civil Code, in order to investigate rights violations on the borders of Syria, Iraq and Iran and on the coasts of Iran and to develop policies based on the principle of not sending back in accordance with international refugee law. After the civil war in Syria, there has been a great flow of refugees in Turkey. According to official figures in November 2015, there are 2,200,000 refugees registered. Turkey's fundamental approach to the refugee issue has unfortunately failed to see beyond the fact that it is a tool for its political interests in the Middle East. People who have been persecuted by the deepening war regime in Syria, ISIS, Al Nusra, and by the destruction of people's living spaces are flocking to Turkey's border. Thousands of refugees have been exposed to multiple rights violations, especially the rights of life, because Turkey has not implemented an open-door policy that will allow legal passage on the Syrian border from Hatay to Cizre and has opened and closed the border gates in an arbitrary and irregular manner. Turkey has closed many doors on the Syrian border, citing security in recent months, leaving those seeking international protection at the mercy of smugglers. The latest agreement with the EU is planned to increase practices such as the wire-line pull at the border. According to the Human Rights Watch 2015 Report, Turkey has been declared only through smugglers. Thus, men, women, children, and old people try to cross the mountains in the middle of the night with the sound of gunshots coming from around them in fear. The official closure of the border, as Turkey claims, does not prevent the flood of refugees, means handing over people who are forced to emigrate from their country because of the war, directly into the hands of human traffickers. The amount and the method of paying smugglers to cross the border to Turkey and from Turkey to EU countries is publicly known. In parallel with the agreement reached with the EU, it violates the principle of not sending back those who already exist from Syria and in need of protection from Iraq, which is a fundamental principle known by international refugee law. Turkey is pushing refugees back from the borders of Syria and Iraq. Refugees who wanted to enter the border and were caught trying to cross from Turkey to Europe say they were beaten by security guards at the border and were taken into custody and then deported. Moreover, many people who wanted to cross the border with Turkey have died due to military intervention. In 2015, 420,000 Syrians tried to cross over to Greece. Switching to the other side with boats is done by human traffickers in ways where there are no proper and reliable conditions. Witnesses have stated that the Coast Guard fired a gun at the boats and created fear and panic, even aimed directly at themselves or the boat to detonate. People who have had to emigrate from war on both the land border and sea border are pushed to more dangerous conditions as a result of Turkey's and the EU's border policy. While applications for civilians in need of international protection are so strict, gang members such as ISIS, Al Nusra, can cross the border and make their way into Turkey as they please. The perpetrators of many violent incidents, especially the Suruç and Ankara massacres, are known to have been gang members entering from Syria to Turkey, carrying large amounts of explosives and weapons across the border. Foreign fighters are known to be able to use Turkey to join gangs in Syria and Iraq, as reported by national and international media. Instead of taking measures against gangs, Turkey is taking measures to prevent asylum seekers from entering Turkey. Turkey must aim to resolve the problems of people who have had to emigrate by changing its foreign policy that supports the war as soon as possible. Therefore, we propose that a research commission be set up so that Turkey's border policies can be established on the basis of the sizes of irregular migration and human trafficking; the investigation of rights violations on the Syrian, Iraq and the Iranian border and on the coasts of Iran; and the principle of not sending them back in accordance with international refugee law. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate sexual harassment and violence against women in detention and prisons, and to determine the legal and administrative measures necessary for the termination of these practices, I demand that the Constitution be opened under Articles 98 of the Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Interior Charter. As in the 1990s, the sexual torture charge against a woman who was one of the systematic crimes committed during the government's oppressive times is on Turkey's agenda again. A dirty war policy is being carried out on the female body as part of the total war concept of the AKP's rule, resorting to sexual harassment, rape and torture in order to break the will of women who raise their voice against antidemocratic and oppressive practices. Since 7 June, in the geography where social opposition is strong, some women have been detained and taken to the police station for attending a press release, others have been tried to avoid sexual torture in the detention vehicle before being taken to the police station. The display of Kevser Elturk's body tortured and tortured in Varto district of Mush, threatening to share naked photos of Figen Şahin, who was subjected to sexual torture in Adana, on social media, at Şç. C and L. He was detained in his class at Erzurum Ataturk University as he was about to take the exam. Diyarbakir's robbery into police underwear has been a series of cases in the media over the past months when Diyarbakır Mayor Fatma Şık Barut and Silvan Co-Chair Yüksel Bodakçı were brought in August to the Sincan Women's Closed Prison where they were forced to seek and search for naked. Lastly, the letter of Şeş Yıldız who was taken into custody in Diyarbakır on September 6 has been brought to the public's agenda for sexual torture and threats carried out by Gülizar Akkad, detained in Diyarbakır Bismil on November 8th. All of this is showing us that sexual violence and torture in custody is a state policy. In particular, it is known that in the 1990s, police who committed sexual torture in places where the Kurds lived were not suspended or that the judicial process was not launched; in short, the mentality of non-punishment against sexual crimes is dominated. Throughout the state's past and the AKP's claim to zero tolerance for torture, sexual harassment and torture against female prisoners has been brought to light, unfortunately these cases have not been actively investigated. All of this is in our memory, and with new cases involved, there is a need for serious consideration and a thorough examination of this situation. Many international agreements, including Turkey's side, describe naked searching in custody and any sexual assault as torture. For this reason, governments who side with the contract are obliged to carefully investigate verbal and physical assaults and claims of torture and to take precautions with deterrent punishments. The only way to prevent such practices, which have been brought to a lot of attention and lower trust in law enforcement, is to immediately investigate these allegations and punish those responsible. For all these reasons, we propose that a research commission be established to determine the legal and administrative measures that should be submitted to end these practices by investigating sexual torture cases against women in detention and prisons that have been on the agenda of the TBMM since 7 June. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The unpredictable structure of Antalya tourism has become a threat to the national economy and social structure by affecting both the labour market and investors. Between January 2014 and November 2014, the number of foreign tourists arriving in Antalya dropped from 11 million 375,584 to 10 million 769,353, as of January 2015-November. Statistics show that the number of foreign tourists entering Antalya has decreased by 5.33% this year alone. However, the decline of the number of foreign tourists from Russia by 18.53 per cent is also remarkable in the tourism sector. As a result of this negative picture, investments and natural assets within our national assets have become obsolete. Hotel news for sale and mass layoffs from Antalya also reveal the reality of the situation. The tourism industry is far from sustainable as it is. Therefore, with respect to the need for the opening of a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105, in order to determine social and economic problems involved in Antalya tourism, and to establish legal regulations. 1) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] [[Aydın]] [[Erzurum]] [[Scholarship]] [[Isparta]] 7) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Samsun]] [[Ankara]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Mughle]] [[Balıkesir]] 17) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 18) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] 19) Izzet Ulvi Router [[İstanbul]] 20) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[Inconceived]] The number of foreign tourists entering Antalya has decreased by 5.33 per cent from the previous year as of November 2015. The number of tourists from Russia, including long-term contracts and everything that is trying to maintain its activities with low profit rates, has decreased by 18.53 per cent in the same period. Antalya, who has recently been head of the most affected by AKP government's unpredictable foreign political moves, has been struggling with major economic and social losses because Russian tourists interrupted our country after the crash. In addition to new hotels and mass layoffs to close-down hotels every day, unemployment figures across the city are expected to rise greatly. The rise in crime rates in areas where unemployment rates have risen and the rise in social problems by facing economic deprivation are also remarkable. Antalya, who has an important place in the tourism sector, is affected by all major and small international political crises, showing that this sector is governed by daily policies and is easily exposed to all kinds of political threats. Antalya and our country, which make up a significant part of our national tourism capacity alone, need a more professional and comprehensive tourism approach. With respect, we would like to discuss the potential of a region with 12 months of tourism capacity, to explore visitors diversification and the negative effects of difficulties affecting Russian tourists' preferences on Antalya and Turkish tourism, to take relevant measures towards the solution and to establish legal regulations, to open a parliamentary study of Articles 104 and 105. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two other papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The 26-day leave of absence from 28/3/2016 due to the alibi of İstanbul MP Shafah Pavey has been approved by the 9th Amendment, dated 6/4/2016 of the Presidential Court. It is submitted to the approval of the General Assembly. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The chairman of the delegation led by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Ismail Kahraman, heads of the Indonesian House of Representatives, Dr. H. Ade Komarudin, President of the New Zealand House of Representatives David Carter and Singapore Parliament Speaker Halimah Yacob make official visits to Indonesia, New Zealand and Singapore to respond to the event's invitations, and is presented to the General Assembly under the 6th Amendment of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, the members of the group have a request for a statement, and I'd like to bring you up to speed on something before I give them my word. A meeting was held with both the senior members of the group, as well as the representatives of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, as chairman of the Grand National Assembly, in order to ensure implementation unity in the works of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. The issues agreed upon at these meetings are within the knowledge of the groups. According to the agreement reached at a meeting with the representatives of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the group's deputy presidents can be promised 2+1 minutes if they demand a word before they reach the agenda. The deadline will be one minute after we're on the agenda. I believe today, Mr. Group Vice Presidents have neglected that due to the intensity of the agenda. For today's sake, without precedent, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who are demanding a word, 2+1 minutes. I'm taking turns meeting your commitment demands. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0032par0263	Thank you, Mr. President. Congratulations to the Miraç Kandili, of all the worlds of Islam and our beloved nation. The recent events suggest that everyone, our entire nation, should be hand in hand, shoulder in hand. Our country is under grave attack from all sides. Time is a time when everyone must join forces and join forces against traitors and the enemy who intends to defend their country. Various terrorist organisations commit suicides with live bombs and bomb-loaded vehicles to create panic in major cities. The aim of terrorists is to give the Turkish people the feeling that they are not safe anywhere they live. Terrorists are also trying to poison tourism, trade, economics, and daily life by removing the feeling of confidence in the public. That's why ISIS attacks the Church, that's why the PKK is setting up bombs on the streets, that's why they're attacking big cities with live bombs. The Turkish nation is martyring their children. While the AKP's government is busy with the agenda of Turkey, the new constitution and secularism, ISIS hits the police station with obusses in Karkamis. A serious migration from the city is taking place after the attack on catharsis continues and 18 people die. Bombs have been set off by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in Varto, lice, Nusaybin and Şırnak. Furthermore, the PKK is doing everything it can to expand its terror field; in this context, Manisa Soma-Kyrktree detonates the road by entrapment, and is being attacked by live bombs near Ulucami. As the PKK cleans up its neighborhoods in the southeast, it tries to move terrorism to western and large cities.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0031par0266	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Akchay. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0032par0268	Turkey faces a serious terrorist trial planned by internal and external focus. The political and militant extensions of terrorism are trying to spread chaos all over the country. Everyone who lives in this country, we have to shoulder-to-shoulder all citizens against any attack from the inside or the outside. The biggest responsibility on this issue falls to power, and with the presidential, secularism and new constitutional debates, the citizens must cease to oppose Turkey and should not be separated while the enemy unites, I thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0031par0269	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0033par0272	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in city centers under blockade, in areas, in squares -- as we have seen recently on May 1st -- the AKP government, which launched a total attack on our people in democratic actions and events, seems determined to carry this wave of attack into Parliament's work as well. Both in the Parliamentary General Assembly work and commission work, for months, attacks have been being developed against opposition parties by a lynch mob coming here to serve as bouncers of a number of centers, not as MPs.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0034par0274	You attacked me!
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0033par0275	Last week at the General Assembly, six or seven of our MPs were subject to a group of 100-150 people, then one day at the Constitutional Commission to move the same tension to the meeting grounds, and yesterday, as a woman's MP was threatened first, and then a series of images that did not fit the Parliament daily. However, these attacks and lynchings are conscious and openly reveal themselves in statements made by Prime Minister Davutoglu today. An understanding describing the images that appeared in the Constitutional Commission yesterday as epic written by the AKP Group also reveals that it is, in fact, very planned and consciously, determined to move this violence into the parliament environment. We, first of all, have condemned this idea of aggression and lynching here once again, to pledge allegiance to opposition parties in accordance with the will of the people, regardless of the size of the attack and the heat.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0035par0278	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0033par0279	Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to express that we will never, no matter the cost, take a single step back from these attacks that aim to silence us. On the other hand, today is a very important day for the Miraç Kandili, the Islamic world. We wish that the entire Islamic world would bring peace, peace, and justice to our country, the entire world of mankind. Again, today is World Press Freedom Day. Turkey is still 151st among 180 countries in terms of freedom of the press, still 33 journalists in prisons. Twenty-two of these 33 are reporters from a free press tradition. In the blockades alone, in the last few months, the number of journalists detained and arrested is 9. This painting doesn't suit Turkey, the AKP government... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... I'd like to say that he should remove his custody of freedom of the press as soon as possible, thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0036par0285	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0037par0288	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, today is World Press Freedom Day. However, we have to regret to express that according to data from the Organization of Journalists Without Borders, according to other data, Turkey's international report card on press freedom is getting a little worse every day. It is a shame for Turkey that in 2002, Turkey, before AKP, was the 58th place in press freedom, while in 180 countries, we fell to the 156th position as of 2016. I believe the respected members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly feel the same way. The government should know that if the press isn't free in a country, there's no way to talk about democracy, let alone forward in that country. Gene, the government must know that democracy is a reaction and a protest regime. The application of a government that prevents the use of reactions and protest rights, which prevents news from being used, is incompatible with democracy, bringing it a political adjective, which, by the way, is called dictatorship. It is of course important to come with the nation's vote, it is the people's will, it is ours to do so, but I have come with the nation's vote. It is not possible for this despotence, this tyranny, this right to be carried in Turkey any more. Mr. President, on the other hand, today is a blessed day for the entire Muslim world, a precious day for the Islamic world. The Republican People's Party, as the Grand National Assembly Group of Turkey...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0038par0292	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0037par0293	...and congratulations to the Miraç Kandili, of the entire Islamic world. We hope and pray that Miraç Kandili's brother fight will finally be found, that peace, peace, and security will be the foundation of the Islamic geography, and peace for all mankind. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0038par0296	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0039par0299	Mr. President, thank you. I regret the assessment Mr. Bauken made and strongly reject it. In the same context, it is possible to do the exact opposite of his speech for the HDP Group; it is possible to make a similar assessment of the violence carried out in the field by putting any assessment of violence against Parliament into place, but I will not do it. We're all responsible for the Parliament working according to its own rules, of course it's the burden of power in the first place, and we're paying maximum attention to that, both in the General Assembly and in the commissions. But unfortunately, I'm a one-to-one witness to the incidents in the Commission regarding immunity, where I was the first signator. I see how things work out. Unfortunately, after the recess, until then, in the Commission, where there were again HDP MPs, AK PARTI (AK) MPs, and a negotiating ground, my observation was that HDP MPs raised tension and were allowed to emerge.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0040par0302	Wednesday... come Wednesday.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0039par0303	There will be no blame on our part for the commission's conduct in accordance with its rules. I think we're dealing with a mind that we're trying to come up with a strategy by creating some kind of political tension.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0040par0304	It's like Wednesday!
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0039par0305	At the very least, there have been painful incidents in this past Parliament, we know, there have been commissions; we will all work together on the future, and we will all continue to negotiate and talk together for the common future of this country.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0041par0307	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0039par0308	Again, it is our obligation that, in doing all of this, absolutely nonviolent, people speak freely of their ideas, to establish the basis for legal and ethical negotiations. We'll take care of it, hopefully other friends will pay attention, that's our wish. So, with a request for such Parliamentary work and a call for sensitivity in that direction, I conclude this issue. On the other hand, Miraç Kandili, I celebrate the myth of our nation and of the Islamic world. Basically, what the Mirac tells us is that there's a line between two infinitesimals, a moral education in our vices and virtues. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to make an effort to establish an interconnected world, which is exactly what we should say louder on a day like this, and I think we should see all these issues we're discussing in this context, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0042par0314	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0043par0315	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0042par0316	Mr. Bauken, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0043par0317	During his speech, Mr. Bostanci stated that we were consciously raising tension because of the immunity debate and that we were moving the environment of terror and violence out onto the floor of the House, and he made public taunting.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0042par0318	Here you go, Mr. Bauken. [[Applause from HDP rows]] I promise you for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0043par0323	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. Bostancı, you know very well that the issue is not just the attacks against HDP. And you know perfectly well there's no issue with immunity. There was no discussion of immunity here last Wednesday night. 150-200 MPs for 6-7 MPs attempted lynching, while on the agenda of this Assembly, there was no immunity at the General Assembly. If you recall, an attack on CHP Bolu MP was launched on the stand again during the same day. A few days ago, an attack was carried out before the CHP MP was allowed to finish his speech on the stand. You know all this very well. We've been warning you for months to take the necessary precautions. At our last meeting with the Speaker, the three political parties, the opposition party's group's deputy leaders expressed concern and concern about this, pointing out what could have happened in the past regarding the events of this Assembly General Assembly, but instead of being persistently cautious about them, instead of making the slightest effort to break this lynching and attack wave, you are in a position and understanding that legitimizes them just as it is today. I swear to God, you can go on like this. If there are any serious incidents that none of us approve of in this House General Assembly, each of us will regret. I hope you'll give up the search for legitimization, and I hope you'll take the necessary measures to put an end to these climates that don't suit the Parliament, especially as vice presidents of the ruling party. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0044par0329	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0045par0333	Mr. President, we are not on the side of any illegal procedure, including walking to the stand, including interfering with the conversation.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0046par0334	Then you'll have to correct that list.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0047par0335	You've been doing it for five years, what else?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0045par0336	In Parliament tradition, we don't use words, we don't use words, we do it from time to time, all groups do it, but we don't actually approve of intervention in any way, we don't accept it. We all discussed the unfortunate incident Wednesday night before the meeting at the Constitutional Commission, and we expressed our regrets. In the event of that day, yes, our friends had taken precautions here, so there wouldn't be any actual circumstances, but there are these kinds of riots from time to time, and while the riots are happening, it's completely wrong to consider it as an attack by an entire AK PARTI group, there's MPs looking for it, there's conflict...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0048par0338	The photos are there.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0045par0339	After all, these are not the events we want. Parliament has its way of working. Thus, instead of using an exaggerated language to evaluate the past, it is appropriate to speak with the idea of a future that will ensure that none of this will ever happen. I say we all fulfill our obligations regarding the future, the law, the moral working environment. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0049par0341	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on Tuesday/5/2016 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. On 3 May 2016, the motion by Diyarbakır MP Deputy Chair Çağlar Demirel and Diyarbakır MP Chair İdris Bauken (in 1892 rows) for the opening of a general meeting of our citizens' lives and property security in the border provinces, particularly under the threat of serious threat to Turkey's Grand National Assembly, has been suggested by the following motions to be taken ahead of the General Assembly's information. I will make a pledge to four members of parliament in favor of the People's Democratic Party Group proposal and against it. In his favor, the first speaker is Mahmut Toğrul, Gaziantep MP. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0050par0359	Thank you. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, recently, the government's source to the Church is unclear, but its perpetrators are actually dropping rockets at the fold. Unfortunately, the government doesn't want to identify who fired these rockets. All of them, including Efkan Ala's Home Secretary, say that they have pellected their language and rockets thrown from the other side of the border. I mean, three apples fell from the sky. They describe it like this. But it's obvious who's firing these rockets, who's firing them. Here, as the Prime Minister once said, angry children throw away. They don't even say that. ISIS militants launch rockets at our province every day. Since January 18th, the number of rockets launched into the Church has been 57. Dear friends, 20 of our citizens have lost their lives, 71 of our citizens have been injured. But, of course, our government is developing very important measures, and not to mention these measures. For example, Mr. Ibrahim Kalin says they may have fallen by mistake. Does the Governor fall behind? Governor Newton is showing mercy: these rockets -- they're being reported -- of course they're going to fall. Of course, sir, we've only just learned that there is a force of gravity after the 1600s! Yes, Newton had taught him mercy. If the apple hadn't fallen, perhaps today the governor of the Church would have found gravity from the rocket crash, taking the Nobel Prize.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0051par0363	It's the invention of gravity.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0050par0364	Dear friends, precautions are also being taken. For example, the governor of the Church says that he could fall on us. We take ablution every day and go out. It's a very important precaution. More than that, he says: don't make noise, don't make noise. Find a hole, get in there, reduce the target. It's very important, of course. AFAD's making pamphlets for this, and they're making pamphlets for these suggestionaries, dear friends. Now, where would ISIS militants breathe if it weren't for this border zone between Church and Karkamish? Look at the map, the only door to the area in ISIS's hand is through Kilis and Karkamis, between Azez and Cerablus, and we have said that this region has become an active border crossing line, a logistical support line, and we're still saying it, but it's clear that the necessary measures are not being taken. If necessary measures are taken and this place closes, ISIS will have no room to breathe. But, dear friends, all the world's gangs are coming, using this line, using the Gaziantep-Kilis line to join the Syrian ranks, where AKP is being fought in accordance with the policies it wants to do in Syria, and they're going back into the country. Yes, for example, in the days before that, in Turkey, unions, workers, workers, workers will cry out in Ankara, they will choose that day. However, dear friends, the democrat of Turkey, the enlightened youths, who were created in Rojava, Kobani, go to the border to be united with the young, and then explode in Suruç. And last chosen on May 1st, dear friends, on May 1st in Gaziantep, unfortunately, there is a bomb attack on the police. It's not just these, but I want to stay on this last example. Look, there's allegedly some information coming in from the U.S. State Department to our State Department a day earlier. The location is stated, over there, there will be about this much ton of bombs. Intel is coming. The Gaziantep property managers are holding a meeting that night around eleven or twelve o'clock, and they're supposed to be taking precautions at this meeting, but on May 1st, unfortunately, the place is not meant to be able to stop that bomb from being detonated there, and two policemen are losing their lives, and 23 of our citizens are injured, including 18° police officers. Dear friends, there is one more important job our government has done. After each bombing, DAİŞ, ISIS gang, if this gang of rapists has done it, it is certain that the broadcast ban is imposed and the police sharing the bombing moment are suspended on social media. Again, although we have repeatedly said that this area line has been transformed into logistical support, that ISIS used it as a passing inn, although we have stated that there are hundreds of ISIS cells sleeping in Antwerp... a police officer confirms us, dear friends, says there is a building in the District of Gaziantep Akyol. They used it as a hospital for ISIS militants. I even kept watch in front of that building. • Photos of the building have been shared, dear friends. And the work of the AKP has been revealed, in fact, on many occasions, with the ISIS militants, with the DAİSİSİSK. But you have to understand the reason for this policy. This policy, of course, is the result of AKP's foreign policy against Syria and especially Rojava. They surrendered to it. Anti-Kurdish policy can be in the sack with anyone to prevent Kurds from taking a status in Rojava. Because the work that's done, we understand it from the process, we understand it from the president's statement. It says: "We, in northern Iraq, will not allow one to end here, as in the Iraqi Kurdistan." What do they do with it? They're trading, $12 billion. More importantly, dear friends, our trade with Syria is growing. Our exports are increasing in the region of our Syrian border, especially in ISIS. Who are we exporting to, dear friends? Are we doing it with Syria, with YPG, with YPJ, or are we doing it with Ahrarel-Sham, El Nusra, ISIS? ISIS is in control of this border. These aren't the red lines for us, but the YPG, the YPJ, the Rojava area, which didn't throw us a single pebble, is a red line for us. The AKP government was never allowed to end one there, not even a pebble was thrown, and that is the red line. ISIS may be our border neighbor, they may have set up slave markets in Gaziantep to sell our women, or they may have grown up in AFAD camps and fought in Syria, it's not a problem, but the Kurds who didn't throw a pebble at us are a very important red line for us. So when I say for us, for those who run the country, the President, the Prime Minister and the Government... Dear friends, I would like to say in particular that there are two reasons for these attacks. First of all, we've been saying this since long ago, Turkey is moving fast towards Pakistan, Gaziantep, the Church region is moving towards Peshawarisation. First of all, the crow you feed turns around, gouges out your eyes, comes back to you like a boomerang. But another one, which really makes us wonder why anti-AKP policies should be protested, especially in those days, when the government should be blown up, these are good boys, these are angry kids. Here he throws it by mistake. The way he says it... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...I'll send 4-5 people there, I'll launch 7-8 missiles from there, and I'll make an excuse for it, it's no big deal. It makes us think that AKP has made this matter a domestic policy tool. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0052par0375	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. Against the proposal, Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP. Here you are, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0053par0379	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, there is a request for a motion in accordance with the relevant articles of the Constitution and the Civil Code, especially in the districts of the border, where the security of lives and property is seriously threatened. I have been promised to present the views of the National Movement Party on this matter, and I salute the grand delegation. Earlier, we visited the Church with instructions from Mr. President. We've also submitted a research motion for that purpose. ▪ Are there really cell homes sleeping in the center of the church? What measures are being taken? Why are our intelligence and security units weak? What would have happened to us if more efficient guided missiles, chemical warheads, and not Katyusha missiles? Why is the ISIS terrorist group firing missiles at the Church? I wonder if there's a reason for that. After the missiles were launched, they retaliated against whom? What is the goal of reaching the church with these bombs? Why is this government insensitive to this issue? Why doesn't he bring it up on international platforms? Why is the church especially exposed to bombs when there are many settlements within 900km of Syria? Why doesn't the missile shield system exist? When the missiles fall, the siren doesn't ring. This is a part of the questions that the citizens are asking us. Now, of course, the boundaries are not just today's work, but the boundaries are the work of the solution process. It's not something that came out today. That's what we live for if we're in trouble today. Now, I've looked, there's no PYD in the motion, there's no PKK. Yalçın Akdoğan already wanted the solution process, he's not around. I don't know, Mr. Secretary, are you discussing these matters there? The government has nothing to do with this. He's sitting there during the solution process, and he's saying different things, Mr. Akdoğan. Mr. President claimed the job and said there was no such thing. People believed it, and things got a little different. You're looking at this, the government isn't responding. It's about exports. Now, there are allegations. According to the reports of missiles, the state of conscious desperation for the safety of the barbaric gangs and the public is getting stronger, he says. I wonder what the government thinks of that. There's no staff here who can answer from the government. Support the PYD. There's a phrase like "PYD." Now, the Republic of Turkey must not take this lightly. It started with the solution process, and it came. Now, wherever you look, policies in the region have troubled Turkey. Both your policy outside the country has troubled you, and the policies you call infamy have troubled you. The problem doesn't just come from the border. The Armed Forces of the Republic of Turkey, the police, look what they're doing to keep the peace of the country there. Now, no one has the right to trouble the Republic of Turkey. Now, it's called local dynamics. Local dynamics, PYD, PKK... now, they need to be looked at. There's a risk of conflict in the church. Look, Kilis is miserable, the missile hits every day. The citizens of this province are terrified. It is the only province in the region without Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). The church has become an open target for terrorist organizations. The migrations started here. No one has safety. Local citizens are afraid to send their children to school, to participate in social life with confidence. Our vice president, who was in charge of women and family because of the growing problems of the church, went there, and then we went there with our representatives, Kahramanmarash and Hatay. It's a disaster here... it's raining bombs. The government is insensitive. Social life is dying. Families are miserable, it's not safe to live in houses. Hospitals don't respond to demands and needs. The shopkeeper is crying out for blood; elsewhere, he wants to postpone taxes, social security premiums and other payments, as in other areas. The height of the Syrian population also puts dynamite in the social peace of the church. The National Movement Party sided with the Church and our brothers from the Church, and stood by our citizens in that area. Now no one should expect us to turn our backs on the Church like the AKP. It is the heart of the Turkish nation and the heart of the Turkish nation. Now, we'd like Mr. Merkel to go with Mr. Merkel to the church when the Prime Minister gets there. Why didn't he leave? If only he'd been at the edge of the border or with the camps on the other side. These are very important issues. Mr. Chief of Staff went to the church, and the Undersecretary of MIT went; and whatever the Minister of Defence was doing, he went after them, and went away, and I don't know why he was late. The Prime Minister thinks the rockets were deliberately launched. They're welcoming the German Prime Minister there, and I think they think it's dangerous to go to the border, and we're going to put them on the agenda of the Council of Ministers. He didn't have access to the Council of Ministers until then. As the MHP, we really expect the government to meet its government policies and its citizens' demands from Parliament immediately. Look, Turkey shouldn't abandon the parameters of its national ranks to the initiative of other countries. Why did we give the thesis here? What are you doing with your thesis? Why did we give it to him? I've voted, I'll scream. Now, the Republic of Turkey is a sovereign state. A national, unitary, and powerful state is obliged to personally appoint its political savings and strategies to protect its borders, no one's need for its guidance and support. Why did you come here and ask for this? Isn't that right, Mr. Secretary? Now, the Turkish nation, if it has its own agenda -- today, our Mr. President said it in the morning -- has the strength and experience to sew its own up, cut off its own umbilical cord. The government that rules the country is helpless. The Minister has nothing to do with this. Their statements are not satisfactory after they have been discussed in the Council of Ministers. Where it comes from, how it comes, if the Republic of Turkey can't identify them, if it doesn't know who they are, there's trouble here. Now, I want to make it very clear that if the borders in this area are in trouble, if security is in trouble, there is a great deal of importance here, especially to the mixing of the Church, to the Turkish city. That's one. Second: What was the result of the solution process? Today in the southeast, you're under those ditchs. Who did all this, where was the government, where was the intel, what was he doing, who was responsible for all the dead children? The government has to answer that. There are no ministers here to answer that, I'm afraid. These things need to be explained very clearly, they need to be explained. But I say this from here, I cry: Come, you men, clean up the terror organizations on both sides of the border, the National Movement Party, behind the government to the end. Promise me from this stand. It's not nationalism to give F keyboards to lawmakers. Solve this matter. I give my regards to the High Council, thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0054par0395	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. In favour of the proposal, Ozturk Yilmaz, Ardahan MP... [[Applause from CHP rows]] Come in, Mr. Yilmaz, your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0055par0399	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. As for our Church, the heart would like to be given a comprehensive explanation and evaluation. Because when we look at the attacks since January 18th, these attacks continue. The number of our dead people is increasing, the number of the wounded is increasing, and the migration from the city begins. Schools aren't vacations, but students don't go to schools. The teachers are getting reports. There's a panic in the city. It's all happening with rocket launches and people's lives. But we see no serious measures are being taken. Look, the 4-point plan for the Church has been announced by the government. When? April 25th. The additional military measures will be taken, the additional drones will be observed, economic measures will be taken; these damages will be removed from the merchant, the shopkeeper, the damaged; the social support programme will be provided, additional measures will be taken in the field of health; additional doctors, armored ambulances will go into service in the church. At that time, the number of our citizens who lost their lives there was 17, and our wounded were 61, and those who lost their lives now went up to 21, and the wounded went up to 71. There's a serious attack on our city. This attack is coming from outside. Of course, it's obvious who threw these rockets, and it's obvious who that is. If you ask a three-year-old who walks the street in Turkey, if his mind is clear, he'll tell you who did it. It's the ISIS terrorist organization that did this, so let's know for a fact. Let's call it that. Turkey cannot detect an additional threat from ISIS because it has named it, and when it does not name it, it continues because identifying something brings a measure. I'm afraid we don't see the government taking proper precautions. We haven't seen what kind of work is being done on this subject, but we haven't seen it, except for the statement of the Council of Ministers. Now, why is this happening? Why did it come to this? Why did a city of Turkey suddenly become the target of such attacks, a city that hosted so many refugees, so selfless? It all started with the Arab Spring, and the Syrian policy was wrong. Turkey would have been leader of the Middle East after March 2011, leading all regime changes from North Africa to the Middle East, and this world's governments would have rewarded Turkey for that kind of talent. Everything collapsed; Turkey's plan collapsed in Libya, Egypt collapsed in Egypt, and Syria collapsed. Not only did it collapse in these countries, our fight with foreign actors increased, tension with Russia was caused by Syria. We disagreed with the United States, rather because of Syria, and we disagreed with regional actors. When we looked roughly ten years ago, there were more states in the Middle East than there were terrorist organizations; there were governments, dictators, but there was a state, there was a central authority. Today, the number of terrorist organizations has exceeded the states, and no one knows how many terrorist organizations there are in Syria alone, and we don't even know the number. For God's sake, would any of them be friends with Turkey? Can you cooperate with these? I also want to say that there's something about the rules of engagement. Yeah, brother, the rules of engagement are applied against a government that violates your airspace, abuses your land. It's not an engagement to a terrorist organization, you'll destroy it. What are you talking about? Destroy it if you have to. Of course, diplomatic terminology is a little sensitive, I'm afraid. A second issue: Why do we respond to Syria with only obuses? Because Russia has planes in the airspace, we can't cross the border. Well, aren't we in the coalition? Why do US and other countries in the coalition not hit those targets? I'll tell you something even more interesting -- come on, they're not hitting -- we can't get into Syria because Russia controls the airspace. And who controls the Mosul airspace? Why don't we shoot it? Why don't we go into Mosul airspace and hit those targets?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0056par0407	Why do you think we don't?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0055par0408	We've got to hit it.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0056par0409	Tell me, why don't we shoot him? Why don't we shoot him, why?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0055par0410	We have to shoot because Turkey is stronger than ISIS.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0056par0411	Why don't we shoot him?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0055par0412	Turkey can shoot them down any time we want.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0056par0413	Look, you've been a consul, tell us why we don't hit.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0055par0414	I'll tell you, because you don't want to shoot, so you don't. You want the truth!
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0056par0416	Tell me, tell me, tell me.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0055par0417	I'll tell you everything. Go out and I'll discuss everything with you. Don't make me talk, please, and don't ruin my state manners.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0056par0418	Mr. Consul, tell me exactly.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0055par0419	Turkey must take serious measures on this issue, and Turkey must always take real measures on this issue. Our national security is above all else. Our country's security comes above all else. What do we do about this -- it's happening today to the Church, it's going to be Gaziantep tomorrow, it's going to be another province another day? We're going to move all the populations because all of this is a terrorist organization? We must take precautions, the government must take clear measures. He's declared ISIS as a terrorist organization, and he has to do what he needs to do in all the cities. Two...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0056par0421	You're talking nonsense, you're reciting it.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0055par0422	Brother, if you have a promise, come talk to me here, don't talk to me from there.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0056par0423	If you love God, you talk empty.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0055par0424	If there's a problem with terrorist organizations, if there's a problem with them, if there's a problem with them, I'll give them an answer.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0056par0425	Talk to information, you're showing off. And you were a consul in Mosul.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0055par0426	Another thing I understand about AKP policy is that if we can't pass through and do an intervention in Syria, we need to sit down and think about it. These coalition planes get up from Incirlik, they store all their logistical materials in Incirlik, all of them in Incirlik. We ask them, do we demand them, so they don't hit it? It's obvious where ISIS came from, where he threw rockets, and where he threw them. They even google it, it's all clear. They throw it out of the bab, they throw it out of those border towns, the range of the incoming rockets is clear. Why don't we take precautions? Friends, another issue: Now, we need to know something regionally; we are entering a period in which radical terrorist organizations threaten Turkey, unfortunately, next semester. Our neighbors are boiling, the geography is turbulent, the borders are changing. And yet we're still talking. I personally don't see it as a policy. Is there anything wrong with what I said?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0057par0428	It's all wrong.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0058par0429	No politics when you say it.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0055par0430	Shouldn't we take precautions? Do you want the residents of the church to remain seated, and the rockets to continue to launch?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0058par0431	There's populism when you say it; no politics, no diplomacy.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0059par0432	Talk, talk. Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0058par0433	Look, what you're saying is no politics, no diplomacy, populism.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0060par0434	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0061par0435	In other words, Turkey needs to take steps, especially on two regional issues: First, the threat of ISIS is increasing in the coming period, increasing its threats to Turkey as ISIS is stuck. Tomorrow, perhaps, the operation will take place on Menbic. And when that happens, we have to deal with it with a bigger threat, a bigger strategy. Secondly, the threat is becoming very high in Iraq as well. As ISIS is stuck, the threat to Turkey is increasing as it gets stuck in Iraq. Turkey, ISIS, unfortunately wants to see an employee as a logistical; we shouldn't allow it. And in the international community, we need to make diplomatic attempts to bring in incoming, ejected rockets, people who have lost their lives, and we need to make the most of it. Why are these being thrown into Turkey? What is it? If there's anything else we don't know, we'd like to know as the opposition. With such a threat every day in Turkey, we don't want to wake up in person; no one wants to, people don't want to be nervous. Is there an initiative Turkey has made in the international community, for example, about ISIS terrorism? Has Turkey ever made an attempt on ISIS terrorism against the Church? Has the coalition asked their partners for official help in this matter? Has a decision been made on what kind of joint action will take place in the next period? These aren't being done. Unfortunately, we see a new attack every day in the newspapers. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0062par0440	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Against the proposal, Reþit Polat, the Church MP will speak. Here you go, Mr. Polat. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0063par0445	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Both of our speakers have been deliberating at the point where this DEAS terrorist organization is haunting Turkey, where Turkey is weak against them. I'll tell you as a representative of the Church in the first place, and then we'll decide together what Turkey should do, what the state and the government should do. First, at our Mountain Border Station on the border of Kilis Elbeyli, the DEAM militants killed one of our soldiers. In response to him, immediately our soldiers intervened and killed the DEAN militant.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0064par0448	Militan or terrorist?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0063par0449	Terrorist. That day, as I was in my knowledge, I immediately arrived at Elbeyli, and followed the course of the incident, and three or four cars from the other side of the street, full of terrorists... and as they marched to our border, our artillery batteries responded. The same incident took place at the Martyr Mehmet Police Station, and again, we showed the same harsh attitude against it. Since then, we've been hitting our cannons, our planes, our coalition forces' planes, the DEAS terrorists' attacks on this nation, the shots fired at the border stations, the mortars and the rockets that have come to our city. That's the point of origin. Now, are we going to ignore a terrorist organization, a terrorist organization that's trying to destroy our land? Of course we'll do the necessary intervention. Look, as a result of this rocket attack starting on January 18th, 21 of our citizens were killed, around 70 of our citizens were injured, and the public suffered a great deal of anxiety.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0065par0453	For many years, they have used our borders, waving their arms, and have crossed over to Azez, and now you say so. Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0063par0454	Well, I'm asking my friends here now: this is the government who first saw the DEAS as a terrorist organization and said it.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0065par0455	They just walked away. Not by hiding. Go and see.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0063par0456	DEAC is a terrorist organization. This is the absolute truth. And with all the shooting, nothing happened to them? Nearly 1,000 DEA terrorists have been killed as a result of the shootings of planes and bus cannons. I'll explain the general course of action to you in this way. Of course, it's a lot of polymics, you know, when you're at work, when you're down, don't come out without an absorption... or something. I think we should put all this aside.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0066par0459	It's not polemic...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0063par0460	If it was my time, I'd tell you whether they're polemic or not, but I need to get to some stuff. Instead of dealing with these polemics, how do we get this DEA terrorist organization out of this country right now, we need to do his account together?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0067par0462	You're going to support the research motion?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0063par0463	Look, I've heard the latest -- I've heard -- friends -- from government officials who have never been told -- is this coming from the DEASI positions, coming or going, falling at random? After the meeting of the Council of Ministers on April 25th, I read to you the exact text that Mr. Numan Survivmiş explained; look, we saw where it was thrown out, we said who threw it: 46 rockets have been fired since January 18th, and these shots have been thrown out of the position of DEAS elements. Oh, so we accept the DEA, but you insist: you don't speak, you don't speak, you don't say, you don't admit it's a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0068par0464	Has the hospital been established or not?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0063par0465	So, does our government stand empty? After the last reinforcements were deployed there... and I'll explain to you that these reinforcements are armed forces: we have obuses, we have tank troops, we have special operations. Right now, the Sakarya RPG Systems are being brought in, and a month later, hopefully, we'll have what we call guided rocket launchers. We're always hitting the D.E.A. positions.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0068par0466	If it lasts a month, it's the Church.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0063par0467	But for this nation's unity and resurrection, let's do a black operation immediately and get that terrorist organization out of there. Of course, that option is being discussed. As it is known, these options are not for a moment, but for a strategy, for military experts to decide. We can decide as Parliament, that's different, but even in Operation Peace in Cyprus, the operation took place four or five years later. Of course, we don't want it to take this long. We demand that this terrorist organization -- of course, in the southeast and east -- get the hell out of this land as well as the PKK terrorist organization. Now, our Council of Ministers announced economic measures related to the Church on April 25th, particularly security measures. Both the losses of our tradesman and trader support the Church in terms of social support programmes, in health care, at the point of credit opportunities. Look, we've been hosting 130,000 brothers for about five years, and I'm afraid you haven't come to the church and taken care of these beautiful people, these peaceful people. When a missile came in, you all started screaming all over the place. Right now, the Church is nervous, of course nervous. The rockets are coming to our province. It's time for the union, time for the draw. If this nation maintains unity and unity and responds not only to the DEA, but to the PKK or to the MLKP, believe that these evil centers, these dark clouds, will disappear over this country.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0069par0471	You reap what you sow.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0063par0472	HDP Group (HDP) has proposed that these incidents be investigated, added to them, saying: "You should have added the explosions of Ankara, Suruç explosions. If we had looked together, we should have seen them all together.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0070par0473	The PYD, the YPG...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0063par0474	If you added PYD, let's look into it together.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0071par0475	Are you taking care of ISIS?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0063par0476	Look, guys, if we're going to fight terror groups together, we're going to fight them together, we're not going to separate them. For us, the DEA is a terrorist organization, the PKK is a terrorist organization, and the NYD is a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0072par0478	Since when is this a terrorist organization? When it suits you, you embrace a terrorist organization when it doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0063par0479	Lastly, look, I'll make a quick statement about this buffer zone: Mr. President, for four years now, these events have begun to stress the importance of the buffer region, but there is no support from the United Nations in this regard. If this had been created four years ago, none of these problems would have happened by now. So, let's all take care of this idea together.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0073par0480	Why it's you, you!
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0063par0481	Let's get this terror out of this land together. No enemy can enter a nation without entering; As the crowd hits, the heart can't even digest the ball.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0074par0485	It's not about poetry, it's not about poetry!
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0063par0486	Which is why I believe that a suggestion you're making will not bring good to my own country, and I refuse to accept your offer. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0075par0489	Thank you, Mr. Polat.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0076par0490	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0075par0491	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0076par0492	Mr. President, in the speech of the speaker, we've both submitted this motion...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0077par0493	It's against you! He's gonna talk about it, what's he gonna do?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0078par0494	He's already talking against you. What's he gonna say?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0076par0495	...that we've also created a polemic, using the name of our party to deflect the issue from its purpose.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0078par0496	It's a general criticism, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0076par0497	Such an important issue, he says, has been deflected from his purpose by expressing to the Church that we do not care about a matter where rockets fall every day, where our people are slaughtered and injured. Because of the bullying, I demand a say in 69, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0078par0499	He's made a promise against you, Mr. President, and he speaks against you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0079par0500	Mr. Demirel, I've listened to Mr. Polat. Mr. Polat has voiced criticism of his own group. I have not come across a statement that can cause bullying, or that will refer to you in any way other than what you have expressed.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0080par0502	President, direct to our group...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0079par0503	Let's do this, and maybe I missed it, and I'm gonna get the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0080par0504	Yes, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0079par0505	If there's anything to be said, I'll consider your request.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0080par0506	The president made a statement to our group that he had deflected the issue by expressing the HDP (HDP) as well. It's an open taunt.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0079par0507	Mr. Ironel, I understand, you may be right. I'll get the reports, I'll evaluate your request.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0080par0508	I mean, it's beyond criticism. There's been a direct assault on our group, that's why. I mean, I took notes. The Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) led this matter astray from its purpose. We twisted it. It's not a normal criticism that we bring up such an important issue, it's a taunt, it's a taunting of our group.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0079par0509	Mr. Demirel, if you have a right to be bullied, I'll give you that right, no doubt. I'll take a quick look at the records, sir. I'll evaluate your request.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0080par0510	There will be a vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0079par0511	And then...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0080par0512	His records...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0079par0513	No, no, it could be, there's a vote, and I'll promise you, sir, if there's bullying in the next part of the merger. A vote doesn't stop you from promising.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0081par0514	The temperature of the matter will be lost, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0079par0515	People's Democratic Party Group... III. (PHP 4 = 4.0.6, PHP 4)
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0082par0518	Request roll call.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit01spe0079par0519	Okay. I will submit the People's Democratic Party Group proposal to your votes. There's a request for a roll call before the vote. So first, I'm going to identify the presence of the MPs who have requested roll call, and then I'm going to do the roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Acar Başaran, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Encu, Mr. Konca, Mr. Toğrul, Mr. Adıyaman, Mr. Zeydan, Mr. Yiğitalp, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Erdoğmü, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Atash, Mr. Aceklı, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Pir, Mr. Leo, Mr. Firat, Mr. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0079par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The roll call before the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal voted was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly (2/733) original no. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, I would like to ask that our proposal be taken into consideration by the General Assembly. There are MPs demanding a statement about the motion, and I'll give them my word. Yakup Akkaya, İstanbul MP as the bidder. Here you go, Mr. Akkaya.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0083par0024	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our Law Proposal (2/733) ranking. First of all, I salute you all. First of all, our Izmir MP, our comrade, Mr. Tuncay, says he must get well soon, and I wish him to be with us. It's also World Press Freedom Day, and we've failed again, unfortunately. Our country doesn't deserve this painting. This painting is the work of those who can't swallow this democracy in this beautiful country. Of course, we, the Republican People's Party, will continue to work for freedom of the press in Turkey. Dear MPs, today also Miraç Kandili. I congratulate you all on the Mirach Kandili. Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid the problems in working life don't end. Here yesterday, Mr. Labour Minister kindly explained that his work life was a bed of roses, that no one had a problem. I wondered for a moment if Mr. Minister was talking about Turkey. Mr. Secretary, without even linking the 1980 coup to May 1st, 1977 has explained how well Business Health and Safety Law is good on this bench, leaving 17,000 workers killed in 14 years, instead of the 4857th Labor Law, which aims to protect the employer rather than protect the worker. When I was listening to the speech, I really, I mean, that's politics. ▪ I have seen the understanding of how all negativeities can be reversed in a clean language, and how citizens can be persuaded. The minister's rebuttal speech was essentially a reflection of AKP's 14-year sense of politics. In fact, it was also a sign of how we, the Republican People's Party, were incapable of twisting events. We said, "Well, we'll keep telling the people the truth from these platforms." Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as shown in our proposal, our proposal is to deliver a right. Our officers were denied the right to receive pension bonuses for over 30 years because there was a deadline. On December 25, 2014, the Constitutional Court ruled out this injustice and published it in the Official Gazette. However, the applications of our pensioners to the Social Security Agency for the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision were suspended and not implemented on the grounds that the Constitutional Court's decisions would not be reversed. So our officers had to go to court to get their rights. The prosecutor has made hundreds of decisions regarding the pensioners. Dear lawmakers, I ask the Minister of Labor once again: When there are such judicial decisions, there is such a decision the Constitutional Court has made to pensioners in 2014, why haven't you made a law here to rectify this injustice for two years, and why don't you arrange it? How do you feel about them waiting at the courthouse to get the rights to our pensioners? Dear lawmakers, isn't it incumbent on ruling to make a new legal arrangement in place of the law, which has been invalidated because of its violation of the Constitution? In accordance with the principle of equality in the eyes of the law and as part of being a social law state, these bonuses must also be paid by our officers who have retired before the date and received a missing bonus, and the law commands that. The Supreme Court has ruled on this. In this way, a right has been granted, and what needs to be done is for the House to give it to our pensioners. Come on, don't pass this up just because he's having a major opposition party here. Support our officers' legal proposal to be given here as lawful bonuses as the mother of our officers, who have served this country for more than thirty years, and we will eliminate their problems. I thank you all once again, and give you my love and respect. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0084par0035	Thank you, Mr. Akkaya. The second speaker of the motion is Ünal Demirtaş, Zonguldak MP. Here you are, Mr. Demirtaş.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0085par0039	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, I congratulate the Miraç Kandili, of the entire Islamic world. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge in favour of the law offered to pay pension bonuses for pensioners or heirs who have retired before 7/1/2015, but have not benefited from their pensions for more than 30 years. Dear lawmakers, retired officers, were facing a 30-year limit in taking advantage of the pension, no matter how long they worked until 2014, when the Constitutional Court ruled. This was caused by Article 89/4 of the Retirement Chest Law. According to this article, more than 30 practical years of service were ignored in the account of the pension bonus, which was to be given according to the above jokes. And therefore, for example, a government official who worked for 40 years, not over 40 years, but over 30 years, was receiving a pension -- how wrong, how unfair, how unfair, and how unlawful -- is that, lawmakers? You're going to employ a civil servant for 40 years and you're going to give him a pension over 30 years, you're going to give him a ten-year right to a civil servant; is that acceptable, friends? Of course, it's unacceptable. A civil servant, who has spent his life in his state, served for years, worked for years, and his salary is three cents, if this civil servant is honest, if he's honest, he's got no place to live, not even a house to rest. Shouldn't he at least have a home where he can get comfortable while he's retired? An officer, due to a low salary, with a pension from over 30 years, is in a situation where the prices of the house today are turning into a flying saucer, but he can either buy a henhouse or buy a cabin, dear friends. If a civil servant is an officer of the government, if he is an officer who knows the business, if he's turned the corner while working, that's different. The officers we're talking about here are honest and honest officers, not officers who know their way around the corner while they're working. Therefore, the removal of the officer's right over 30 years was unfair and unlawful. In 2014, the Constitutional Court ruled that the Article 89/4/4 of the Law of the Retirement Chest shall be annulled. The Supreme Court has decided in its cancellation decision, in summary, because of the violation of the principle of equality in the 10th article of the Constitution. So, the Constitutional Court, against the law, has cancelled this unfair application, but is the Social Security Agency paying off officers over 30 years? Here, the lawmakers don't pay. Over 30 years, when an officer asks the SGK for his rights over 30 years, the SGK rejects them. Why is he refusing? The Constitutional Court denies the release of the decision on the grounds that from 7/1/2015, there will be verdicts and results, which means that the Constitutional Court will not back down. What, then, is the second victim of the SGK? He's suing the administrative court for this operation of the SGK. Dear lawmakers, after the Constitutional Court's annulment, all the officers who sued have won these cases. The SEC has faced a lot of work because of these cases. More than that, the case fees and costs, the legal fees on the other side, they always come out of the SGK budget. The problem seems to have been resolved, whether late or not, but there is a loophole because there is no legal arrangement after the Supreme Court's annulment. With this proposal of law, this loophole will be eliminated, and the victims of the officers will be somewhat removed. Therefore, in the event of the adoption of our law proposal to fill this legal void, officers who have worked over 30 years will receive their lawful rights, such as their mother's white milk, without crawling through the gates of the court. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I offer my sincerest love and respect to the entire General Assembly to accept the offer of the law.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0086par0049	Thank you, Mr. Demirtaş. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Under the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and Interior Commission Reports on the Establishment of the Kollik Watch Commission, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Yesterday's merger was held in motion on Article 5 of Article 277, which was considered the main law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. There are two proposals on matter, and I'm going to read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The number 277 is listed in the Fifth Amendment of the Law Charter on the establishment of the Watch Commission, and on the amendment to some Laws. During the five working days that followed the meeting, the announcement of the meeting... In the three working days that follow the meeting... we offer and propose that it be replaced as a subsidiary. Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Hayati Tekin Murat Minister Tanju Özcan Mahmoud Tanal Onursal Haluk Pekşen Uğur Bayraktutan Engin Özkoç Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the declaration from the draft text of the draft statement, which is abstentional in the 5th Article (2) of the Common Law Bill of 277 rows. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Müslüm Doğan Behcet Yıldırım Mizgin Irgat Alican Önlü Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0087par0076	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0086par0077	Government?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0088par0078	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0086par0079	Bitlis MP Mizgin Irgat will talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Irgat.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0089par0082	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, first of all, I congratulate the Miraç Kandili, of the Islamic world. It's also Freedom of the Press Day. I salute and celebrate the days of every journalist who does not hide the truth and performs his profession in all difficult circumstances, and who face all the challenges, and who conducts his profession and pays the price. I made a promise on behalf of my party regarding the 5th article of Bill 277. The commission to set up is the law enforcement commission. As this commission is being established, it is clear that rather than establishing the basic rights and freedom of its own citizen, rather than building the democratic system that should be, this commission, which is the continuation of a series of proposals to be introduced in the process of visa liberalisation and EU integration, is not the answer to Turkey's democracy, the system Turkey needs. When we look at the form of the commission, accountability aside, it's a bill that is based on governance, which strengthens the power of governance over the judiciary, and, in fact, only, like a lot of laws that have been passed in recent times, we've done things, we've set foot in Turkish democracy. It's a bill that is unanswerable. Now, haven't we given the authority of this Parliament to join the arm in the Law on Police Duty and the Law on Peace and Homeland Security in the past days? Didn't we, in fact, give legal rights and authority to the law enforcement force that was involved in countless crimes before? Didn't we tell the law enforcement officers who slaughtered the lives of the children who lost their lives that they were good at being acquitted in court? After that, didn't the Supreme Court approve these unjustly unlawful court decisions? Yehia Menekşe was killed in Cizre, 2008, only because he used his right to protest, and the police who shot him were acquitted, and the Supreme Court approved this acquittal. The 12-year-old Uður Kaymaz was acquitted of the police who killed his father and his father, and the Supreme Court re-approved this acquittal. I can't count here right now, the murders of countless children have been cleared in this country. So, with their wrongs, their crimes, yes, there's a need to say that this country's armband is controlled, oversight and stop, yes, we do, but it's up to the government, it's up to the administration, it's up to the Department of Justice, it's up to the Department of Justice, it's like a man, and there's no need for a commission without the control of his reports. For visa liberalisation, with a positivist approach, in such a painful process, we think that Turkey will not exceed the threshold of democracy at the point of visa liberalisation under the Kollik Watch Commission. With a report card this dirty, we don't think you'll be cleared with a commission. When you are number 2 in the European Court of Human Rights, we believe you will not be exonerated by this commission. On this basis, we believe that such bills, which increase internal bureaucracy, which enable parliament to do unnecessary overtime, will not respond to our country, Turkey, and the sufferings. If this commission is going to prevent these massacres, yes, but it won't; it's just going to watch, it's going to be cleared in court, it's going to get them cleared, and it's going to get them back to the Supreme Court and it's going to-- [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Every day he will end his life by crushing a cop, a child, or a civilian under TOMA. Therefore, this Law enforcement Commission does not respond to our suffering; it does not go beyond a show-of-the-art law. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0090par0092	Thank you, Mr. Irgat. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 277th amendment of the Law Charter on the Establishment of the Watch Commission and the Amendment to Some Laws (5) is part of the 5th Amendment.... During the five working days that followed the meeting, the announcement of the meeting... In the three working days that follow the meeting... we offer and propose that it be replaced as a subsidiary. Uğur Bayraktutan (Artvin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0091par0099	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0090par0100	Government?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0092par0101	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0090par0102	Haluk Pekşen wants to talk about the motion, Congressman of Tripoli. Here you go, Mr. Pekşen.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0093par0105	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I wish our dear congressman, Mr. Tuncay Ozkan, an immediate recovery. That's exactly what this is about, about today's commission. We know that Tuncay Özkan (you know) was poisoned by a DDT vaccine that was given to him in prison. As a matter of fact, Germany is going to treatment for this, but doctors in Germany say that not only DDT but two different radioactive substances were injected into its body. You're confident that your commission, this commission you're setting up, will do no good, and you know it. Why? Because a structure you've been worried about for a long time has been able to master extraordinary schemes to get into the cosmic room and then take the country's most important secrets from that cosmic room and decipher them, and unfortunately, the person who can still carry the Supreme Court's identity in his pocket, and you can't do anything to them; they're still in the Supreme Court, they're still very effective and powerful within the security forces. You guys haven't even been able to fight the top of the iceberg yet. They destroyed the government's most important projects. Where's that National Ship Project you were talking about, the National Plane Project, the Air Defense System Project? None of them. And who brought them down? They were the ones who served directly in law enforcement, and some of them were infiltrated inside the judicial armband, but you couldn't do anything about them because you already carried them into power and into this great power. It's about those names, which are up to 60,000, and I assure you, there's no way that this commission of yours is going to do anything, and there's no way that your government is going to take any further steps. It's very likely that in a very short period of time, you'll be able to bring the agenda of Parliament this constitutional interim clause about immunity, which stands in front of you in such a way that I, as a lawyer, find it useful to warn you once again. You know, the kind of investigations that will take place because of the verbs that were committed until it was published. You can be sure that if 20 of you were taken into the DA's office ten minutes before you went on the air, you'd get a number of preliminaries. I'm warning you about a series of legal issues. Look, the law on personal data will get you, too. The law you passed behind him with a secret investigation and a secret investigator's arrangement will come to you, and none of you are safe in those immunitys. Nowhere in the world would anyone fall into such an important trap. Friends think that world wars are always hot, bombed, blown up, blown up dead bodies, but they're not, the qualities of world wars have changed. Look, Syria had the third most important world war in history, where everyone shared their leverage, and we got a bill. That Middle East, North Africa was taken from us. What was it bought with, what was it bought with? Here are the operations conducted today by those who you call "management watch" and those who are assigned to you. How are you going to supervise those law enforcement agencies? I'm asking, can you control it with this structure? Come on, you've got power, you've got power, can you break their power in the Supreme Court, can you break it in the Court? You can't do anything, you can't take any steps. I'm warning you, this board of law enforcement won't make any sense, it won't go beyond a formal arrangement. Look, you're having a lot of trouble fighting the face of the moonsberg. I wish the Minister of Justice had been here and asked him the questions I needed to ask. You questioned 8.5 million people in the first decade of your power. Only 37 percent of the people you question have been sued. Only 34 per cent of the cases were convicted, so only 13 per cent of the 8.5 million were convicted. You have become a major target for the transformation of Turkey in your rule and have done so. They'll put everything you've done in front of you. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0094par0114	Thank you, Mr. Pekshen. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0095par0116	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0094par0117	Did you ask for a sufficient number of decisions?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0095par0118	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0094par0119	Yes, there's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, so I'm going to call the number of decisions in the motion vote. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... There's a difference of opinion among the clerks as to whether or not there are enough decisions, so I'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. I'm starting the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article is accepted. The votes of the substances in the first section are complete. Members of parliament, in the previous session, Mr. Çağlar Demirel had a request for a statement on the grounds of bullying. I've had the transcripts of the speech of Mr. Reþit Polat. I've studied it. The final sentence of the speech of Mr. Polat is this: for this reason, I believe that a proposal you are making will not bring good to my own country, and I refuse to accept your offer. Mr. Demirel used our proposal in a different way. He deflected it from his purpose. I think it was based on this sentence. Here, Mr. Demirel, on the grounds of bullying, I give you my word for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0096par0131	Mr. Mahmut Toğrul will speak.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0097par0132	I'll do the talking, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0094par0133	Here you go, Mr. Toğrul. Your time is two minutes. Please do not challenge a new taunt.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0098par0138	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've been trying to keep an eye on the orator who came out to see if there's any real precautions for the Church. We brought a lot of criticism. Since then, we've expressed that the border line is a road inn for DAH militants, a logistical support line. He didn't say a word about it. Look, there was a perception in the past that three militants from Sudan would come to the Turkish army and I would go to the other side to fight the ISIS lines. There was enough perception in the world to say: You couldn't change that perception, I'm afraid. Today, the fact remains that there are thousands of ISIS cells in Gaziantep. More importantly, the deputy said we weren't interested in the area. The deputy doesn't know, but in July, I myself went to the Ministry's Border Gate, where I met with the governor and the authorities. I don't think the deputy's following this. Again, people have no lives and property security in the Church. We say, "The deputy advocates the military power Turkey has, we have this, we have this. We go further, we answer with planes." What day did you launch a plane, Congressman, on what day? Did they give you the right to lift it? Can you fly a plane after you've crashed the Russian plane? Right now, in your anti-Kurdish project, there is not a single change in your anti-Rojava policy, and you continue to conduct policy with ISIS, and more importantly, you continue to use ISIS as a tool to plan Syria. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0099par0143	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second chapter covers the 6 to 13th article, including the temporary article 1. I'll meet your demands on chapter two. First on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Ayhan Bilgen, Kars MP. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0100par0153	Mr. President, I'm going to start by celebrating Mirac, but some perceive it as just a miracle, as an extraordinary thing, to go through physical conditions in a city other than a city. However, it is the rise of human values, the virtue of dealing with your society's rotten, polluted, power-worshiping values and rising above it. As in the famous slogan, "There is no salvation, either together or not." You return to your society with morality and you carry the truth of what you face into your own society. With these feelings, I hope, not only with the desire for material development, but also with the rise and rise of truly universal human values. Dear lawmakers, we're talking about setting up a mechanism for law enforcement, but on the other hand, we're judging it with a reading that's so hot, so low on daily violence, so far away from the concept of security, that even if these laws are the best, it's enough to show that they can't do any good for public safety, for human safety. A speaker just now, for example, at the end of his speech when he was making an assessment of the Church, as a wish, of course as a good will, the dark clouds over our country would scatter." he said. Dear friends, we can all do this as a wish, but nowhere in the world is security provided with such romantic dispersion of dark clouds. There are two ways to do this: one, you're going to have a confrontation with your policies, a real vision, a horror, insight in your politics. And secondly -- there's another method -- more like the way the government of Turkey prefers -- you buy large amounts of weapons from some countries, and then the dark clouds scatter over you. We've heard that a new arms purchase project is also on the agenda of ISIS from Germany. Hence, it is likely that the dark clouds will scatter on occasion. But the insensitivity of this approach isn't just about the oratories here. Look, one of the statements used in the past, one of the Prime Minister's statements, contains the expression "deniality" and "locality." Now, why would you use the expression "unobserver" to an armed organization, why would you use the expression "hain"? Ungrateful, the word is very clear, so you do a favor, but he denies it, he doesn't know what's good for you, you describe it as ungrateful. What do you use the concept of the traitor for? He's not really like that, but then he betrayed her. What he's betrayed, who he's betrayed, I suppose you're guessing more or less. But worst of all, we offered the Church the Nobel Peace Prize a month ago, didn't we, as the Republic of Turkey? Now, what if, two days later, who lives at that border, who controls it, who's in charge of it, is there a missile down here, a rocket down here, if you knew what the power of this ISIS is, and yet you offered it to the Nobel Peace Prize, then you have no idea but to humiliate Turkey to the world. No, if you did this on purpose, I mean, you're aware of these bombs, rockets, missiles and all that, but if you think we're going to make the Militia happy with the Nobel Peace Prize, then that's your appreciation. Dear lawmakers, we are trying to save the laws and conditions that should have been raised within a few days, while we are currently in a shorter way about visa exemption, as refugees have been placed on one side of the scale, because we do not think we can handle the basic responsibilities that we should be able to fulfill in the European Union process. In fact, the work we're doing, the people who are watching us right now, they're probably seeing us, and they're realizing that the hall is pretty close right now, but when there's a vote, our deputies who are doing a lot of valuable work are going in, and they're doing their job in party discipline about the motions, and we're saving the situation. For one thing, it's, you know, to put it mildly, it's actually makeup on the dead. If this is the way one country makes law in its Parliament, then there's really not much need to talk about something else, to build other mechanisms, to discuss the minimum systematic process required by the European Union process. But if you prefer this method, then... a few moments ago, a congressman is teaching us presidential lessons every chance he gets, let me remind him of something. If there is no president, there will be chaos. The parliamentary system becomes custody. He says, "It's like, "oh, he's reading the same question over and over again." But let me remind him that there is no such thing as party discipline in the presidential system, folks. If there was party discipline in the presidential system, America would be paralyzed. Because when the president is from another party, Congress, Senate is from another party, the party's lack of discipline can make decisions for the greater interests of America.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0101par0159	Then back up, back up the presidential system.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0100par0160	Well, now, when you bring the presidential system here, when you put your hand up like that, and you vote like that, this place turns into a theater, and it turns out that the situation that's facing a disaster is really just a systematic way to cover it with makeup. In fact, the country, let alone operate on it, operate on it, turn it into a cadaver, cadaver. Everyone's operating from one side, everyone's operating from the other, wherever they can, whether you deny it or not. Dear lawmakers, there's a saying in Arabic: "Harese" is a thorny plant that grows in the desert, which the camels like very much. That's where the word "Hurrah" actually comes from, and that's where the word "ihitiras" comes from. The camel loves this plant, loves it very much, but the more it eats its mouth, the more it loves its own blood, the more it bleeds, the more it bleeds, the more it bleeds. This verb also covered his eyes with ambition. Some phrases, such as the expression, have entered Turkish. Dear lawmakers, the picture we're facing today, the picture of violence and conflict all over the country, blood and tears every day. It takes a political responsibility, a moral and a conscience to get ahead of whoever killed whoever died -- no matter who died -- but instead of building it, instead of building it, instead of looking for it politically, we're just wasting time making laws that we think we can fool the European Union, we're not doing anything else. Dear lawmakers, I'm not going to give you a very long-distance example, and I don't like to talk about myself or anything, but I've been rested for five years by law enforcement until last year on the grounds that I'm a member of the Tevhit Selam Organization. Now, when I say "Tevhit Selam Organization," you can guess who's listening? You know that parallel that you've always accused us of, and so on and so forth... now, when I was resting, a lot of your friends would go to every opening and say hello to Pennsylvania, but now you're coming out of it so easily, you're saying that he's already a terrorist organization, he's already done it. In my case, the KCK decides I'm a member of the Turkish Parliament. Now, let's put aside the civilian surveillance of the security forces, this is a very technical issue, and it's a little out of here. What about the security forces? Are you going to watch his finances, follow his verbs, follow his security strategy? Is there any way to track the security bureaucracy? Is civil society watching right now? The commissions you set up in the House, are they doing any good? Without all this, there's no way to track the security sector, but we're setting up another mechanism. There's nothing being done about the trial. Look, our friend, whom you reacted so strongly that day, died in Roboski, Uludere, 15 very close relatives, most of them children, and you couldn't stand to hear him talk about a mechanism for surveillance in the security sector. Well, now, you know as well as I do that the security sector won't be followed under these circumstances, but if Europeans eat it, I mean, if they take this law seriously, good for all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0102par0168	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Hayati Tekin, Samsun MP. Here you go, Mr. Tekin.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0103par0172	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the CHP Group on the second part of the Bill of the Law on the establishment of Kollik Watch Commission 277, which is being discussed today. I salute the High Council. Blessed is the Miraç Kandili, blessed is the blessing of God. In accordance with the materials we're talking about today, I wish you the best of luck to our law enforcement forces in the fight against terrorism. I ask God's mercy, healing our veterans, and patience for their families. The reason for the move of the Law Bill on the Building of the Law Watch Commission is to meet obligations in exchange for the recent visa exemption under the commitment of the European Union's compliance laws. In fact, we are not fundamentally opposed to this draft law, but we see it as a law that should be passed in the 23rd term. But we're opposed to being imposed by the European Union. If there is no European Union, we will call the Ankara Criters, make all the decisions, pass all the approvals. So, I ask you again, what do these arrangements stand for? We know that in exchange for visa exemption, 3 million will be stationed in our Syrian country. What brings you visa exemption? Those who can travel to Europe will not pay 60 euros; again, tourists who will go to Europe will wait in line for long queues, so the mountain will give birth to mice. Of course, the most attractive, sweetest part of the job for the AKP will remain in our Syrian country, 3 million out of 1,000 euros each. Antrparanthesis is expected to bring 152,000 babies into the world in 2016. The unemployment rate in our country, except for agriculture, is over 10 per cent -- 17 million people living on the edge of poverty, 6 million citizens on the edge of starvation -- is expected to increase as a result of the congested income, which is expected to increase from $10,390 to $9,380 in the outcome of the medium-term program, and while the estimated person for 2016 is estimated to be $9.364 per cent per cent, while the industry and trade markets are bleeding out, shouldn't we turn around and do an account? When we look at the account, a person's birth, growth, education from elementary school to high school, nutrition, housing, housing, employment opportunities -- antrparanthesis, we know that we need to invest $200,000 in order to create a job for one person in our country -- plus, this person gets married, owns a stove, public investments per capita, the cost of a person is $2 million in European standards, and the price of a stake we get is $997000 per person's head. I know it's rude to call you Kelle. You know, it's a word said here because of your accounting model, and it can never, never be used by Republican People's Party for martyrs. While trying to disable National Sovereignty ceremonies on April 23, the secularism must be removed from the Constitution. With an invitation delivered to Kutülamare, 11 separate events, six months of celebration programme will take place on the evening of April 29th, the first event was carried out. Celebrations are the triumph of a battle against British imperialism. Happy birthday to all of us. May the place of our ancestors be in heaven, first Halil Pasha. This victory over British imperialism was lifted that day by NATO's directives, in 1952, in the same way as today's lubricant to the European Union. Today, the AKP is in harmony with its understanding. In fact, the AKP can also celebrate its own victory. On February 22, 2015, as you know, the great armies of the world -- these armies -- are used as irony -- the ISIS army, the YPG army, the PYD army -- were brought to our limit in a night of how many times the Suleiman Shah Temple, which, thanks to its support for Turkey's eight hundred years, has been the size of a stadium that our economist has protected. As you know, that blessed day that Mr. Davutoglu could not praise his great escape victory will remain in the pages of your government as a black mark. I'm telling you in particular, as you don't know, the key thing to hide from the public is that the ranks of escape to the commanders have not been accepted by the Turkish Armed Forces. One day all those responsible for this black stain on our glorious history will answer in front of the Supreme Court and history. As the Great Leader Ataturk points out to us as a target of the murky levels of civilizations, he has opened the horizon to the fallen nations of imperialism. Today, the AKP's policies are postmarking Western imperialists, especially in the Middle East, who have ambitions over the oppressed and the victimic nations. When we said we were going to expel the created ISIS from Syria, we were unable to protect our borders. We gave up the border, and we couldn't protect our land, especially in the Church. Interestingly, we can't protect the people of the Church from the governor of the Church. Minister, if you really go and have a look, is that the governor you appointed? Don't let Kemal Sunal's friends sit on the bench in the snow! Although the people there were pleased with Kemal Sunal and his friend. Under Article 51 of the United Nations, Mr. President and Mr. Davutoglu are well aware that we have the right to destroy the intruders. All they do is call out, "O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, That, of course, is just singing and whistling in the dark. I suggest you lay down tonight and summon the soul of the late Ecevit. Dear friends, if not, we are all about to be set up in Syria. Meanwhile, America, the strategic partner of those who claim to be the co-chair of BOP, has given the green light for Assad's stay in Syria. Our strategic partner, America, who we shot down the Russian plane for while Greece turned the islands in the Aegean. We can't even get our noses out of our 900km limit with this grim picture standing in front of us. All that remains of your bankrupt foreign policy is our precious solitude. In view of the outcome we face, the effort to meet 72 conditions, including the establishment of the Watch Commission with Bill 277 rows in which we are negotiating, is the face of 3 billion euros in respect of water. The first one hasn't arrived yet, but the second 3 billion euros is about to drop. If that money doesn't come, it'll burn my rose to the ground. That money may not come. Because the European Council's Human Rights Report, announced on April 14th, emphasised that human rights principles and the principles of the state of law in particular in the fight against terrorism have been violated, and most importantly, that freedom of expression is limited, and that the source of all these problems is due to the loss of judicial independence. In this environment, where there is no independence of the judiciary, the most prominent element in the second part of the law enforcement commission is the establishment of the top chiefs commission, which has nothing to do with transparency and independence. ▪ Personal security is not included in the bill, as mentioned in the first chapter on the basis of the workload. For the same reason, work is busy. Anonymous, addressless, even T.C., anonymous reports are not accepted as complaints, but as an excuse, "the workload is shown. How, in particular, would the oppressed, pushed citizen, who has been wronged, knowing that law enforcement has become political in the police, be able to make his complaint safely to an armada, which is a hierarchy organization? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the High Council and its esteemed MPs.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0104par0191	Thank you, Mr. Tekin. On behalf of the groups, Mehmet Parsak, Afyonkarahisar MP for the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Parsak.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0105par0195	St. Turkic nation, respected lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute you all. Today is May 3rd. For us Turkish nationalists in 1944, on this occasion I celebrate the Nationalist Day of all Turkish nationalists on the 72nd anniversary of the Turkish nationalist political movement that sprouted in coffins seventy-two years ago. Gene, today is a blessed day for the entire Islamic world, the Miraç Kandili. I call upon the Lord God to bless the Lord and the Lord God that the MPs, the stenographers in our General Assembly, and the whole world of Islam, are the cause of the Miraç Kandili, who are watching us at the beginning of the screens. Honourable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action on the establishment of Kollik Watch Commission 277 rows and on the second part of the Bill of Law on Changes in Some Laws. The second part of the law bill appears to include the Security Commission's procedures, registration and administrative procedures and the procedures of the commission's central registration system and the processing of preliminary reviews and disciplinary investigations. As it is known, our law enforcement forces are considered under two headings -- general law enforcement forces and special law enforcement forces -- police, gendarmes, Coast Guard, customs protection, MIT, Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, forest protection, execution protection and temporary village guards. With our law enforcement forces spread so wide, it's clear how careless and rashly the bill is that only the police, the gendarme and the coast guard structure is covered by a structure responsible for the supervision of our law enforcement forces. As part of the process of the European Union's visa liberalisation dialogue, the government quickly warms up legislation dating back to the 24th term, bringing such carelessness to parliament's agenda often leads us to experience. Although monitoring law enforcement in the norms of the European Union is intended, of course, for issues such as transparency and credibility, the proposed bill is also trying to implement a government surveillance mechanism, as well as a parallel control mechanism for our current law enforcement mechanisms. Perhaps this approach, taken advantage of the opportunity, puts the control mechanisms of our law enforcement forces, who are already in office and are struggling with many issues, especially neutrality. The power is again in front of the Grand Assembly with a sloppy bill that contains contradictions within itself, and unfortunately, it is no more than a ban. Respected lawmakers, if the bill is adopted, the problems of our law enforcement forces will be solved, not only that, but they will become more complicated. It is impossible for us to accept such efforts by power to create a conscious multilingual entity in the governing system as the National Movement Party. In many ways, this arrangement has been unacceptable, particularly the Ministry of Interior's Court of Property Board, which has entered the field of our law enforcement agencies. Members of parliament, chair of the Undersecretary of Human Rights of Turkey, Chairman of the Interior Ministry's Property Board, Justice Ministry 1. The legal counsel consists of a member of the Council of Ministers, who will be appointed by the General Director of Criminal Affairs, General Director of Criminal Affairs and the Minister of Justice from academics and free lawyers working on criminal and criminal law. The monitoring commission, which should be independent and civilian in terms of the norms of the European Union, has been replaced by the Parliament as an example of its view of the concepts of independence and civility, which will be determined by the Council of Ministers by the proposal of state officers and the Minister of Justice. It seems that from the concepts of civility and independence, power understands to be distant and close to everyone and everything, but to the AKP. Congressmans, in the name of visa liberalisation, while our law enforcement has dozens of problems, the fact that the issues relating to the supervision of our law enforcement force have been brought to the attention is a sad revelation of a government-style occupation. As for the rights of our law enforcement, the government, who is silent, abandons the opposition's research proposals and law proposals to the flow of time, and unfortunately, according to the European Union's instructions, it carries such laws to Parliament at jet speed. As for the harsh and negative working conditions of our law enforcement, the government, which is silent, is alive, talking, and accelerating when visa liberalisation comes to the European Union. As for the career planning of our law enforcement forces, the government, which has not acted on the wishes and desires of the European Union, is trying to cast a shadow on the custom with so-called regulations that will not cure any trouble. The government is insensitive when it comes to the organizational order that our law enforcement forces have been destroyed under the name of fighting the parallel structure, when it comes to the sensitivities of the European Union. The government, which immediately rejects our proposals to increase the rights of our martyrs and veterans and their relatives, to eliminate their victims, is fueled by a standard of surveillance and control of our labour law enforcement, based on the norms of the European Union. In response to the demands of the terrorist organization, the government, acting like a lamb in Oslo, Habur, and Dolmabahçe, has been slaughtered in the face of every legitimate demand of our law enforcement force, in particular for the unional rights. Members of parliament, such activities, which have been coerced by the government in the name of visa liberalisation, are almost useless as well as the issues which have been recently brought up by European countries in regard to visa liberalisation, as well as in the lack and error that I have just expressed. After the visa liberalisation agreement, which was adopted to Turkey in March, the European Union countries changed their mouth when they saw the appetite for the government's visa liberalisation, began to say that the legalisation of 72 issues for visa liberalisation would not be sufficient, and the implementation of these topics should also be assessed, even if visa exemption is granted, if any European state's capacity for transition is overcome. There is a saying in Asia Minor until they see the village as the companion of Abdal. Similarly here, the European Union's visa liberalisation promise was until the acceptance agreement adopted, and after the agreement's adoption, crackling sounds began to rise more and more. The power, as always, is, in its own words, very close to being deceived and deceived. Members of lawmakers, the other thing that needs to be brought to the attention here is to ensure the safety of our state and nation and to clear the results of the government's wrong policies, our law enforcement forces tasked with carrying out the necessary work and procedures. This method, especially in social events, undermines the bond of communication and cooperation between our law enforcement forces and our nation. Another mistake made by the government is that when the government is inverted by terrorism in Oslo, in Habur, and Dolmabahçe, it has previously tied its hands under the name of the sorority, our security forces are on the ground unplanned, and despite all the warnings of the Milliyetian Movement Party in the past, it falls to the land of which the government has known its lives as a saint. As the National Movement Party, we recommend that the government refrain from studying as a student trying to improve its homework during recess and be sensitive and careful about high-profile issues that may affect our country's future and state functioning. As the National Movement Party, we have the right to the essence of our security forces defending the rule, the undivided integrity of the Republic of Turkey and its nation with their lives and blood. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...investigating to work to protect and raise their reputations, and once again, I salute all of you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0106par0218	Thank you, Mr. Parsak. The talks for the groups are over. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of lawmakers who have requested a word on their behalf. First speaker on behalf of Mustafa Şükrü Nazlı, Kütahya MP. Here you go, Mr. Nazli.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0107par0224	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the establishment of Kollik Watch Commission 277 rows and on the second part of the Bill of the Law on Changes in Some Laws. I hereby salute you and our beloved nation. Before I begin my words, blessed Miraç Kandili, I wish him to bring blessings to our country and to the world of Islam. I pray to God for the mercy of our security forces, who have died in recent acts of treasonous attacks in Bursa, Gaziantep, Diyarbakir and Şemdinli. In this geography that we've lived with for centuries, I remember the saints who sacrificed their lives in the fight against terrorism with mercy and gratitude. I give thanks to our martyr relatives, our veterans, and all of our security forces who continue to fight terrorism. Today our prayers are also in Aleppo. The heart of Aleppo from the capitals of our geography is on fire, the world is watching. In the attacks by Esed forces and Russia, 290 people were killed in ten days, 3,150 people were injured, 2,100 families were injured, 700 buildings were destroyed, 30,000 people needed. There have been 600 air strikes and over 3,000 missile attacks. I curse the forces of Esed and Russia that have done this massacre, and all the organizations that have supported them, and all the countries that have done so. Dear lawmakers, the bill we are discussing aims to ensure that the law complaint system works more effectively and quickly, improve transparency and credibility, move the trust in the law enforcement complaint system to higher levels. One of the main tasks of our state is to prepare environments that allow individuals to use their basic rights and freedoms, guaranteed by the Constitution and by law, in safety, free from fear and anxiety. In the execution of these functions, the primary institutions are law enforcement units. In some cases, law enforcement forces, equipped with a number of powers that other public officials do not have, are interfering in cases such as searching, using force and restricting freedom, as they are all over the world. The use of such important powers has made law enforcement officers more open to complaints than other public officials, and these complaints, especially in a way that can have a broad public reaction from time to time, such as abuse and torture. Under the law, it is important to determine whether these powers are being used in the direction of society's expectations and to share it with the public. As the bill we discussed was drawn up, the current complaint system in the European Union has been reviewed, polled with citizens, assessed with relevant public institutions and organisations, and after consultations with NGOs, the General Assembly has finally reached our agenda today, meeting with our Interior Commission. With the establishment of the law enforcement commission, the current complaint system and administrative investigation system in the system are strengthened. While the current structure continues, there are no changes in the penal justice system, along with some additional additions. I mean, the authorities of the prosecutors and the judiciary continue to be the same. The effective work of the law enforcement complaint system is of great importance in modern democracies for strengthening public confidence in the state. Legal regulations are being made in many countries, especially in the European Union countries. The bill aims to promote confidence in the law enforcement system of public opinion and law enforcement personnel to higher levels, and on the other hand, the infrastructure of the records and investigative systems regarding complaints against law enforcement officials is being introduced to European Union standards. The commission, which will be set up, will activate the current mechanism for reports and complaints, covering law enforcement personnel serving at the Police General Directorate, the General Command of the gendarmes and the Coast Guard Command. The Lawkeeping Commission will be a commission that is important to the public and law enforcement staff to have an additional authority outside the criminal justice system, which boosts their confidence in the complaint system. With that thought and emotion, I wish the bill of law to be good to our country, to the unity and integrity of our country, to the security forces that protect our nation's lives and property security, to the right of their duties, and to all of you, I salute.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0108par0233	Thank you, Mr. Nazli. Second speaker on behalf of Baki Simsek, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0109par0237	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the bill for the meeting of law enforcement commissions. I salute your high council. I celebrate the Miraç Kandili of the entire Islamic world. On the occasion of the Miraç Kandili, I hope, the blood and tears that flow through the entire Islamic world will end. Also, we celebrate May 3rd Turkish Day, which was celebrated here in 1944, which led to today's events, tortures, sufferings, exiles, especially Prime Minister Alparslan Turkesh, to Ziya Gökalp and our fellow litigators, we ask for God's mercy. Of course, our martyrs keep coming. In the last five days, we have 25 martyrs, over 100 wounded. I ask God's mercy for all our martyrs. Unfortunately, in Turkey, due to the wrong policies that have been implemented, in many parts of the east and southeastern region, particularly the Church, the events continue in a busy way, but unfortunately there are still no necessary measures being taken concerning the Church, and Kilis is being evacuated now, and many of the people in the church are migrating from the Church. The country's governorate officer says that experts will be sent to the people of the church to do therapy for the people of the family and women. We expect our government to take the necessary measures, exercise its right to self-defense. The majority of the people in this region are already suffering from immigration and are coming to Mersin, my constituency. Mersin is hosted by more than 300,000 Syrians and faced more than 400,000 immigrants along with immigrants from the east. Unemployment is already high in Mersin. Right now, with agriculture and citrus down, Mersin is in a very difficult position. On this occasion, the Syrians are taking advantage of any means better than our people. A Turkish person living in Turkey can't be examined in public hospitals as much as he wants, but a Syrian can go to the hospital as he wants. A Syrian student can benefit from the university exam in a more privileged way than our young people. Our government's priority is to ensure the happiness and prosperity of the Turkish people, to ensure their safety, but unfortunately, the government, which cannot solve the housing problem of the people in Turkey, explains projects to Syrian housing. We are busy building EU laws, building presidential and new constitution dreams, but there are no items on the agenda that we're talking about; the Turkish person, unfortunately, is struggling with poverty and poverty. The tomato is now 100 cents a pound in Virtue. While Rize, Izmir, and other regions were being encouraged by the narciatrist, my constituency of the country, Mersin (the largest exporter of Turkey) was not paid for by the narcissist. Unfortunately, while we're dealing with these laws, the subject of subcontractors is still not on the table. We said we'd recruit 720,000 workers in the Tatron Act, but we're still holding them off. As the content of the law emerges, new disappointments arise. We don't give them union rights, we don't give them social benefits, we don't raise your salary. The first duty of parliament is to deal with Turkey's real problems, to solve terrorism, to solve unemployment, and to govern Turkey with the real agenda. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0110par0253	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Now, I'm going to do 15 minutes of QA on the second chapter, and I'm going to promise the MPs who entered the system. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0111par0256	Mr. President, I'm asking the Minister of Environment and Urbanism: it's been observed that the Menderes basin was contaminated by the delivery of industrial and urban waste to Menderes, and that the irrigated land was barren due to the contamination of the river. The Great Menderes basin is Turkey's high agricultural potential. Agricultural pollution due to industrial and domestic waste due to rapid industrialization and urbanization and faulty fertilizer threatens sustainable agriculture by negative impacting river ecosystems and basin efficiency. What measures do you intend to take to correct them? My second question is, Babadağ Çurkağ has three cell towers in the area near the cluster houses, and the trees around the cell towers have been affected by yellowing, like the institution, and in recent years, cancer cases have been raised by the people in the region. The effects of 3 cell towers are clearly monitored, while cell towers are increasing rapidly downtown and across the country. What measures do you intend to take regarding these? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0112par0259	Thank you, Mr. lion. I promise you there are no more questions. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0113par0262	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I want to answer the first question. Our detailed work on the seven basins of Turkey has begun. We're going to build projects in these areas, and we're going to take measures to protect the environment from contamination here. I'll also give you the detailed information on this in writing. The second said, "Do you plan to take precautions at the point of the impacts of 3 cell towers? This is not really our issue, but we will inform the relevant ministries about it and get a written answer from them. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0114par0266	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The question-answer process is over. There are two motions on the 6th article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of the provision of the provision of the 6th article of the Law Bill 277 rows, which has been discussed, be changed in the form of the service and administration of the 6th article (1). İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Müslüm Doğan Behcet Yıldırım Burcu Çelik Özkan Alican Önlü Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and That the declaration of the 6th Amendment shall be changed within a month by the Ministry, prepared and arranged by the Ministry. Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Hayati Tekin Murat Minister Honorary Name Tanju Özcan Zeynel Emre İstanbul Bolu İstanbul Mahmut Tanal Engin Özkoç Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0115par0284	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0114par0285	Government?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0116par0286	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0114par0287	Zeynel Emre wants to talk about the motion, İstanbul MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Emre.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0117par0290	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 6th Amendment of the Law Bill concerning the establishment of Kollik Watch Commission 277 rows and the amendment to some Laws, and I salute you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we've been working here almost all morning for weeks. There's a goal, there's a goal, we're going to get the laws, the laws, the laws the European Union wants for visa exemption, out of here fast. We will remove it quickly, so that our citizen may travel freely through Europe. One of the laws that we've discussed with this purpose is regarding today's law enforcement commission. There's an area in the world where all countries are very difficult. Public benefit, the concept of public safety and individual rights and freedoms are a subject of debate in all management systems in which human rights concepts conflict, conflict. If we don't deal with this whole thing, we'll be wrong. Constitutions, laws, regulations are primarily intended for people to live together, designed for this purpose, the rules of living together. Over time, it can be changed according to needs, and the key here is the will of the people, but everyone must abide by the existing laws, the Constitution, the regulations. There's a penalty for disobeying the law. There's sanctions. People imitate those who rule him in this regard; they imitate the President; they imitate the Speaker; they look at the ministers, the governors; they look at the people who know the Constitution; they call the governors; they look at whether they know the Constitution; they don't care whether he says or not; or you don't listen to the law now, if necessary, then we make a law if necessary. If such a will comes from above, the law enforcement officers below will find it difficult to follow the rules. Then we were deceived by these law enforcement officers, we made a mistake, the risk of security in the country increased, so go fix it. When you fix it, do not violate human rights, act in accordance with the law, observe basic rights and freedoms. Dear lawmakers, after all, the European Court of Human Rights can't keep up with the files that are leaving our country. The result: the shooting and loss of Ethem Sarısülük, Ali Ismail Korkmez, Berkin Elvan, Abdullah, and many others. The result is that Hrant Dink's killer was greeted in a glorious form with arms. We can replicate the samples. Dear lawmakers, look, this country needs peace, peace; everyone in this title agrees, everyone on this stand talks about peace, democracy, but let's not forget that if four parties in parliament don't compromise in minimum partnerships, there is no peace in this country without 550 lawmakers. Do the people who fight their representatives live in peace? Is that realistic? We have a people in Parliament who can see how many times TV has interrupted the broadcast, how many fights have been fought in one day, and how many fights have been fought in the Parliament. Dear lawmakers, we share our talks on social media, and the voters who listen to me every week will say, "Well, maybe this deputy says the same thing all the time." Unfortunately, I say the same thing about the bills we've been talking about for a few weeks. The Law enforcement Commission may be useful for our country, but it will be useful if it is established as a civilian authority, just as it is in the countries of the European Union in the West. That way we'll be deceiving each other. We will also see if the European Union will understand this or not. Let's just say that we can take steps to democratize the country ourselves, and why are we waiting for the European Union's demands? We'll get better. Let's do it first. There are examples of this in the past. Look, this was not in many places in Europe when we gave the woman the right to choose and be elected in 1934. This Parliament is over the age of many countries. As long as it's intentional, we don't do tacit, let's be sincere. I mean, somebody has to say, "Yes, the Council Commission established here is a civilian authority." To be honest, they laugh at you. If we're going to study the pressure of power, if that's the way we're going to take it, amenna, let's all support each other, but in this case, we're going to be deceiving each other. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0118par0298	Thank you, Mr. Emre. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0119par0300	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit02spe0118par0301	There's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, and I'll call the number of decisions in the vote. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0118par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. İstanbul MP Zeynel Emre and his friends' motion to vote was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We continue the talks of Bill 277. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of the provision of the provision of the 6th article of the Law Bill 277 rows, which has been discussed, be changed in the form of the service and administration of the 6th article (1). Burcu Çelik Özkan (Mush) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0120par0012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0118par0013	Government?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0121par0014	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0118par0015	It's Burcu Steel Özkan who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Steel Özkan.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0122par0018	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking a lot here, but I don't think we can talk about our children. I think that our children, in every field, in society, in the family, on the street, in every area they are, are actually people who need to be treated completely differently. I think it's a good idea to address the conditions of our children's prisons here today, on the children who are staying in prisons. Now, the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights, which Turkey is a party to, and Turkey's national law, the Child Protection Act, has been ruled that the withdrawal of children from freedom should be considered the latest method to be considered and restricted for as long as possible. Thus, it is a legal obligation for the state to protect and protect these children within the framework of national and international legislation and rules that they are brought up to separate them from their family and keep them thousands of miles away from their homes. However, despite all these national and international contracts, Turkey has 2,384 juvenile prisoners, 1,667 prisoners and 717 prisoners, as of January 13, 2016. Now, this number clearly shows us that children with no provisions are being held in prisons, that the justice system in Turkey is far from protecting children. In Turkey, there are three children, including İstanbul Maltepe, Ankara Sincan and İzmir Aliya Şakran, and three children's education centres in İstanbul, Ankara and Denizli. If there is no problem caused by the Justice Department, it has also been reported to the press that the children's prison in Tekirdağ district, which is also capable of 288 people in 2017 and 2018, will be opened in 2016. There is still no educational home intended to open between 2016 and 19, which aims to increase 1,440 capacities. Again, three children are currently in prison, in many prisons where adults are locked up, under the same conditions as adults. Children who are held in prisons where adults are closed instead of in children's homes or children's homes are a problem. As the institutional staff in adult prisons have no experience or experience in their approach to children, it is also impossible for children to participate in activities organised in prisons, adapt to social and cultural life. It is also another problem that there is no legal and political distinction for children in prisons, as there is for adults. Dear friends, the physical conditions of prisons are far from improving children. Overcrowded, inadequate health conditions, maltreatment, especially lack of personnel, and the violence and abuse of other people in prisons are the main complaints from children who are imprisoned. The fact that children are exposed to naked searches in prisons, that they don't surround their mother with glass from closed-view applications, that everything, including three meals of water, is paid for, and that we need to be the solution. We get applications from various prisons every day, and I'll only mention one. It happened in Adana, and I read it directly to the press: on the last days of March, the lawyers who went to prison on the complaints of families in a closed prison of the type Adana E. The guards constantly audited the children, the children kept waiting, the guards kept telling the children that they were the president. They found that children who did not use this address were beaten. It has also been noted that children arrested for political reasons have been beaten in the name of naked search, welcome beatings, and have been beaten again in every environment without cameras, without treatments for sick or wounded children in need of care. I feel that we should all approach these matters with sensitivity, all of us under the roof of this Parliament, and I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0123par0026	Thank you, Mr. Steel Özkan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 6th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 7th article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At the end of the second sentence of Article 7 of the Common Law Bill 277, "This is reported to those who report and complain." "This will be reported to those who report and complain within ten days." We offer and offer to change it into form. With all due respect. Kadir Koçdemir Nuri Okutın Erkan Haberal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Law Bill 277, which is currently in session, shall be taken into consideration by the Ministry in order to make the report or complaint available electronically. We offer and propose that the notice be added. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Müslüm Doğan Behcet Yıldırım Mahmut Celadet Gaydlı Alican Önlü Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 7th article of the Law shall be changed in the following manner, as follows, concerning the establishment of the Watch Commission 277 rows and the amendment to some Laws. 26/4/2016 Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Murat Minister Hayati Tekin Tanju Özcan Mahmoud Tanal Onursal ===References=========References=======External links======References======External links======References======External links=========References=======References======External links=== In regards to reports and complaints reported directly or directly as a result of the investigation, there is no action under the Law or disciplinary regulations on the trial of Officers and Other Public Servants, dated 2/12/999, and on the basis of 2/12/1999. If the person who has reported and complained wishes to be informed by the board about the report and the monitoring of the complaint, he can inform the institution of his personal contact information. In this case, the board informs the person who reported it according to the course of the investigation. Information on unprocessed reports and complaints is processed only as a case and as a central registration system, without a claim on personal information and information of the law enforcement officer who has been reported about the report and the complaint. The identity information of those who report or complain is kept confidential." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0124par0054	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0123par0055	Government?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0125par0056	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0123par0057	It's Kazim Arlen, Denizli MP, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0126par0060	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute all of you with love and respect. I've been promised a change in Article 7 of the Charter on the Establishment of Laws 277 and the Amendment to Some Laws. First, I congratulate you on your Miraç Kandili. I also wish God's mercy on our law enforcement forces, who have already been martyred, and my condolences on their families. Now, I wish there would be a law on the establishment of the Central System of the Council Commission on the 7th Amendment that would allow law enforcement to be carried out more regularly, more disciplined, better, by gathering reports and complaints on this subject in the same commission and by following it from here. However, in the current structure today, I would especially like to say that it would be appropriate for our law enforcement schools to be shut down, our colleges to be shut down, our police academy to remain in the middle, where our colleagues who have studied, and many of them who have not been able to find work, and because they are victims, first of all, to be able to work together with their victims. Because my dear friends, our friends, who entered the Police Academy, who entered the Police College, accepted the terms of it, and were registered in school to have a job, to have a job, to have a job, to have a job, to have authority, but then to be shut down, while some of the students were given a job, they were not given a lot of it by choice, unfortunately, they weren't, they were victimized. Therefore, first, I would like to point out that there is a need for a study at the point of resolving the victims of the closure of these schools. My dear friends, valued lawmakers, look, we observe that our friends in many law enforcement agencies are doing better in police colleges if they grow up at the Police Academy, but other than that, most of our high school graduates who want to be a cop because they can't get a job, and most of our friends who go to the police profession can't do their jobs in a good way. Therefore, I think this commission will do a job for our friends both to do well and to be followed, but no matter what happens, it's as good as it is for people from the profession to do their job, and there's nothing as good as doing their job better. So I think it's important that these friends of ours, our fellow law enforcement officers, are doing a very important task, and that in order to ensure that they maintain good public relations with the public, they need to allow their education and education to be done and done in a very good way. So, first of all, police colleges that have been shut down need to do a study to enable the opening of the Police Academy. In addition, we need to remove the victims of the victimized police brothers, who have not been able to study at these schools and become involved in the lottery. In addition, law enforcement is also required to treat our people in the same way, in the same way, beyond treating them differently during their mission. I especially say that they need to give up their wrong actions and pressures against the students, and I respectfully salute you all again. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0127par0067	Thank you, Mr. lion. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Law Bill 277, which is currently in session, shall be taken into consideration by the Ministry in order to make the report or complaint available electronically. We offer and propose that the notice be added. Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı (Bitlis) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0128par0074	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0127par0075	Government?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0129par0076	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0127par0077	It's Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı, Bitlis MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0130par0080	Mr. President, before I begin my remarks, I congratulate the Islamic world and the blessed Miraç Kandili of true Muslims. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party and my group, I have taken a pledge on Article 7 of the Law Bill 277. I salute you and the public. Dear lawmakers, the central registration system will be established to monitor complaints against Articles and law enforcement officers. However, one of the most remarkable things about this article is that personal data will be included in the central registering system as personal data for the person who reported or complained about law enforcement. The reason for the substance will also be counted from personal data, which is said to have been predicted by the CK, about those who record these data against the law, who are on foot, possessing it or destroying it. But so far, the practice of the state is especially obvious about personal data. As you all know, 50 million people's personal data is being published on some websites. I really believe that this should be answered, how and how you will ensure the safety of a central record system on this issue. The other issue is tag ops. An understanding from the Mukhtars to the officers who served at the government offices that makes everyone at the end of this plug-in coil. Today, it's a known fact that we have been branded from all parts of society to our citizens who don't think like power. People are marked for their identities, their beliefs, their thoughts, their political views, their lifestyles. In our recent history, it is possible to set dozens of examples of this. Today, we have an understanding that considers any criticism of law enforcement to be criminal, equates treason, in this sense, suspending the law. Today, there is no guarantee that victims of law enforcement's practices will not be registered using the right to complain or even apply various sanctions against them. Dear lawmakers, when referred to the article (2), it is said that reports and complaints are not abstract and general, that they are involved in person or event. In particular, the lack of generality of this issue raises doubts as to which perspective the complaints or complaints mentioned may be addressed. In particular, crime and punishment are not being carried out fairly recently. The state considers the crime and the criminal in its own interest and establishes a hegemonia on the judiciary. In the general sense, it is intended for the system to be controlled and monitored by the governor and the governor of the Interior Ministry and the trustees. The rights violations of law enforcement and violence against the community are at an extreme stage under the orders of the governor and the trustees, even the Ministry of Interior. In this direction, in this system, obviously, you're complaining to whom? Unfortunately, the past and the current practical situation will create a trust issue in such an arrangement. How can people safely record all the information in this system when it's already a fear of being flagged by the government in public? The only way to overcome this problem is with a fully independent judicial system, a democratic and transparent understanding of governance. As long as there's a sense of governance that social polarization is spread to the marrow of society, unfortunately, these regulations will remain on paper, which will serve in practice for different purposes. And last but not least, in hundreds of important cases, how is this administration that has not punished a single law enforcement force so far, protecting law enforcement... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...will carry out the law. I have deep concerns that the complainer, not the complainer, will be victimized once again. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0131par0093	Thank you, Mr. Bagpipe. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0132par0097	We want roll call, Mayor, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0131par0098	Before you submit the motion to your votes, you have been asked to roll call. So I'm going to do the roll call first. Now, I'm going to identify the MPs who have requested roll call. Mr. Demirel, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Irgat, Mr. Todıyaman, Mr. Adıyaman, Mr. Zaydan, Mr. Yiğalp, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Özdoğan, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Firat, Mr. Atash, Mr. Büzekli, Mr. Öcalan, Mr. Özburçe Ertan. Initiating roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At the end of the second sentence of the second sentence of the 7th article of the Common Law Bill of 277 rows, we propose and propose that "this situation is reported to those who report and complain" be changed into "it will be reported to those who report and complain within ten days." Nuri Okumutan (Isparta) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0133par0115	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0131par0116	Government?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0134par0117	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0131par0118	I'm reading the reason: Reason: In the first sentence of the second sentence of the draft's 7th article, titled the Central Recording System, the first sentence is listed with reports and complaints, and in the second sentence, the conditions will not be processed for applications that do not carry these conditions, and the situation will be passed on to those who report or complain. However, there is no deadline for when it will be announced. This period is set as ten days by the amendment proposal, preventing the application from continuing and thus preventing pleasure I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 7th article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the article (1) of Article 8 (b) of Law Bill 277 is carried out in accordance with the scope of the requirements, if the preliminaries and/or disciplinary investigations are carried out by governors or subsidiaries. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Müslüm Doğan Behçet Yıldırım Alican Öllü Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of Law Bill 277 be replaced in the following manner by Article (1) (c). With all due respect. Kadir Koçdemir Nuri Okutın Erkan Haberal C) Preliminary investigations and/or disciplinary investigations launched by other administrative authorities will be handed over to the property inspector if the authorities are appointed to conduct a preliminary examination and/or disciplinary investigation. The commission itself does not conduct a direct investigation or/or disciplinary investigation. Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 (a) be removed from the article text of the Article 8 of the Law on the Establishment of Kollik Watch Commission 277, which is currently in session. Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Hayati Tekin Murat Minister Tanju Özcan Engin Özkoç Mahmut Tanal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0135par0147	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0131par0148	Government?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0136par0149	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0131par0150	Anyone want to talk about the motion? Motive, Mr. Altay?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0137par0152	Motive...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0131par0153	I'm reading the reason: In accordance with the law's purpose, law enforcement is intended to be under effective control and investigation. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of Law Bill 277 be replaced in the following manner by Article (1) (c). With all due respect. Kadir Koçdemir (Bursa) and his friends C) Preliminary investigations and/or disciplinary investigations launched by other administrative authorities will be handed over to the property inspector if the authorities are appointed to conduct a preliminary examination and/or disciplinary investigation. The commission itself does not conduct a direct investigation or/or disciplinary investigation. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0138par0164	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0131par0165	Government?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0139par0166	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0131par0167	I'm reading the reason: Although the commission is called the Enforcement Commission, it is not limited to registration and monitoring of tasks, Article 8 is also included in preliminary examination and disciplinary investigations. The fact that the Law enforcement Commission is also involved in the field of review and inspection means that the main goal of the bill is to overcome and enter the control area of the "surveillance" function. However, the commission's main task should be not "testing," but "watching" on its name. In addition, a second board is being formed next to the Interior Ministry Property Board, an important value to our country, which has been themed with the savings and expertise of the years, and its perception is highly ill-advised. The bill, in this case, provides the result of the reduction and deactivation of the Interior Ministry's Property Board in functions, human resources and other ways. With a change of heart, the bill added a "managemental authorities" to the top of the article (1) (c) to remove the perception that the commission will make the appointment of the property inspector to conduct the preliminary review and/or disciplinary investigation. Also, at the end of the bell, "The Commission itself does not conduct a direct investigation or/or disciplinary investigation." Added to the sentence, the commission is not an inspection unit, but a surveillance unit. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "In the case of preliminary reviews of these crimes and/or disciplinary investigations by governors or subservients, these transactions are carried out by officials in the class of property management services in the capacity of means." We offer and propose that his statement be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0140par0178	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0131par0179	Government?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0141par0180	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0131par0181	Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir, İstanbul MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0142par0184	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, in the matter of the draft law on law enforcement and disciplinary investigations of these crimes, the preliminaries and disciplinary investigations of these crimes are conducted by officials in the class of property management services, within the scope of the possibilities. This will mean that the ECHR decision experience has been ignored and has again invited to be convicted over and over again. It is important that the investigations and investigations be conducted by competent people and the bill also cover crimes committed in the past, since decisions made against Turkey have been made against Turkey due to the lack of investigation by competent individuals. Dear lawmakers, as far as I'm concerned, the constitutions are only changed in parliament by the way the constitution describes them, and there are no other options. Or there will be a coup and the constitution will be lifted. In its time, the Justice Party has clearly removed the immunity of the Court of Justice, or political freedom of expression, because of its lack of legislature. The Constitutional Court was not in charge of the Parliament. When the Justice Party broke its decision, the Court issued a warning. The ruling of Justice Party Deputy Orhan Seyfi, the Constitutional Court, means to leave the square of communist propaganda empty. Those opposed to communism were startled and amazed by this decision. This might seem a little old-fashioned to you. Because what's in fashion today is to write on three columns, in black puntos, in spy, coupger, terrorist. The political tradition continues. The Constitutional Court and the Constitution are both subjective today. Today, again, Congress uses a power that it does not have. There's been a hearing about our MPs because of what they said. The removal of immunity is lifted under the name "Law irresponsibility," meaning that lawmakers are not responsible for what they say. Is this under the authority of the House? No. You don't have to be a lawyer to understand this, but being an AK PARTY is enough. I'd like to ask one question: is there anyone left in Turkey who believes that judges and courts are neutral, including citizens who voted for the AKP? As the Supreme Court Chairman put it, confidence in the judiciary has dropped from 70 per cent to 30 per cent today. The Constitution states that the authorities are independent in their duties; no body, authority or person can instruct the courts or judges. Is that the way it is? No. As the president said, the parliamentary system is in the waiting room. Article 112, which holds the Prime Minister responsible for the administration's general policy, has now been thrown out. From 2015 to today, 1,845 lawsuits have been filed against the President for insulting him. It's Freedom of the Press Day. For freedom of the press, the European Convention states that freedom of the press is indispensable for a democratic country. Even Obama sends a clear message about freedom of the press in Turkey. Erdogan still doesn't have as much free media in any country as Turkey. How many opposition newspapers, how many TV stations are left today, and how many opposition journalists have been laid off? Do you really believe what you're saying? Yes, yesterday the epic was written. It says the Prime Minister. For all I know, epics are the works of historical, social events that have sparked a great deal of reverberation in the lives of the peoples. Looks like he was a deputy yesterday who thought Oscar Wilde was the Oscar. I will tell you something. I will not tell you who he is, nor will I tell you who said it. So investigate for yourselves and find out. Not saying, "I'll steal the one next to you from the national values; nationality, nation, we'll split the bread," said a man who said: "Parliamentary action earns the title of a servant to some people, and for some people a fine sentence of exile and heavy imprisonment. Everyone lives according to its rights. My respects.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0143par0196	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 8th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 9 that I make to read the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the 9th article of the Law Bill 277 rows, mentioned in Article (1), shall be changed as the history of the declaration. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Müslüm Doğan Behcet Yıldırım Alican Önlü Mahmut Toğrul
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0144par0206	We're pulling the motion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0143par0207	Yes, the other motion has been drawn, so I'm not having it read. Does the Commission agree with my motion now?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0145par0209	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0143par0210	Government?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0146par0211	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0143par0212	It's Ayhan Bilgen, Kars MP who wants to talk about the motion.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0147par0213	Mahmut Toğrul will speak, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0143par0214	Mr. Toğrul, please, sir, I believe you will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0148par0216	Mr. President, valuable MPs, yes, now that we're getting a visa to the European Union, we're going to Europe without a visa, but let me tell you about an example in Gaziantep. If such a country is having these problems, won't the European Union see them? Is it enough to pretend we're just pretending? Dear President, last week, the family of Nizip would like to bring the body to Nizip, as a blood match matches the results of the ATK results of a family that had previously been murdered and buried in Idil. Mr. President, when the family goes to the cemetery, they say it's a Gaziantep Metropolitan Municipality order, that they won't have the funeral buried in Nizip Cemetery. I've called Mr. Mayor of the Metropolitan, he's said to be disturbed, and I've been told that I can speak to the Vice President. In my meeting with the deputy president last week, a meeting was held the week before that, and the meeting was said that such funerals would no longer be permitted since Gaziantep Metropolitan Mayor, Nizip Mayor, Nizip Governor, Gaziantep Governor and police officials were in the city. So I tried to call Mr. Governor, Mr. Governor, but unfortunately, the governors, the governors, the governors, didn't respond to any of our meetings. Unfortunately, the family couldn't get her buried in a town where she was born, where she grew up, where she'd go tomorrow and read a Fatiha. After the funeral had been put on hold for a while, it was recommended that it be sent to Gaziantep (Gaziep) instead of Nizip to take it to Yeşilkent Cemetery. Dear friends, what conscience does a family through a funeral fit into, what law, what morality, what Islam, what conscience? Dear friends, the family had to bury Suruç. Now, what kind of law is it, what kind of conscience, what kind of morality is it, what kind of law is it that people say justice, who say Islam, and who talk about the Miraç Kandili, can be so tormented today, how they can meet the land, how they can go tomorrow at least and not be given a place to read a Fatih? So, really, this is the end of the AKP, the end of the AKP government. It is not denied, but it is clear that the funerals will no longer be allowed to be buried. If anyone's wondering, you can call and ask the governor of Nizip, the mayor of Nizip, the mayor of Gaziantep Metropolitan, or the governor. Dear friends, Governor of Gaziantep, the police are not answering our phones despite all our calls so far. Look, there was an explosion in our city on May 1st, and I was able to send my condolences to the Governor and the Commissioner. You're talking about law, you're talking about justice, you're talking about Islam, you're talking about faith. I wonder who gave that order, dear friends. What power, by proxy, have I received 103 thousand votes in the elected Gaziantep, who ordered these authorities not to take the phone of a deputy who received 103 thousand votes? Let them come out here and make it clear for these reasons. We know who authorized it. We're not gonna get caught up in this, we're gonna keep fighting. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0149par0224	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0150par0228	We have a roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0149par0229	There's a call request, so I'll do the roll call. First, I'm going to identify the members of lawmakers who have asked for a roll call. Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Irgat, Mr. Todıyaman, Mr. Adıyaman, Mr. Zeydan, Mr. Yigitalp, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Atash, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Bilgen, Mr. Ecalekli, Mr. Aslan, Mr. Lion, Mr. Özkurçe Ertan, Mr. Yıldırım. Initiating roll call, two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough to make a decision. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 9 is accepted. There's a motion on Article 10 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the 10th article of the Law Bill 277 rows, mentioned in Article (1), shall be changed as the history of the declaration. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Müslüm Doğan Behcet Yıldırım Alican Önlü Sibel Yiğitalp Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0151par0247	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0149par0248	Government?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0152par0249	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0149par0250	He wants to talk about the motion. He is Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0153par0253	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the law on law enforcement. As we always say our country is run on democracy, I want to give you a brief definition of democracy. Democracy is a form of governance that all members and citizens in the world have equal rights to organisation or state policy. So, we're talking about a country that's run by democracy today, but 49.5 per cent is almost 51 per cent. 49.5 per cent is not greater than 11 per cent in democracies, and 11 per cent is not greater than 1 per cent. Every color, every faith, every identity has a say in democracy, but today there is a great massacre on behalf of democracy, and there is a massacre on both human life through history and through all living things, and these massacres continue. There is now a curfew that lasts a hundred and fifty-five days, one hundred and fifty-five days. And look, I'm showing you the first version of Tyre, but when you look at it now, it's an image taken from the air by the governorate. We're talking about a place with 7,000 years of history, 7,000 years old. There are 592 historical artifacts out there, but since you have no respect for history, nor for human life, nor for human culture, you're doing the slaughter policies, and while you're at it, you want to shut up anyone who can, in any way, decrypt your policies, expose them. The law isn't necessary for you anyway. You never look over the law because the AKP policy sets the boundaries, the palace sets the rules, and there are dozens of lawsuits against people every day and every day through that court policy. And you can say, "Let the immunity of the HDP be lifted." So, without the HDP, you think you're going to run this country? Do you think this House will be legitimate? This country, this House, will never, never have legitimacy. Today, if you have no tolerance for different people, different beliefs, and you don't have the culture of tolerance, if you don't have the respect, this disrespect of yours, and your view of culture, it really sums up the distance between you and democracy. We...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0154par0256	We can't stand terrorism.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0153par0257	Do you know what terrorism is? He who accepts nothing but himself is the one who criminalizes everyone but himself. You're the ones who practice terrorism. You've created perceptions of this terrorism, and you've slaughtered thousands of people every day and every day over this perception. It's got soldiers, it's got cops, it's got guerrillas.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0155par0258	Terrorist, terrorist.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0153par0259	The death of so many people is your, in fact, illegal, completely illegal, non-human-valued policies, and we'll see that in time. The last time you're trying to do an operation on immunity, we don't have an immunity problem. What if we're untouchable and we're not? But ignoring the will of 5 million people is not a measure of respect in any democratic culture, nor will it be. And I want everyone here to think once again that the CHP came every day and filed reports on Sur through Cizre. Tomorrow, the next day, we'll come to Diyarbakır via immunity, and when this immunity is lifted, we'll file a report, and we'll see what happens. But this immunity will be ours today, tomorrow's CHP's, and we'll all watch it together. Look, I'm telling you, as long as these blockades continue, as long as these killings and massacres continue, you will all suffer these deaths. You stay, you don't know, you don't question, because you don't judge. And you come in here every day, you read mercy to people, you make sentences through martyrs, but the same things, the same things, the same things. People are tired of your politics.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0156par0262	And Diyarbakir is bored with you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0153par0263	We came in with 5 million votes, we came in with 5 million votes, and we got out of the trunk, just like you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0157par0264	We got 25 million votes.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0153par0265	We didn't use government resources like you did. We didn't have law enforcement, we didn't have police, we didn't have soldiers. We didn't go everywhere in armored cars, but people voted in those crates at the risk of death.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0158par0267	They voted for your fear.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0159par0268	Thank you, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0160par0269	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0159par0270	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0160par0271	Mr. President, the speaker said that we're going to be overwhelmed by massacre policies, that we're even staying, that these policies are our policies.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0159par0272	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0160par0276	Mr. President, dear friends, the public knows who committed the massacre.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0161par0277	We think he knows it very well.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0160par0278	The public gives the answer to all of this in the field, and when the chest is placed, they will answer. The terrorists are the ones who did the massacre. Not a word comes out of your mouth about those terrorists, not a single review. You're not saying one word against those terrorists. These people know who are responsible for those people's deaths, and they know who are responsible for the death of the martyrs. You can't keep the public's truth out of sight with such puns, such as democracy adornment, and in the language of propaganda. The policies of the EC PARTY are clear. THE policy of the EC PARTY is to answer this country, the people, the people in this country, when there is a challenge to public safety. That's what AK PARTY does. Against terrorism, it's the state's way of fighting for the public's safety, of course for the public's safety. The underlying ones are the ones who evaluate these things with the language of terror. We respect everyone, anyone who has a vote, anyone who has a vote from the nation. You're also talking about respect for the law in the issue of immunity.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0162par0281	You respect it by attacking.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0160par0282	There's nothing outside the law, nothing outside the law.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0163par0283	Of course not. Majority law.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0160par0284	Every day you talk about living, execution, judgment, there's nothing to fear from judgment. If people have gone to trial, as far as the files are concerned, there's no problem, there's no problem, there's nothing to worry about, there's nothing to worry about except the law.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0164par0285	Which law?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0160par0286	There are no steps taken outside the law, all within the law. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0165par0289	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0166par0290	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0165par0291	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0166par0292	The speech of Mr. Bostanci is in fact a challenge to our group from beginning to end. So, since we're talking in terror, it says that we're expressing the exact opposite of what we're saying is illegal or illegal, why we're explaining our reasons. It's all about bullying our group, and I demand a say in 69.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0165par0293	He said we spoke in terror, Mr. Bostanci. You say.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0166par0294	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0165par0295	That's why you want the word.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0166par0296	Obviously, there's a tease.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0165par0297	Here you go, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0166par0298	There's no such thing. I mean, if telling the truth...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0165par0299	Kim, are you going to talk to him?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0166par0300	Miss Sibel will speak.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0165par0301	Here you go, Mr. Heroalp. Please use this response in a way that does not challenge a new taunt.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0167par0304	Let those who speak to us in the language of terror first look to the church. 20 people died, and you still say, "Rocket has fallen." You say, "Rocket has fallen." Is it a rocket launcher, a toy, or a ball drop? Even here you yourself... can you imagine that there's an explosive, bombs are being dropped, 20 people have lost their lives, and the governor of that place says: "Don't go out without Abdest." Is that so? Is that the way to look at it? Come on, you've abandoned the Kurdistan, so why are you doing this to the Church?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0168par0305	Every square meter of the Republic of Turkey is ours.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0169par0306	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0167par0307	What you've done to the church is a major terrorism.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0169par0308	The Kurds don't want that!
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0167par0309	Five million people have determined what the Kurds want, not you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0169par0310	Kurds don't want anything called Kurdistan.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0167par0311	5 million people, 5 million people voted for HDP.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0169par0312	Get off the Kurds!
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0167par0313	You have a responsibility to respect the will of these 5 million people, you have to hear it.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0169par0314	The Kurds don't want you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0167par0315	The real Kurds didn't want you. He didn't vote for you because he didn't want to. So you didn't get it in Diyarbakır, so you didn't get it in Şırnak, so you didn't get it in Mardin. Since you couldn't get it, you don't even want us to make a statement here today on immunity. Because we're the ones who exposed and deciphered your dirty policies. You can't accept it because it's us today, and if it wasn't for us, you'd be bringing home all kinds of easy roses, but there's us, and we'll always be.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0170par0316	We're not going to change our union and our union.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0167par0317	We will, we will sing about your dirty, murderous policies, your policies that kill every day, all the time, everywhere, on every platform. Rest assured, we have no qualms about it, we're clear everywhere. We stand up straight, we stand up straight, we stand up straight all the time, no one can doubt that. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0171par0319	Thank you, Mr. Heroalp. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 10 has been accepted. There is a motion on Article 11 that I read the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the 11th article of the Common Law Bill of 277 rows, mentioned in Article (1), shall be changed as the history of the declaration. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Müslüm Doğan Behcet Yıldırım Alican Önlü Mehmet Ali Aslan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0172par0333	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0171par0334	Government?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0173par0335	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0171par0336	Mehmet Ali Aslan Batman MP wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lion.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0174par0339	Mr. President, Mr. Court, I salute the General Assembly. First of all, happy Mirac Night, may it bring blessings, peace, peace, brotherhood. For Mirac, the inventor of the century, Leyle-i Mirac, is in the rule of a second Leyle-i Kadir. He said, "This night, as long as possible, the profit will suddenly rise to a thousand." He said, "The title of the prophet (AS/TK) is the pinnacle of his life." I was going to mention immunity, actually, but while Mr. Secretary is here, I'm going to ask the Minister for a request from the public to resolve a matter. But this principle, this norm, it just feels so wrong. The immunity of opposition parties is strictly against rights and the law for another group to be put at the mercy of another group, which has been challenged as a political opponent. In particular, the removal of immunity from opposition parties can not be equitable with rights to be put to a ruling party, to a vote. If that happens, the authorities will use it as a means of blackmail to crush the constant opposition, to keep pressure on it. He has serious problems in villages such as Estel, Derzbine, Keferhuvar, Kefürrürleb, Şazbah, Epshe, Kınderip, Hebsunes, Barbunis, Kardin, Salah, Kerşef, Dalin, Déşeh, and Rîsh, in villages. So, when Tapu Kadastro entered the area, a large number of people were handed over to a lot of gardens, fields, land treasures from our ancestors, because they were illiterate, because the people there weren't ready. These problems are not only limited to Mardin and Batman. There are these problems in every region of Turkey, and hundreds of thousands of people are still victims, but because time has passed and many real estate owners have realized it years later, legally, the land is being auctioned off, and the land that belongs to the individual is being sold by auction, and the vineyards, gardens, fields, fields are being unfairly drawn, sold, or sold to land mafias, or given a huge loss to those who have the rights. Before June 7th, in the elections, the Governor of Mardin and Midyat Kaycam, for example, we will go to Sadırlı district, Derzbine district, and, I promise, we will solve your problem after the election. But this problem is still not solved. For this problem to be resolved, either there must be a legal decree or a amendment. Just as this government has returned or returned the rights of non-Muslims, non-Muslims, non-Muslims or non-Muslims in some way since 1936, the harm done by our people who were victims in this way must be removed, too. For this month of recep, for the sake of this Miraç Kandili, please solve this problem of our people immediately, because the murders stem from it can be committed. When the land inherited from his grandfather, from the Ottoman era, was sold to someone else, blood feuds could arise. The village of the wise is the most concrete example, and the massacre of the village of the wise is based on the problems of the land cadastro. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit03spe0175par0347	Thank you, Mr. Lion. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 11th article is accepted. I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit04spe0175par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 277. The commission is in place. The government is in place. There are two motions on the temporary item one, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "a month" declarations in the interim article (4) of Law Bill 277 rows under discussion should be changed to "15 days." İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Müslüm Doğan Behçet Yıldırım Alican Önlü Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Now I'm going to read the other motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the interim Article 1 of the Common Law Bill 277 rows be changed in the following way. With all due respect. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Nuri Okutan Kadir Koçdemir Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Interim Article 1-1 (1) The regulations envisioned in this Law will be issued within five months of the date of the publication of this Law. (2) The sentence of the first joke of Article 8 (b) does not apply to pre-research and/or disciplinary investigations launched prior to the fact that the joke is in effect. (3) Work and operations to create the infrastructure of the central registration system are launched from the date of the publication of this Law. (4) Candidates to be offered between teachers and free lawyers will be announced to the Prime Minister within a month of the date of the publication of this Law by the Justice and Internal Affairs ministers. The Commission shall hold its first meeting with the Council of Ministers on a date set by the President in a month following the declaration of the membership election to the Ministry. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit04spe0176par0026	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit04spe0175par0027	Government?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit04spe0177par0028	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit04spe0175par0029	Ahmet Selim Yurdakul, Antalya MP who wants to talk about the motion. Mr. Yurdakul? No. Reason: The "six months" in Article (1) of the interim article on the adoption provisions of the bill has been changed to "five months." Since the full implementation of the arrangement depends on regulations, this period has been moved up by a month to five months. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "a month" declarations in the interim article (4) of Law Bill 277 rows under discussion should be changed to "15 days." Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan (Van) and her friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit04spe0178par0039	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit04spe0175par0040	Government?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit04spe0179par0041	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit04spe0175par0042	It's Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan, Van MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit04spe0180par0045	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, I have taken a pledge on the interim clause of the Law Bill on the Building of the Kollik Watch Commission and Making Changes in Some Laws. Perhaps we are faced with a bill that deals with basic rights and freedoms again during the most intense period of human rights violations in the history of Turkey, but, of course, since 2010, this bill, which has been heated and heated and brought to parliament, is not to prevent existing rights violations, but rather to negotiate human rights and human dignity. Human rights advocates have been particularly demanding for years that an independent surveillance mechanism be created so that torture and right-of-life violations that the armada has committed will be investigated effectively and not punished. Unfortunately, in recent months, the bill has been passed from Parliament in succession, which directly concerns human rights -- as in all laws -- and will also embarrass and almost regret the demands of human rights advocates. When it comes to rights violations caused by law enforcement and armbands, I think everyone can talk on this stand for hours. What you're saying is that people who have been killed in months of curfews both in Parliament and out of Parliament, who have been killed in months of curfews, the people who have been tortured by the police, the police violence that everyone who is opposed to power and has experienced at least once, the women who have been harassed by the police -- as you can see very closely, and as you well know, we can't end up counting these rights violations on the arm during the AKP's rule. We see that basic rights and freedoms have been put on the shelf and that law enforcement has increased categorically due to security policies, and we're alive. In addition, assurances to the arm that the power has promised no punishment have become increasingly dangerous. We've spoken from this stand many times. Today, I'm going to give you a very close example, a case in Istanbul. On 1 May, Nail Mavus, who wanted to cross the street on Tarlbaş Boulevard in İstanbul, died from the impact of TOMA. In normal countries where trust in law enforcement is being established, this may seem like an accident, but Turkey remains a long way from that line of normality. And today, there's been a story about how this incident is abnormally and wanted to be shut down without being investigated. According to the statement of the brother of Nail Mavush, who lost his life, police at the scene added a statement to the report that TOMA had struck Mavush (Mavush) during the demonstration. Upon the plaintiff's attention and the prosecutor's warning, this statement was removed from the title, but this brief note tells us a lot. It is clear that the police, who mistook the statement, wanted to reduce the responsibility of their colleague and, if he had participated in the May 1st actions, would not have been a problem just to crush him with TOMA. Even in the future, he would have received a prize of superior service. Dear lawmakers, this is not a simple and isolated event that can only be explained by the police's occupation; rather, it is a sign of tradition. The police had their backs on the government so much that when they killed the opposition and the participants in the demonstrations, they were so convinced that the government would protect them that the report was wrong. With the government's law enforcement tradition that we're discussing today, you're going to prevent the violations of the rights caused by the police by the naive, fully dependent, highly ineffective commission of the government? A new suit of armor would have been provided in the armband. As I put an end to my remarks, I would like to point out that this bill, which has been prepared to meet conditions in the visa negotiations with the EU, will have nothing to do with the removal of armor brought to law enforcement officers, has nothing to do with us. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit04spe0181par0054	Thank you, Ertan. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit04spe0182par0056	Mr. President, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit04spe0181par0057	I'll call the number of decisions, the number of decisions I need. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0181par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of Van MP Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan and his friends had not been reached in sufficient number of decisions. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. We'll continue the talks of Bill 277. The commission is in place. The government is in place. I submit to your votes the temporary article 1: those who accept... those who refuse... temporary matter 1 is accepted. There are three motions on Article 12: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "judgments" (b) of Article 12 of Law Bill 277 which is in session be changed to "governments." İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Müslüm Doğan Behçet Yıldırım Alican Önlü Gülser Yıldırım Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the clause (a) in Article 12 of the Law Charter (a) shall be removed from the text of matter. Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Hayati Tekin Murat Minister Tanju Özcan Mahmoud Tanal Onursal Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 12th amendment of Law Bill 277, which is currently in session, should be changed in the following way. With all due respect. İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Nuri Okutan Kadir Koçdemir Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Article 12 - (1) Of this Law; A) nine months after the release of the 7th Article, B) The release of other provisions will take effect in the date of its release. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0183par0035	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0181par0036	Government?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0184par0037	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0181par0038	Ahmet Selim Yurdakul, Antalya MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0185par0041	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, my fellow citizens, first of all, I congratulate the Miraç Kandili, of the Turkish Islamic world. The law establishes a unit under the name of the Lawkeepers' Watch Commission. The most important way to achieve good and true is through control and inspection. However, if the control and control function is restricted or exposed to external interference, this unit will lose its purpose in the first place. The law enforcement force is one of our country's most intense employees, and despite vital risks, our country's most dedicated friends. Our devoted sons, affected by difficult tasks and stressful working environments, are under periodary political pressure. We've seen over and over again how those elected political identityists and those appointed to serve their subordinates without questioning their orders and who have appointed their subordinates to do so. Just yesterday, I remember the headlines that hurt the Turkish nation deeply: the son of the deputy of the AKP PARTY has lined up the cops. Justice and Development Party (AKP) members who lined the police up, were fined, police were sentenced. We read and watched many statements on the news, such as these. If the AKP government wants to create an inspection and control process with this bill, it must first provide a self-control and turn to look at it. We want the state of law and transparency under this roof. We are concerned that the AKP government, which sees politics as an al-takke-tak-tah-tah-tah mechanism and has internalized the pressure to the end, will even conduct its relations with the European Union within the scope of negotiations. Our country's interests are above all else. We can't ignore the interests of our country just because we get a simple visa exemption. The AKP's government must immediately inform our Parliament on the demands asked for the European Union visa. For example, by ignoring the Turkish presence of the Turkish Cypriot, who we have martyred for, the Turkish Cypriot, you should explain to the great Turkish nation whether or not a AKP minister should recognize the Turkish Republic under the name of the Cypriot republic, or if any decision has been made in the recent Council of Ministers in Fivetepe. Also, as the AKP government, for visa exemption, you must explain whether you will issue a visa requirement in accordance with the demands of the European Union for entering our brothers from Azerbaijan, who we consider one nation, two states, who are always with us for better or for worse. However, I'm simply curious how you're going to evaluate the GRECO decisions in order to join the Anti-Corruption Group, another condition for visa exemption. I personally look forward to this establishment that creates and oversees some ethical code of relations between politics and the political and business world. We represent 79 million here. Tell us how you stand for the rights of our country, but don't say that what you're saying here is "ak" out there. Just tell our people the truth, that's what we want you to do. You're trying to bring up the dissolution of secularism and the first four amendments of our Constitution under all the casualties and threats. I ask you clearly in front of all our citizens: Are you uncomfortable with secularism, from the republic, from the Istlical Anthem, from the capital of Ankara, from the indivisible integrity of our state and from the Turkish language?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0186par0050	We're not.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0185par0051	Stop walking in the shadows, stop speaking in veils, and go out and make your intentions clear to the Turkish nation. I offer my love and respect.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0187par0054	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the clause (a) in Article 12 of the Law Charter (a) shall be removed from the text of matter. Tanju Özcan (Bolu) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0188par0061	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0187par0062	Government?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0189par0063	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0187par0064	Mahmut Tanal wants to talk about the motion, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Tanal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Tanal, you're late for the stand today, sir. We were expecting you earlier.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0190par0068	Well, thank you, Mr. President. Dear President, dear lawmakers, of course, the bill of law on the establishment of the Council of Watch Commission... first of all, I'd like to give you some information on the rights of law enforcement members in the police force. The Republican People's Party's proposal in the elections and its position in the election programme at the same time: it was the addition of its co-operation to 3,600, but the political power made 3000. The difference in salaries here is 56 euros for the price of retired law enforcement members. Dear friends, for fifty-five days police officers have been working all over Turkey 12 times 12 which means 12 hours. At a meeting held at Ankara Security Directorate on this matter, a branch director tells the Ankara Police Commissioner: "When will we get out of working for 12 hours and return to normal, routine work?," they tell the branch manager: "Please do not attend this meeting again." And continue, the same police chief is traveling in Ankara, changing clothes and giving information to the press, and a police officer -- stopping this on the road. When he stopped, he wanted the documents, put $100 in between when he wanted the documents. And this police officer is filing a report for not taking this bribe. They've assigned this officer there now. Dear friends, after you offer the bribe, your title, your office -- the president, the minister, the president -- no matter what, the Criminal Code has committed a crime here now. Why isn't this police officer being processed when he's pressing charges against the person involved? It's actually the police commissioner who committed the crime, not the traffic cop who's a poor kid. You said, "Sir, in December 17th-25th, this group of Fethullah Gulen infiltrated the police force, there was a structure, a parallel security was established." At the moment, there are two congregations in the Police Department -- one of them is the Range Group, and the other is the Reader Group. Right now, who's doing the job of transfer and promotion without merit within the Police Department? Without a reference from the Range Congregation, there are no transfers or promotions in law enforcement. In a country where there is a secular law state, there are no congregations, there are no congregation structures; that is against the law. The state is governed by merit.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0191par0075	Are you defending him?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0190par0076	In the state, sir, there is no Order of the Range, no Reader, no Sir Alexanderpaşa, sir, no Fethullah Gülen... And, my friends, why did you deliver this country to these congregations? Why are you paying?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0191par0077	Are you defending him?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0190par0078	My dear brothers, defend the law, do not seek refuge in the congregations. There should be a port of law where you can take shelter. There should be no shelter, no illegal congregations, no illegal structures.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0192par0079	We're taking shelter, people!
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0190par0080	My dear brothers and sisters, the AKP's ruling group A is here to escape and take refuge in the port of the B congregation, out of the B congregation, and into the port of the C congregation.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0192par0081	We're taking shelter, people!
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0190par0082	My dear brothers, Mr. Minister, look, a complex is being assigned there in Malatya City today, the Ataturk poster is being closed, the Shariat constitution is being requested; this is being done in Malatya, Turkey of 2016. I beg of you, please proceed to these events. Look, here's the Parliament Speaker's principle of secularism that should be removed from the Constitution. He said, "It hasn't been three days, we see the practice of this practice now." Please, we beg of you, we ask you to take care of these matters. My dear friends, Turkey's cement is a secular law state. The link between our country and our citizens is the secular law state. The cement of peace and peace is the secular law state. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0193par0086	Mahmoud, who do you often visit in prison?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0194par0087	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 12 of Law Bill 277 be changed to the terms of the decree passed by me (1) (b). Gülser Yıldırım (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0195par0094	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0194par0095	Government?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0196par0096	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0194par0097	Gülser Yıldırım, Mardin MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0197par0100	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers for Bill 277. But today, because Miraç is a Kandili, I sincerely congratulate all true believers, true Muslims from here, the Miraç Kandili, the cause of equality, freedom, and peace for our peoples. Now, while we're talking here, I still feel the need to speak in this Parliament once again that Nusaybin and Şırnak were beaten with tanks and cannons. On the one hand, while we boast about opening our arms, our country's lands to immigrants from Syria, while we boast about building shelters, camps for them, while we try to share and praise ourselves with this world, on the other hand, we have left thousands of our people homeless from Cizre, Şırnak, Silopi, Cizre, Gever, and many others from their homes to migrate to their homes. It's the government's law enforcement, its army, its own.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0198par0104	Why?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0197par0105	Another issue: We are dealing with a Parliament that doesn't really feel all about it -- unfortunately, we've said this before. Look, you guys talk about terror all the time here. Even though many countries in the world are now aware of what a barbaric, inhuman organization ISIS is, and have been united against it... I also want to remind you. Look, when the coalition forces were united against ISIS in the Kobani process, let me remind you of a statement from the President, what did he say about ISIS: "O world, you are so interested in ISIS, what is it that you are inclined to do in the name of ISIS, the State of Islam?" Integrating ISIS with Islam is the president's own word, and let us remind you of that.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0199par0108	If you'd like to discuss the motion, you've been promised the motion.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0197par0109	If today ISIS attacks these people with mortars, rocket launchers, slaughtering civilians, especially the partnership of the AKP government, the support of ISIS, is the result of blinding them. If the people of Turkey are facing the massacre of their civilian people by shelling, cannons, tanks, rocket launchers, the first plague is on the neck of the AKP government. Just as the massacre of those civilians in the Kurdistan districts today, if the destruction of those houses is a yoke on your neck, and you have a responsibility to history, and you will be obliged to give it to both God and the law and the law...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0200par0110	Curse terror, terror.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0197par0111	...and all these massacres, deaths, and shit that ISIS has committed today are something you must answer for with your tolerance for ISIS.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0201par0112	Can you say one word about the PKK?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0197par0113	Because it is the AKP government that has sold ISIS to the people as an Islamic representative. In the name of Islam, the one who imposed terrorism on this country, the one who encouraged these people to...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0202par0114	It has nothing to do with Islam. They are terrorists. Damn them like all terrorists!
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0201par0115	Do you say anything to the PKK! Are you saying anything to the PKK, Congressman?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0203par0116	Congressmans, please, sir, listen to the speaker.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0204par0117	... and it is your policies that put that wannabe in this society under the name of Islam. Just as you're trying to suppress a people's demands with terrorism, if you're trying to suppress them under that name, you've given ISIS so much power, so much power to ISIS under the name of Islam, you've given them materials, you've given them weapons.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0205par0118	ISIS is being fought.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0204par0119	As we stood at those borders, we all observed and witnessed what a partnership you had with ISIS. My respects, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0205par0122	A thousand ISIS terrorists have been killed. We're fighting the PKK and we're fighting ISIS.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0206par0123	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0207par0125	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0206par0126	Mr. Incescuz...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0207par0127	Mr. President, in his oratory speech, he's just made a clear taunt of our group in order to say that our policies are responsible for all civilian deaths there. I demand word according to 69.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0206par0128	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0207par0132	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have just tried to say something while listening to the preacher's speech, but he's read something, listened to something, but it's important to know that he's actually read something backwards. Now, we feel the need to correct that reverse reading. In his speech, he spoke of what Mr. President said about ISIS. That's exactly where he read this part backwards, got it backwards, twisted the truth in a way he never did. Look, in 2013, we specifically stated that ISIS, DEAŞ, is a terrorist organization and that your terrorist organization is not my terrorist organization; the terrorist organization is a terrorist organization. We said, and we made it clear that we are equal distances from all terrorist organizations. Look, I'll tell you where you understand backwards: there's peace in the word Islam, and it's not being used together by Islam and the terrorist organization. And I advise you again and again to take this sentence and read it over and over and over again, saying that we are clearly and clearly at the same distance to all terrorist organizations, saying that we are at the same distance. However, there is only one person responsible for the deaths in the east, the southeast, the migrations. So, with perceptions, distorting the facts, by taking the public's support from this platform, you must express the needs and demands of our nation from which you have received the support of 5 million people; do not come to this stand and be a spokesman for the terrorist organization. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0208par0138	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0209par0139	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0208par0140	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0210par0141	You are the one who feeds him.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0209par0142	Mr. President, I'd like to introduce us to the people's demands by acting as a spokesman for the terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0208par0143	Here you go, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0211par0144	Do you know that four rockets fell on the church?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0212par0145	Is he going to defend the PKK now, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0213par0146	Don't be a spokesman for the terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0214par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we understand everything correctly and speak it correctly. Actually, you're the ones who want to read it backwards. Because you've always expressed everything in twists. Who took the trucks that Can Dündar and Erdem Gül had uncovered? The Deputy Prime Minister explained, yes, we helped ISIS, we'll help him. Who did he say he was? Let's put the Deputy Prime Minister's statement right here. By not allowing prosecutors to question the president in the trucks, who took those prosecutors out of office and sent them into exile?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0215par0151	Who was it?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0214par0152	At the moment, ISIS has released the footage of the tanks in Turkey being shot at and bombed by the tanks in the church on all social media. More than 20 people were slaughtered there, and so many of us were injured. Why is it that ISIS made these wounded people in the church, but the government is silent? Why are you still sticking up for this? So why didn't you prevent the Diyarbakir bomber from setting off a bomb at the HDP rally with information from nine days ago? Why were people slaughtered there? Again, in the same way, let's make it very clear that if you were worthy of the word Islam, if only you had a practice worthy of that word and peace, we would have come out of here and made it clear. If only you were worthy of peace and Islam.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0216par0155	You continue to defend the PKK.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0214par0156	I celebrate again from here the Miraç Kandili of all our people.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0217par0157	Everyone heard you sing the terror anthems. Everyone knows what happened.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0214par0158	I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0218par0160	Thank you, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0219par0161	Mr. President, I'm just saying, for the record only. Our stand against terrorist organizations is very clear and clear as our stance, the AK PARTY government and its governments.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0220par0162	Yeah. You don't know how to say ISIS. You're saying he fell to the Church.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0219par0163	Let them stand the same distance against the PKK terror organization themselves.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0221par0165	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0222par0166	President...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0221par0167	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0222par0168	I'll put it on the record.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0223par0169	The PKK is a terrorist organization. Are you going to say that? Here you are: ISIS is a terrorist organization. You say it's a PKK terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0224par0170	Yeah, the whole world says it's a terrorist organization. What if they tell you, or they don't?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0222par0171	I mean, it's just, it's like there's another party in power besides the AKP government, and another party in power is making opposition parties, and he's throwing everything at them, trying to expose himself like a milkman. You're in power and you can't solve problems. You've turned this country into a bloodbath. I'd like to express that for the record.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0225par0174	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. It's in the transcripts. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 12th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 13: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Council of Ministers, under Article 13 of the Charter on the Establishment of Laws and Changes in Some Laws, shall act as the Minister of Internal Affairs, and shall propose that the declaration be changed by the Minister of Internal Affairs. Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Hayati Tekin Murat Minister Tanju Özcan Mahmoud Tanal Onursal Now, I'm going to read and process the second and most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the Council of Ministers shall be changed by the Council of Ministers to carry out the provisions of these laws, which shall be carried out by the Council of Ministers. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Müslüm Doğan Behcet Yıldırım Alican Ödri Yıldırım Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0226par0196	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0225par0197	Government?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0227par0198	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0225par0199	It's Kadir Yıldırım who wants to talk to you about the motion, the Siirt MP. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0228par0202	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I begin my words, I wish that the entire Islamic world would be a source of peace and quiet for the Miraç Kandili. Of course, when it comes to law enforcement forces on a national basis, it's not just the law enforcement forces on a national basis, but the international law enforcement forces, I think, need to be considered in this context. I'm trying to put it this way: A few days ago, representatives of more or less 56 countries attended the meeting of the Islamic Co-operation Organization in Istanbul, and 34 of those 56 countries -- including Turkey -- offered to form a joint Islamic army against extremism and terrorism, and it was sort of decided. In his speech there, Mr. President, instead of taking care of our issues, let the members of this Islamic Co-operation Agency handle it, let's take care of it ourselves. He said something. I would like to point out in particular that when you look at the representatives of 34 countries in this organization, when you look at the progress of all of them, you will see that none of them are capable of solving a problem that arises in the Islamic countries. It's half a century, which is obvious as there is a Palestinian problem, for as long as there's a Kurdish problem. These countries have not solved the smallest of these two crucial problems. And then when we look at them, they're meant to create an army against extremes, but look at Saudi Arabia, where the rule of the kingdom itself is a representative of an extremist -- I mean here -- and this is an extreme movement of Ali, the Hazreti Hussein, and the enemy of Shia. With these, there's no distance Turkey can take. At the point of solving the Palestinian problem with these, there is not a single step that Turkey can take at the point of resolving the Kurdish problem. If that were the case, they'd drag Turkey into a disaster as well. Look at their fortunes. Someone has five private planes, the Sultan of Brunei, and these five private planes are covered in gold. The Sultan has $22 billion in wealth, his personal fortune. With these sultans, you will solve the internal affairs of the Islamic world? That's not possible.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0229par0206	Are you going to solve it with the British ambassador or with the British? You're going to solve it with the Pentagon?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0228par0207	Then you can only solve the Palestinian problem, the Kurdish problem, with representatives of those peoples. If you guide the representatives of those people from here to the mountain, you will never, ever be able to solve these problems for the rest of your life. You should know very well that if you hesitate to solve this problem with representatives of these peoples, there is no distance between you and the next generation of representatives. Look, what our Parliament Speaker recently said when he opened the House: "Gazi Parliament." I'm sorry, but it was called the world's first Veteran Assembly. I'm sorry, but I think we're going to renew this title, if he doesn't come to his senses. So if this Congress, the first Veteran Assembly in the world, continues like this, then the Veterans will become the Veterans.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0230par0209	Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0228par0210	We've seen this House become a veteran three times this week. In order for this coven not to be a martyr's coven, everyone needs to come to their senses. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Otherwise, yelling at the people here is not the answer to the matter. For it is known that those who go to the mountain will never return. Let's get this straight, if we're looking for a Muslim solution, let's sit down with us and figure it out. I'm gonna say it one more time, make up your minds!
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0231par0214	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0228par0215	Whether you like it or not, that's the way it is. There's no Palestinian problem in Saudi Arabia that you can solve with the Brunei sultans, there's no Kurdish problem, but we can solve it for us. Suit yourself. Thanks.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0231par0217	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0232par0221	We have a roll call.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0231par0222	There's a roll call. I'll grant the roll call. Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Taşdemir, Mr. Dora, Mr. Irgat, Mr. Todıyaman, Mr. Adıyaman, Mr. Yildıalp, Mr. Gaydalı, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Atash, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Zaydan, Mr. Ocalan, Mr. Skillekli, Mr. Bilgen. Initiating roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Council of Ministers shall conduct its declaration by the Minister of Internal Affairs. We offer it to be replaced as the Minister of Internal Affairs. Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya (Bartin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0233par0237	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0231par0238	Government?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0234par0239	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0235par0240	Motive...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0231par0241	I'm reading the reason: In order to make the bill in line with the law-making technique, this motion has been made. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 13 is accepted. Thus, the negotiations of the bill are complete. Before we vote on the bill, we have two members of parliament demanding the color of the game in accordance with Article 86 of the Civil Code. I'll make a promise by inviting them to the stand. First speaker, Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Yel. Here you go, Mr. Yel.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0236par0251	Mr. President, my esteemed lawmakers, I have made a pledge in favor of the Commission for Armistice Protection 277 rows and the Bill of Laws to Change Some Laws. As we salute your grand delegation, I ask that the Miraç Kandili, which we first understood, bring blessings to the entire Islamic world, with mercy and gratitude to our heroic martyrs. As it is known, at the beginning of the most important tasks and functions of governments is to ensure the safety of their citizens and ensure that they live as free individuals. In the execution of these functions, the primary institutions are law enforcement units. As law enforcement officers offer this service, they are equipped with a number of powers that other public servants do not have. Laws such as search, abuse, restrictions on freedom are examples of this scope. The use of such important powers makes law enforcement officers open to more complaints than other public officials. Our country has declared with zero tolerance for torture that will never be tolerated against the torture and abuse of law enforcement activities that may occur. Special units have been established within the headquarters General Command and Security Directorate Investigation Board for the alleged human rights violations of law enforcement have taken important steps to investigate the alleged violations effectively. Following legal amendments to EU integration laws and legal changes in previous years, allegations of significant human rights violations of law enforcement and the investigations of corruption have been carried out directly by independent republic prosecutors, and the administrative permit to conduct judicial investigations has been eliminated from the scope of these crimes. Mr. President, valued MPs, this bill is the first time the central registration system has been brought to Turkey. There is no effective complaint, recording and analysis of complaints about law enforcement in our country. Creating the right policies with current data is not possible to properly identify problems. There are no such standards in our country as to the complaint record, and there is no such dissolution among law enforcement agencies. This is an important weakness of our complaining system, and the current data on complaints about law enforcement is unhealthy and unsubstantiated. The bill therefore envisions establishing a central registration system, which envisions registering complaints and complaints about police officers in the General Command, Security General Directorate and Coast Guard Command, as well as creating an information system and a statistical system. The central registration system represents the database of information on administrative and disciplinary procedures conducted against law enforcement officers between law enforcement commissions, associations, governorships and subsidiaries for the purposes of recording and monitoring practices. The main purpose of establishing a central registration system is to enable control of administrative procedures related to reports and complaints, to enable surveillance of the complaint system in general, to establish a standard registration and analysis system among law enforcement agencies, and to enable the activation of law enforcement and law enforcement services with the help of information related to complaints and reports. An effective complaint registration system can only be established with the presence of healthy data. Thus, the creation of a central record and analysis system is expected to form the nirgen point of the new complaint system. The operation of the complaint registration and analysis system will be provided through an information processing network between the district, district and ministry headquarters. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, this legal arrangement is important for the public and law enforcement to increase their confidence in the complaint system. I wish this law to all our law enforcement and our nation to be blessed and fortunate, that I will vote in favor of the law when I end my promises, and I salute our great House.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0237par0257	Thank you, Mr. Yel. Against İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0238par0261	Give it up for power tonight, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0239par0262	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, of course, it's not the measure of receiving applause from power; if power comes within the limits of the law, I always applaud them and I always salute them with respect. The important thing is to be able to stand within the legal patterns, my dear President. So we, the Republican People's Party, have always looked at people's philosophical thinking, political thinking, religion, religion, language, regardless of the law. Dear friends, yes, if the countries of the European Union do not allow the visa issue, the Republican People's Party in Parliament has opposed or the other political groups have opposed us, so they won't give us the visa, and three opposition parties will be responsible. As far as we can see, if there really is a visa, if the visa is up... it's as if our citizens have plenty of money, waiting in line, going to travel to European countries. For that reason, we, yes, have always made offers, because this law is inadequate, but it's not enough, you haven't accepted them. But while we were talking about the cops here, some of our friends were talking, and I'm asking you, look, there's gonna be another operation here. What is this? The purges within the force will begin. What about the liquidation here? Sir, are you close to the range group, the reader group, close to the Fethullah group? Dear friends, do this according to merit. I'm speaking to the Ankara Police Commissioner, I'm speaking to the Chief of Police, I'm calling to the Home Secretary: Police officers, do not hand over all other public institutions to the congregations. Dear friends, always our late Lütfi Duran teacher had a doctoral thesis on merit, the basis of merit in public institutions. It's like the principle of merit has been removed from the Law of State Officers No. 657, and it's going completely with a community index. These congregation configurations are indeed dynamite that is placed beneath the country. I ask that these congregations be cut off from power. Did you or did you not just help the light? The debate broke out. Dear friends, I'm showing you the news of the newspaper today. What does a law enforcement officer say? The police officer's own statement: "For months we have kept watch in the building where the people are being treated. "
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0240par0268	What paper? Show me, show me the paper.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0241par0269	The English newspaper?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0239par0270	Dear friends, look, the law enforcement officer who declared this here says, "The truth is, these ISIS people are here and we're on guard duty." The law enforcement officer is so offended that he's right to... Now, you've just said: "No sir, we have nothing to do with ISIS." If your heart is enough, you've just banished four prosecutors while you were speaking. They didn't banish four prosecutors, Mr. Orator, four prosecutors are currently in prison. If your heart is strong enough, make sure that the confidentiality decision is lifted, and the public will know who sent weapons to ISIS with terror organizations. Loud and clear. (CHEERING) What are you afraid of? If you don't have a cover job, if you don't have a dirty relationship, if you're clean, if you're clean, if you're not involved in a crime, remove this confidentiality decision. Look, my dear friends, right now all the files that are linked to the ongoing social cases in Turkey are classified, the indirect or direct ties of power to terrorist organizations. Why? Oh, don't let the government reveal their dirty relationship. So I say, if you want your heart, if you have the courage, if you want everything to be transparent, if you want the public to know everything... Dear friends, look, it's the Attorney General who's in prison, who's currently in the government, who's the Undersecretary of Justice at the time. Call the Attorney General himself, brother, and let these trucks pass unregistered. If you don't let us burn, we'll burn you too. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yeah, they burned the prosecutors. Those prosecutors are valuable friends in prison right now. Thank you all, my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0242par0278	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0243par0279	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0242par0280	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0243par0281	Mr. President, since 2013 ISIS has been a terrorist organization for the Republic of Turkey. That's the treatment he gets. On the other hand, he's talking about the court. There may be confidentiality decisions on various occasions in the court, but as a result, the files of the court are open to everyone. Whatever anyone knows, they can talk through those jurisdictional files.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0242par0284	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0244par0285	Mr. President, the secretary is giving false information to the public and to you. Judicial files aren't open to everyone, they have a confidentiality order.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0243par0286	After we get out, after the sentence's over.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0244par0287	Isn't that when the Minister of Justice stepped in? They changed the law for him. There's been a debate about the Minister of Justice. What happened to your Minister of Justice's fezleke in these proceedings?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0245par0288	Thank you, Mr. Tanal, it's been filed. I submit the entire bill to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the bill is accepted and legal. Good luck with that. We will begin talks with Turkey's Constitutional Charter and the Foreign Commission Report, which is part of the 2nd agenda, that the Joint Responsibility Committee, established by Agreement Against the Responsibility of Persons Without Permission between the Republic of Turkey and the European Union, is suitable for ratification of Decision 2/2016. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 298 rows. Now I'm going to meet your demands on the entire bill. First, I'm going to meet the political party groups' commitment demands. First, Erdal Atash, İstanbul MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Paperman.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0246par0300	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as in other legislation, unfortunately, with this bill, one more problem has been added to our country's problems rather than conducting a study on solving the fundamental problems of our country. The two sides of this bill, which has two-way content, form a visa liberalisation, while the main and hidden side of it is the refugee issue. A problem that the European Union and the world cannot solve is on the shoulders of the people of Turkey. Although the government and Prime Minister Kayseri negotiated this issue, they made it clear once again that the people of Turkey, the government that put the people of Turkey on the shoulders of the northern Kurdish people for $3 billion, or $6 billion, are clearly unaware of the issue. Because that's where the Kaisers were trained, where they learned to negotiate, the European capitalists themselves. It should be clear that they will not accept this issue in any way over 3-5 billion or visa liberalisation, unless they are able to get 1.10 to 1.1. The government will always be free of visas, you'll travel. This issue has been resolved. Although it may be expressed in the form of the case, hundreds of issues have been placed on Turkey's shoulders. In this case, there is also an uncertain visa conundrum that remains on the agenda. First of all, we, the HDP, are definitely not against visa liberalisation. On the contrary, we're on the side of lifting borders, we're on the side of people's freedom of travel, we're on the side of removing obstacles, we're on the side of passports. We're in favor of removing all of this. The point we oppose is that one of the world's biggest problems over visa liberalisation is the burden of the people of Turkey's northern Kurdistan. We can, of course, discuss visa issues with any country, there's nothing wrong with that from our point of view. On the contrary, all governments and all bureaucratic sections of this country need to discuss and resolve all these matters. We need to figure out the reasons for the visa issue between us and them, one by one. But the issue that the government has actually put on the backs of the people is certainly not visa liberalisation, but, as I said, the issue of the refugee burden falling on the people in Turkey. In the plan for visa liberalisation, there is a situation that ends with a positive vote on whether the European countries will accept the law that has been established. So it's still unclear whether the refugee issue, perhaps 100 billion, will be released while the people in Turkey will be burdened with the issue of refugees, while visa liberalisation will be released. We are not against the adoption of refugees as HDPs, but as we say, we are against the issue of putting a problem on the back of the people of this country that 30 countries have not been able to handle for years alone. The government has not met with human rights institutions, has not met with professional organisations, has not consulted with them in any way for health, education and so-called organisations, has not done an assessment with political parties, so it has accepted this matter as instructions on their return to our country, and is trying to ensure that Europe will remain silent in some way through the adoption of refugees, through the adoption of these refugees. Refugee policy is not something that can be overcome with such good intentions. Three million came in, we embraced them, two million came in, we took them in. It's not a two-day issue that can be solved with the matter of the matter. It's a problem that can take decades, and if the infrastructure of the country that accepts it isn't compatible with it, it's a problem that will bring, create, and it's a common problem for all of us. In our country, neither laws nor society nor economic infrastructure nor democratic rights nor government are ready for this, but as I said, in this matter, the government has agreed to this policy to conceal the unlawfulness of its rule of office, to allow the EU and other communities to condone it. As the HDP, as I said, we are not opposed to visas or refugee admissions at this point. We are, through these policies, struggling with a major problem that will, inadvertently, destroy the lives of refugees as well as burden the people of this country. It's such a problem that even when we calculate 3 million people, 18 are equivalent to about 200 districts and cities, 10,000 villages. So when many counties have a ton of problems, we don't solve any of them, and we don't even accept their human rights in any way, we bring 3 million people here in prisons, here, 3-5 billion, holding them prisoner, somehow, in this country, we love refugees very much, we open our arms to them. In case of some form of deception, politics are being produced, is being maintained. After ten years, when this 10 million -- this policy will not be over -- it will not be over when the problem in Syria is resolved. In the future, this issue will be transformed into a problem where millions of people are flocking deeper and deeper, where Europe is piling up with its policies. Europe used to keep these people, these refugees, in places like Greece, Bulgaria, Portugal, Spain. In a way, he's now pushing it out of Europe and throwing the present problem over himself. These people are standing before us as a problem that can bring major problems unless the business area, education, health care, housing, cultural problems, and other issues related to demographic structure remain substantially unresolved. The solution to the refugee problem depends on certain criteria, so it's not a criterion issue. It's supposed to be a certain basic infrastructure. First, the war and economic poverty that raises this refugee issue must be eliminated. Secondly, all the world must be involved in this issue, including all of the countries that have somehow uncovered these policies that have caused this. Third, the country that accepts it, if this is our country, the democratic infrastructure of the country that accepts it, the economy, the social infrastructure of this country, has to go ahead of the country that comes from the refugee country. If these haven't been resolved, then a refugee policy, which is the fourth one, which is in line with the international rights of human rights, should be created, as well as guaranteed. Is this in our country? Unfortunately, our country has a policy that can increase its problems three to four times, let alone a small one, as well as a solution to the refugee problem. The entire war policy is supported by this government itself, so under the policy that allows the Syrians to come here for 3 million, the responsibility of this government is essentially at stake. All the organisations there are supported; all the steps that have been taken to resolve the problem are being blocked; there, democratic forces in Syria are being threatened in some way by terrorist attacks that protect their own positions, their own countries, even their own lands, where people in the country are being threatened in some way with invasions and so on. In this ongoing policy, there is twice as much confusion over these supported organisations, so that the Syrian people, who make up most of the refugees, come to this country by the state. The fact that the EU remains silent and surrenders to this policy -- this policy -- in some way -- comes from the issue of total destruction in Turkey. So the presidential system, all of these issues in these Kurdish cities, these antidemocratic practices, these massacres, all of these attacks, is caused by the passing of this policy. That's why the presidents come here and sign the agreements, opening prisons here, such as refugees, and opening prisons called the camp. Again, the government's policy at the point of war is not to solve the problems of those who will cause this migration in the Middle East, but rather, economically, to blow up those areas, to weaken them, and to bring large migrations to this side.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0247par0315	Do you know how many people from Kobani have entered?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0246par0316	And there's nothing to include the cause. So Europe, America, Russia, they're all playing a role there, they're all out there, somehow bringing up this issue with these attacks, bringing up poverty and war, but I'm afraid the government in our country, instead of bringing the responsibilities of those countries into this, instead of bringing them out of this issue, it's pushing them to one side, you're saying, "Give me 3-5 billion, I'll sort of keep these people here with prisons and different policies, and I'll sort it out." This issue is such a big problem that in Europe, as I said, 30 countries can't handle it, can't. Because there's war all over the world, and as a result of this war, millions of people are being taken from their homes, driven out of their own country by economic poverty. The government must immediately conduct this policy with the partners of this matter, and he must reject it. That's the problem with the law in our country. So imagine if the refugees were human, they would come here and demand certain rights. These people also have rights to live, housing, and other matters. But look at the rights in our country, so they all carry the ground of bringing persecution back to those who came. Economic division is at such a level that only 10 per cent of the people of this country receive a share of the economy, which is 90 per cent of the economy. Think about what this government is going to do to refugees who don't have a single 1 percent social share for the people of this country, even for the people of this country. Last time, a preacher said that the amount that Europeans spent on the Syrians in just one year -- not 3-5 million -- was 25 billion for 600, 700,000 populations. Today, there are only 3 million people for 6 billion, which is going to continue, so when the Syrian issue is over, it's not going to happen, so let's keep it from Afghanistan, and we're going to plan to drive all of these people from anywhere in the world to Europe to Turkey, and the government accepts this issue. Not only at this point, but also at this point, think of it this way: language is forbidden in this country, isn't it? It's illegal for people to speak their own language. Ya, Kurds can't speak their language, they can't study their native language. Is this going to be provided to the people who come? No. The beliefs are forbidden, so I'm just saying for the Kurds, the Arabs, all of them, and at the point of faith, these bans continue. Alevis, Crushers, Christians, others, with all these problems, how is it possible for refugees to solve their faith problems here? It's never gonna happen. The government has its own policy on this matter. He's going to try to make money through them by putting them in those camps called the prison, and all inhumane practices -- all of which so far, including the Amnesty -- have been expressed -- have been able to continue this issue through all these unlawfulities, and in fact, accept the policy that Europe has imposed on them. Look at the problems in our geography about the majority of these refugees of women and children, so look at the abuses, look at the injustices against children, again, the violence and other issues against women, look at prostitution, harassment, rape. I mean, including the 3 million that came with all these issues, including all these problems, including sexual violence, which, in ten years, will make it 10 million, and Europe will never give it up. The people who train the Kayseri, who I don't do anything about the Kayseri, may be well-necessary, but unfortunately the government didn't learn from this issue, and in this problem, Europe's... a problem that could take decades, trillions of money, that's the people's money. This problem, where refugees have been victimised and the people have been victimised, has been burdened on the backs of the peoples of Turkey. So this monotheistic mentality, this racist understanding, this anti-democracy, instead of solving all these shortcomings in a geography, it's never acceptable for this country to have a new problem on its back. As I said, even today, there are only 18 people in our country, and 200 towns and cities, and 10,000 villages. So there are problems in the provinces and other parts of our country. We will, of course, accept refugees in this matter, but we need to accept what this country's infrastructure can handle. The rest must be owned by Europe, America, Russia, and all the other world countries. Just as poverty is created in the world, these wars are created, they must bear the burden of it all. The government in this country is supposed to push it, but it's a reverse policy. It's like that in terms of education, and so are other issues. If this isn't done, what's it gonna be? Let me make it clear: First, with the EU turning a blind eye to its own illegalities and the EU putting off a huge burden on us in some way, this is clearly what the government wants to do: first, it's trying to build camps and profit from it. We won't get any profits, we'll get bigger losses. Second, a policy on demographic structure is being carried out. So imagine a place of 2,000 people -- whatever faith the Alevis are having a reaction to, whether it's Sunni or Christian -- when you bring in people from 30,000 different cultures, automatically destroying culture, infrastructure, other issues. So the government's view of these issues is supposed to take it to places of 2,000, where the Alekis are, where there are a lot of concerns, where there have been massacres since then, it's been putting 30,000 people in place, where all the demographic structure and economic infrastructure and cultural structure have been destroyed.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0248par0324	Your mind is corrupt, your mind.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0246par0325	That's the way it is in these matters. In this case, if no measures are taken, the training camps in this country will turn into training camps for organisations, such as ISIS and other organisations, will take these camps into their own hands and look at the ways of recruiting militants around here. Cheap labor is an important danger. Look, one of the biggest things that's going to bring down this country's economy is that it threatens workers as well as the cheap labor force that harms all the other parts of this country, while refugees will be victims and workers of this country will face each other by becoming poor. As long as the government doesn't give up on these policies, it's not just these problems that I'm saying, if he doesn't withdraw his hand from the war, if he doesn't share the problem with the people who created this issue, if he doesn't create a democratic infrastructure that he can actually take as many refugees as he can and treat them as humanly... What's a camp? Camping is what you call an open prison. Camping on Earth isn't about housing, websites; they're open prisons, nothing more. What's going to happen in this country a few years later unless the right refugee policy is created? Let me tell you what's going to happen here as it comes in Europe: first of all, big problems, violence and so on, including intense prostitution, drugs, theft, the deepening of criminal issues, and so on. Second, there will be a heavy economic blow due to cheap labor and poverty over it. Racism and discrimination will increase because when workers and workers don't understand this policy, they don't want to... Lack of education, lack of future, poverty awaits this country, both refugees and our people. At this point, at this point, I mean this government has to move forward with the people who created this problem, as I said, by giving up this issue. Refugees are also human; their housing, their right to choose, joining the democratic structure in this country, as well as providing health, education, transportation, and all rights, can only be achieved by owning the part that can fall into our country's share. I pay my respects, thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0249par0331	Thank you, Mr. Paperman. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0250par0333	In his speech, Mr. Speaker, in a cruel and immoral war right under our noses, the victim, innocent and oppressed, welcomed, shown compassion to 3 million people who took refuge in this geography...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0251par0334	He's given me some money.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0250par0335	...the state that has provided the moral, the law, the human way...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0252par0336	They're all beggars on the streets.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0250par0337	...and, of course, the AK PARTY policies that provide this by defining monogamous, racist policies as prisons where refugees come and stay.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0252par0338	Then don't take any money.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0253par0339	You work for 20 lira a day, don't you?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0254par0340	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0255par0341	...has made a cruel taunt beyond his criticism. In this framework, we demand a word based on 69.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0256par0342	I think there's some irony in that.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0255par0343	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0256par0344	Here you go, I promise.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0255par0345	Mr. Atay will speak, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0256par0346	Here you go. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0257par0350	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, the character we just heard is very confused. In his speech, he said: "Let them not come first. Let us then take as much as we need. We are not interested. After that, we do not give them enough rights." I first say: Let him return and look at HDP's party schedule. Let's remove the geographical boundaries in the party programme. The HDP says, "Let's open all the borders. Let's go."
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0258par0351	He just told me.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0259par0352	You weren't there, he meant all that.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0257par0353	Now, behind him, he says: "Let him come as long as he needs." Look, you guys, there's a cruel regime out there, there's more than a cruel regime, there's more than a PYD, there's more people running away from DEAS, we're opening our doors for all of them.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0260par0355	Wasn't he cruel five years ago? You were easy then.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0257par0356	I'm Ayn Al-Arab, I was in the area with Kobani. We took 170,000 people in one night, we had to take them because bombs were being dropped, people were dying, babies were dying.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0261par0357	You were friends, you were going on vacation together, what happened!
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0257par0358	We didn't say Kurds, we didn't say Ezidi, we didn't look at their religion. Just last week, as the Refugee Commission, we went to Mardin.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0262par0360	When he was Prime Minister, the arm was easy, the Kurds were in the same situation, no different.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0257par0361	We visited Ezidi camp in Mardin, visited Syrian camps. There were all kinds of social opportunities; children were being trained, health care was being provided. We have to. This is our historic, conscientious, legal, human mission.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0263par0362	Hundreds of thousands of refugees on the streets.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0257par0363	An agreement has been reached from the other side.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0263par0364	The streets are full of refugees.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0257par0365	Look, before the agreement, 4,771 people died last year in the Mediterranean, in the Aegean.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0263par0366	You're condemning women to prostitution, do you realize that?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0257par0367	There were babies in these. The baby Aylan died. Didn't your conscience hurt? He moaned.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0264par0368	He's lost from your wrong policies.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0257par0369	We've come to an understanding for him.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0265par0370	Is that why you're negotiating with Kayseri?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0257par0371	After this agreement, every day 6,000 Syrians and 6,000 refugees attempted to pass through the Aegean, the number fell to 100.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0266par0372	You're the one who made Syria this way.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0265par0373	Wasn't it you who negotiated the Kaiser?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0257par0374	People don't die anymore, they don't die; that's the kind of civilization we are, that's the state we are, friends. We have to do this. There are 280,000 people in the camps, 2.5 million Syrians outside the camps.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0265par0376	Where's the other 2.5 million?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0257par0377	There will be peace in Syria, and they will return.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0265par0378	On the streets, on the streets.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0257par0379	We're doing all kinds of work on them right now, and we're going to keep doing it.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0267par0381	Leave the peace in Syria, bring peace to your own country first.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0257par0382	And in that sense, Europe is the last thing we said to Europe: look, this problem is a big problem. Come, let's share the burden. So they went to an 8m-euro division, which happened. We're working on all of this, doing it one by one. Know that these refugees are our brothers. We have to give them every opportunity. I respect all of you.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0268par0385	Thank you, Mr. Atay Goody.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0269par0386	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0268par0387	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0269par0388	At first, we learned from Mr. President of the Group... and from Mr. Bostanci, we learned from him... in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0270par0389	I did the irony, Mrs. Age.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0269par0390	In this cruel taunt and the speaker's speech, without listening to our friend speaking on behalf of the HDP, who has reached the end of his speech, there's an open challenge to our group and our party, and I'd like to speak according to 69.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0271par0391	Mr. Ironel, now...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0269par0392	In the project of the HDP, on its borders...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0271par0393	I mean, can you tell me what sentence he made?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0269par0394	I'll tell you, President, there are limits on the HDP project, but the HDP opposes its project. He expressed that our orator's testimony contradicted our project.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0271par0395	Here you go. You're going to talk?
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0269par0397	Yeah, I'll do the talking.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0271par0398	Here you are, Mr. Ironel. Please, don't challenge a new taunt.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0272par0400	Ma'am, the irony, the irony.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0273par0402	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, as our disciple spoke, the AKP ranks were constantly referred to as "Kobani Kobani" (Kobani). Yes, let those who set a line between Kobani and Suruç consider it. Kobani and Suruç were brothers.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0274par0404	Now you're in cahoots with them.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0273par0405	Take a look at who said, "Kobani has fallen." In the process where the president was waiting for the Prime Minister to fall, ISIS was carrying weapons. Yes, my friends told me that during that time, Kobani fell down. Who were the people who were waiting? In fact, those who looked forward to the fall of Kobani were known to have expressed it at that time. At that time, Kobani went directly, with trucks and weapons, from the border of Turkey to ISIS to the fall of Kobani. Yes, Mr. Mahmut Bey told me, and then what happened? Prosecutors, exiles, arrests... they're still serving their time, journalists are still being tried for exposing it. In other words, it is expressed here as "a thousandth of us," "a thousandth of us," "a thousandth of us," or "a thousandth of us," or "a thousandth of us," or "a thousandth of us," or "a thousandth of us," or "a thousandth of us." Mr. Orator's trying to get to the last minute of the conversation without listening to his head. Listen, then come, answer from the stand, but you're not listening. That's what our speaker speaker said in the first place. We've already been expressing our policy for the removal of borders from the beginning. This also applies to European visas. He expressed that thinking that all boundaries should be eliminated. So if you're taking the hint of bullying, at least stand up for the truth of your word, I give you all my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0275par0413	Thank you, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0276par0414	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0277par0415	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0275par0416	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0276par0419	The President's word is being abused a lot, placed in an unfair and inappropriate context.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0278par0420	The truth, the truth, the President.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0276par0421	At that time... Mrs. Ages will know very well...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0278par0423	I know, I know, I was there.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0276par0424	...how Kobani, who was in a state to fall, survived...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0279par0425	You turned him after that, not at all, but five months later, you gave him that meaning, and when he didn't fall, you said Kobani.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0276par0426	...everyone knows how to support it by going over Turkey, and the world knows it.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0280par0427	The world knows the public, that's right!
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0276par0428	I think it would be a ridiculous policy if we were to send weapons to the ISIS people who attacked Kobani. There's absolutely no such thing. ISIS is a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0281par0430	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0282par0431	ISIS is a terrorist organization, PKK is a terrorist organization, NYD is a terrorist organization, YPG is a terrorist organization!
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0283par0432	Just for the record, Mayor. Your Minister, your Deputy Prime Minister, has gone to ISIS. Who said that? And he went both to Isilah. He said.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0284par0434	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0285par0435	Thank you, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0283par0436	So you're gonna deny it, the President, the Prime Minister, they all stood up and said it. I don't think it's right for a party that's falling down and having a holiday party to come here and reflect in a different way.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0286par0438	There's not a word that's true, it's all a lie, it's all a lie!
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0287par0439	Everyone knows how Kobani was saved, the whole world knows!
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0288par0440	It's in the transcripts. Thank you, Mr. Ironel. On top of the bill on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Gibraltar Özdemir, İstanbul MP... Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0289par0448	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the condition that the Joint Responsibility Committee, established by the Agreement on Responsibility of the People's Absorbiting Persons Between Turkey and the United States of Turkey, which are currently in session, has been approved of its 2/2016 decision. I salute your high council. I will share with you our criticism and warnings regarding the uncertain process between our country and the European Union in terms of the extradition agreement and visa exemption. The reciprocity agreement between Turkey and the European Union aims to be returned to the country under the terms and regulations set in the agreement by those who are unable to provide entry, presence, residence conditions in Turkey or one of the member states in the European Union. On 16 December 2013, Turkey signed a road map document for the European Union's re-entry agreement and visa exemption, but even though Turkey provided all the conditions, it was not connected to a precise schedule of when it would have visa exemptions. This calendar is not as clear today as it was that day. As the negotiations began, the ruling party announced that visa exemption would first be granted the public, and then would sign the re-accession agreement, but both agreements were signed at the same time due to the ruling party's unpredictability in the negotiations process with the European Union, its failure. Moreover, it was agreed by the ruling party at that time that the re-enactment agreement had already been implemented. Dear lawmakers, I want to point out that, given our first application with the European Union for about fifty-three years, 1959, maybe 60 years, this current ruling party is running the last 14 years of our relations. In these 14 years, the government has once again been registered from its foreign policy, which usually leads to compromise with neighbours and zero problems, and especially from its inconsistency with the European Union, and from its failure to bring our country and nation's future to chaos, its national interests. The number of chapters in the European Union's acquish and failure to close the opening chapters are evident in the 14 years in which the government has continued our relations with the European Union alone. A total of 35 chapters were opened in the 2005 accession talks, including 15 chapters, which were temporarily closed in 2006, and no chapters have been closed except for Science and Research Morocco. The current government has not made a step at the point of resolving the Cyprus issue, the key problem that blocks our accession process. Again, in 14 years, the Customs Union Agreement has not been restored to contribute to our country's economy and trade. At the beginning of the talks on Transatlantic Trade and Investment Agreement between the United States and the European Union, Mr. Minister of the European Union at the Commission's meeting earlier this year to address the negative effects of this agreement on the Customs Union Agreement between Turkey and the European Union, Mr. European Union, Mr. European Union announced that this agreement would be revised, even to the point of dissolution. But we didn't see Mr. Minister of the European Union in this Parliament when we discussed the European Union's laws of integration, so we couldn't ask him these questions, so we couldn't find out what he thought about it. The last thing we've come to is that the current government has created opportunism from the refugee crisis, as we've all seen, and the European Union has linked our relations to the precondition for visa exemption. Dear lawmakers, if we could establish a road map every 14 years to be a full member, we would already have this visa exemption that we hold tight. Dear lawmakers, every progress report published by the European Union over the past 14 years has mentioned the fundamental condition of our membership, the Copenhagen Political Criteria, which as of today is very important, the progress and improvement of the basic values of the European Union, such as freedom of expression and press, democratic law state, minority and human rights, for the first time in the latest report. When our relations with the European Union are on the agenda or something happens, as we all follow, we see different statements from members of the Cabinet. Here's the thing: the sympathetic images that Mr. Prime Minister gave in the European Union's leaders and in the European Union's capitals; the statements that Mr. Foreign Minister or sometimes Mr. Minister of the European Union different from each other; you know, the President's statements pointing to countries of the European Union and the leaders of the European Union. These statements and this complex image damage our country's national interests and undermine our country's reputation in the international community. Dear lawmakers are more important than visa exemption, and what we need to discuss immediately is the refugee problem and the crisis that the ruling party, the government, has to deal with immediately. We don't know that the government has any strategy for this problem, we don't know how to solve it in the short term, which is what the debate was about. The government, Prime Minister Davutoglu, is at the point of creating an opportunity and a perception for itself by citing this fundamental problem that we can't get out of, as a fundamental condition in the relations of the European Union and visa exemption. We, the Republican People's Party, have supported and supported all positive attempts to protect and protect our national interests on the road to full membership in the European Union for the benefit of our country and citizens, and we will support them after today. Dear lawmakers, for the past six months, we've adopted the European Union's laws of integration, I'd like to address a little bit of the procedure and the process. We've all seen the European Union law of harmony law, which, as lawmakers of the 26th century, we've all seen a far-reaching exercise in the fundamental value of the European Union's active institutional structure, continuity, consistent stance, successful integration culture, which we've been seeking to be a member in this process, which we're rapidly accepting, as it is today. As such, the Luxembourg Compromise, adopted by the European Union member states in 1966, and they adopted and reflected applications in decision-making mechanisms, such as the Ionian Compromising of the Lisbon Treaty, which they recently adopted in 1966. The countries of the European Union also act in a joint agreement with these agreements and with these applications to determine the president and senior representatives of their institutional structures. They select people who will operate this institutional structure and provide the best representation -- their top corporate representatives -- in terms of merit, hardware, quality. The European Union's successful integration process is based on this transparent, democratic institutional structure and the process of determining high-level representatives and decision-making mechanisms. Well, valuable lawmakers, in the face of this transparent and objective functioning institutional management principles and efficient functioning of the European Union, we have determined in this parliament for the past six months that the institutional structures that we have adopted under the European Union's law of integration are in a non-compromising way, and especially at the point of the formations of these institutions that we accept, both the opposition's reservations and the concerns of civil society institutions. But, more importantly, what did we do when the valued lawmakers tried to become members of the European Union -- which in the last 60 years -- determined our highest level of institutional representation? What did we say when we elected the president? What did we say when we identified the Prime Minister? What did we say when we identified the Speaker of Parliament? Ismail will be our brother. After that, this is not over. Our doctor, our lawyer, our son-in-law, our driver, our friend in prison... this list goes on and on, as you know. And then the precious MPs, what do we say? This European Union won't take us anyway. We're all saying the same thing. Yes, in these days, when we have passed the European Union's laws of integration one after another, as we are trying to become members of the European Union, we may be able to transfer the President of the European Union's Integration Commission to the main opposition party in order to strengthen our own democracy, our Parliament, democratize the decision-making processes and make the laws that will be adopted more inclusive. Many countries that have completed and continue the accession process have left the Presidents of the European Union's Integration Commission to the main opposition parties. Which is the best example we can see in Croatia. You know, Croatia has completed its accession process very quickly, and has shown understanding here that the opposition is particularly a solution to the accession process. Now, as we look at Croatia, Croatia applied for membership in the European Union in 2003, became a candidate country in 2004, began the negotiation process with us in 2005, becoming the 28th full member of the European Union in 2013. Dear lawmakers, we, the Republican People's Party, have proved that we are ready for the last six months, and especially for the last month, with full support in the European Union integration laws process, to show the responsible attitude expected by a solution partner. Come, not because the European Union wants us to, but to rebuild the quality of our democracy, which is moving rapidly towards authoritarianism, let us take all the necessary steps for the welfare and happiness of our citizens in this Parliament together. Finally, on the 4th of May, which we have all been waiting for, yes, the European Union will announce a recommendation on whether or not we have these criteria for visa exemption. However, the perception is that on May 4th, we will all get free movement in the Schengen region, which is the European Union's visa liberalisation area. If we get a positive recommendation on visa exemption on May 4th, despite all the obstacles of the opposition, you will say, "We did it." Even if we make a negative recommendation, this is the destruction team of the European Union. We're all waiting together again, unfortunately, will we be deceived? Dear lawmakers, we, the main opposition party, stand by a respected, honorable, unconditional full membership in the European Union. By fully supporting the European Union's law of integration, we support an unconditional European Union membership by contributing to the legislative process by critically criticizing all shortcomings in the laws of the opposition as part of our mission. Yes, and finally, last week, there was an argument that we believed was particularly important and intense on the agenda of our country and this House. We all discussed the statement Mr. Kahraman, the Speaker of Parliament, made on the principle of relativity. It was a statement that violated its powers set in the Constitution and ignored its oath before all of us, before this great nation, and the founding values of the republic. However, what I'd like to mention is that these statements by the Speaker of Parliament, the statements he made over this secularism principle, as you've followed, have had a huge impact on the public opinion of the European Union. In a programme published in Germany, European Parliament President Martin Schulz made the following statements in a programme on the Council of Ministers and Turkey: I find it very dangerous for Erdogan to turn to pressure policies and authoritarian state. During the same week, the European Union's Enlargement Commissioner issued the following statement: "If the real goal is to become a member of the European Union, then the rule of law is at the top of priorities. We expect Turkey to go to attitude changes. I've made this law, I've made this law. It's not just saying, "I'm ticking some boxes." Regarding the performance of these, it is important to see how they are implemented, how they are respected. The Commissioner for Enlargement again states that the principle of rule of law and democracy are one and there are no different types. We don't have different democracies called European and Turkish democracies. I want to explain, valuable lawmakers, that we are trying to accept the European Union's laws of integration here, together, with a hard and hard work to complete, especially in order to achieve success in terms of visa liberalisation. However, on the other hand, the high-level statements that have been made create a public situation and an image that destroys all that we've done in the European Union. These statements and these applications are statements that have damaged our accession process in the public eye of the European Union. Finally, while we were discussing the European Union's law of integration, we were talking about the culture of reconciliation, and we witnessed the verbal attacks of some lawmakers during these talks, but even worse, the physical attacks. Dear MPs, I am a member of this Parliament, and apart from the European Union values and the culture of reconciliation, we must set an example for this nation by maintaining our ethical and moral values in this great Parliament, setting an example for the society that has already been polarized and divided enough by maintaining the limits of endurance and respect for each other. I think it's more important than us being members of the European Union and getting visa exemptions. As of today, May 3rd is World Press Freedom Day. As you know, today -- it also came on the agenda -- as a result of a report by journalists who have no borders -- Turkey has declined by 2 places compared to last year and has fallen to the 151st rank among 180 countries. Again, in Freedom House's report, Turkey is not free at the point of the press situation. As I mentioned in my speech, the European Union Progress Report is particularly critical of freedom of press and expression and our overall recession in all freedoms. In particular, I say that preventing this setback, guaranteeing media, expression and press freedom, and especially the 23rd chapter of justice and fundamental rights, the 24th chapter of justice, freedom and security chapters, both the European Union and our government, will demonstrate a common will, and we will provide full support as the main opposition. I hereby celebrate the May 3rd World Press Freedom days of all press workers who are trying to perform their duties freely, despite all attempts at oppression and intimidation. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0290par0475	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0291par0476	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0290par0477	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0291par0478	Mr. President, thanks to criticism, we listen to them, but our brother Ismail is here, our brother Ahmet is here, our driver, our doctor, etc. When people come to a place of democratic will, they have to be respected, these two.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0290par0479	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE REPUBLICATION OF THE UNIVERSE WITH THE TURKEY COMMUNITY OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF UNIVERSE The approval of the Joint Responsibility Committee on Responsibility between the Republic of Turkey and the European Union was approved by 2/2016. On behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir is an Istanbul MP who wants to speak on Article 1. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0292par0488	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, Syria is one of the most unfortunate countries in recent years. There have been other unfortunate countries before, or, in addition to them, they continue to happen. He had a dictator in charge. First, he was not a dictator to our rulers, but then interests conflicted, and Syria became a country like Iraq, where various countries fought on their land, just like Afghanistan. Now, what we're talking about is Bill 298, which is the re-enactment agreement, which will give us visa exemption in Europe, and so today, we really need to be as quiet as possible because today is the last day to get this accepted. If this deal is accepted, I'm sure the visa will pass accordingly. Tomorrow the European Commission will announce its decision. Despite the commission's recommendation, visa exemption must be passed by both member states and the European Parliament. Claims that the European Union would ratify visa liberalisation for citizens of the Republic of Turkey are already reflected in the European press. But it's not very bright. According to the daily Politics, Germany and France have already taken their own measures against the visa liberalisation agreement with Turkey. They're looking for an emergency exit where they can suspend the deal when asked. They are always trying to develop a mechanism that will ensure that Turkey meets the European Union criteria, that the visa agreement will be cancelled under otherwise. Turkey plans to suspend the agreement if the number of people who will come from Turkey without visas and remain in countries without a residence permit arises, the number of asylum seekers from Turkey and Turkey does not accept enough refugees. EU governments are under huge public pressure to address the immigration crisis as soon as possible. Center right parties are being pushed by extreme right parties. Since there is also a right-wing rise in Europe, right governments follow closed border policies at the risk of violating European refugee law. No matter what Turkey says, Europe is aware of the situation, which has closed its eyes to human rights for both us and its ugly interests. This refugee negotiation didn't start today. The AKP, which thought it would soon overthrow Bezar Assad, said it would intervene in military action if Turkey's Syrian population, which sought to attract the European Union, increased by 100,000. Before the refugees arrived, he set up camps on the border, and those who fought in Syria were able to enter the camps and return to Syria when they wanted to. It was the AKP government that encouraged the first refugee raid, but it didn't get asked, Assad didn't go, the war continued, and the number of refugees drew closer to 3 million today. Is Turkey really the third country that is safe? Amnesty International says the treaty is a historic human rights violation. Refugees from Turkey to Greece and Italy will be sent to Turkey, which is considered the third secure country if they do not apply for asylum or are rejected. What's the third safe country? In order to be the third secure country, the country must not be divided into races, language, religion, torture, asylum seekers do not face serious risks, democratic standards must be met. That's why we accept the laws one after another, to look like we're doing them. And the whole apocalypse is falling apart. Human rights organisations, such as the United Nations Refugee Agency, Amnesty International, say they are concerned that the agreement is not in accordance with refugee law and Turkey does not meet the conditions for being the third secure country. Let's praise our refugee policy as much as we'd like, but just because we can't afford healthy conditions for asylum seekers doesn't mean we have a good policy. As the European Union signed a re-enactment agreement with Turkey, one of its excuses was Turkey's work permit for Syrian refugees. In this regard, fewer than 0.1 per cent of the Syrians in Turkey today have a work permit. Unfortunately, some opposition lawmakers, who are still concerned about protecting their own interests, are concerned about Turkey's image when we say these words, since there are no more rules left for the AKP. But for us, it's not about blind national interests, it's about universal and human, it's about left values on the side of labor. In order for refugees to live not only in Turkey, but in human conditions all over the world, we must fight today and tomorrow. You know what the problem is, valuable lawmakers, preventing wars without war, preventing people from becoming refugees, but no one in the world, including the government of Turkey, unfortunately, has no intention of starting a war, and no one wants to prevent wars because there is a war economy. Last week in Germany, we were at a parliamentary review meeting of security strategies with MPs from all parties. Today, the security policies of the entire world have been discussed, so we've been told that we need to maintain security everywhere, that bombs have been detonated everywhere, and that we need to act together for that. The American official was asked about America's policies in Iraq. What policy was your policy in Iraq? When asked how do you view this policy today, they expressed that there were significant errors in Iraq, and that when they looked at it today, they would not actually carry out the policy in Iraq in the same way. Well, we said Afghanistan; well, we said Libya, and they gave them the same answer. As a result, neither Iraq nor Libya nor Afghanistan nor earlier, when we looked at Vietnam, none of these were the right policies. When we looked at Syria today, the policies that actually made Syria a war environment for all countries' interests were not the right ones. Today, if America can't enter Syria as it did before in Iraq, so can the anti-war policies that have been created by the public. Yes, don't you want war in a country, support freedoms in that country, support human rights organizations, give people the right to choose their own fates in their country so that they don't become refugees, they don't have to emigrate. Whether it's freedom, whether it's security, whether it's equal, whether it's a fair life, whether it's security, whether people are refugees, and if they're in their own country, in their own living conditions, they can continue to live as they please. I salute you all with the wish of a free world where people are not refugees.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0293par0501	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0294par0502	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0293par0503	Yes, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0294par0504	Filiz Hanım carried out an argument in the Council of Europe. In 1951, some of the reporters in the Council of Europe referred to the fact that we would not take refugees from the east, as part of the record that we had placed in the Geneva Convention, and now we have three million people from the east. When those who go to Greece return to Turkey, the agreement states that Turkey is not a safe country, they must go to a third secure country. They make a theoretical claim in the air, which is not clear who will accept it. If so, let the third safe country go. Turkey has 3 million people, 3 million; they don't want to take 10 people.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0293par0506	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci, it's been filed.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0295par0507	And I would like to speak of a false claim, as if I were claiming something that didn't exist, and that I was supposed to carry an argument here, so I'd like to talk about bullying according to 69.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0293par0508	Mr. Iron has expressed his opinion that he will proceed to the reports. You can also express your opinion to the report.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0295par0509	Sure.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0293par0510	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0295par0511	Yes, I claim that Turkey is not a safe country. And those who claim it are organizations like Amnesty International, like refugee organisations, who go and study in their place. I also agree with Europe, which I've already said, that they're making an ugly bargain because they don't want to take anyone into their own country. Of course, I stand by it, I insist. At the moment, between both Turkey and Europe, I have stated that there is still an ugly negotiation and policy being carried out by the people who have already been victimised by the war they waged in that country, which must be prevented before the wars are waged. I'm just saying that again, so he can go on record.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0293par0513	Thank you. It's in the transcripts. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. On behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Ayhan Bilgen, Kars MP, who has asked for a statement on the 2nd article. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0296par0521	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let me give you a dialogue first. Turkish President Erdogan's words are: "We open the borders of Greece and Bulgaria and send refugees on buses." If you're willing to pay 3 billion euros for two years, let's not talk at all. We've been criticized for this delay. We can't keep playing with numbers, or Donald can't keep playing with numbers, we have to clarify in two weeks. Of course. I don't represent a third world country. The dialogue continues, but more interestingly, it's a paper that's passed out, reflected out over Greece; we would estimate that we don't go into that kind of dialogue, we don't expect a president to describe the issue of refugees with moral values such as ensars, inventors or something. We would expect him to react, but he wouldn't. At the TUGIC meeting, we have been conducting talks with EU officials for some time to address the problems of Syrian asylum seekers. A few days ago, we hosted Merkel, talked to Juncker. He's been my friend for 15 or 20 years. From the moment he became Prime Minister in Poland -- for Tusk -- someone I knew. The issue of our talks with both of them was the refugee issue. Someone's trying to attack us by leaking the transcripts of this meeting. What did we do there? We insisted on defending the rights of Syrian refugees, asking the European Union to fulfill its commitments, to be sincere to Turkey. Reports published are not a document of shame, but a certificate of testimony." Dear lawmakers, whatever perspective you're looking at as a refugee, you'll develop the solution on that axis. Of course, the refugee issue is not a problem that only Turkey, a transit country, can solve. The European Union has a very serious political approach worth critically, but the meeting we're conducting with him is on our agenda. Now, imagine, because it's their own expression again, I'm telling you exactly: if necessary, I'm telling you in quotes, we're making a law here. So, if necessary, can a council make a law that will not be implemented? If the European Union does not carry out its mandate, we have been working here for a week, ten days on visa exemptions, talking about refugees in the context of rights and freedoms here, to avoid law enforcement. This is the President's statement, my comment, not my assessment. Dear lawmakers, if you've fallen into a bad position with a problem, your ability to solve is not enough for him. A member of the ruling party's order just now -- I think the Commission also mentions to our orator, saying: "Do you know how many people have arrived? When you declared 100,000 red lines, you thought the regime in Syria would fall within a few weeks, but years passed, the number of arrivals reached 2,800,000, and the ratio of the camps is only 10 percent. So the ratio of what we can study to which we can monitor living conditions is only 10 percent of the total. Anyway, I think it's enough to bring the whole painting to its knees on its own. If you don't consider your approach to refugees with your foreign policy, you're at great risk in two ways. One of them, Aleppo, is being bombed right now, some claim that the Russians are bombing, some say the Americans are bombing, Aleppo is being bombed. There is a possibility that hundreds of thousands more refugees will come from Aleppo. So the numbers in front of us can reach a much bigger point. If you do not carry out a strategy for the immediate stabilisation of stability in your region, the quick settlement of peace and the return of those who come to Turkey, then you will make an effort to provide them with their rights and freedoms, or you will turn it into a negotiation with the European Union. Now, of course, there's a lot to be said about the content of this recycling agreement, but I need to stress once again that there is a serious discrimination regarding refugees in the human rights perspective. Why is there discrimination? First of all, there may be lawmakers who don't follow closely, like Afghans, Pakistanis, Iraqis, who will first be returned to us because the stability in those countries has been extended to a longer time, so there will be wars, poverty, famine, inhumane conditions, conflict longer. So the hard ones to go back to, the majority of those who don't want to come back to us. Secondly, it's about the Syrians, which is worse. Now we have the Syrians, the Syrians who have gone to Europe without permission. Which Syrians will come to us, and which Syrians will go to us? Loud and clear: He will take the educated, the chosen ones, to look at their files and pick out what the European Union likes and take them there. And I don't want to use those statements to us -- probably the more criminal, the more troubled people in their own country -- never want to look at the refugee problem like that, but I think that's what's going to happen to us. Now, from this picture, there is no healthy picture of Turkey-European Union relations, no strong strategy for peace in the region, no concept of human rights. Dear MPs, the European Union has fled from a very clear share of cargo. From the beginning, the European Union has actually been using visa exemption as a carrot, as part of the European-Turkey relations that have actually been going on for a hundred and fifty years since the Ottoman Empire. For one thing, this side of the job is already offensive enough, it's insulting enough because their very interesting expression is the representative of the European right-wing party, representative of the conservative parties in Europe, says: "We've put urgent mechanisms in these legislation." What urgent mechanisms? If those who go to Europe with visa exemptions from Turkey do not return after the visa deadline has expired, I mean, if they stay there, we will not fulfill our commitments and we will abort. Well, now, we don't trust there, and there's nothing to trust, really -- they don't trust us. But that's exactly why, I think, who's responsible for the victims, the refugees, the people who have to leave their country, their homeland, their land, so we have to face who's responsible for the babies who hit the beach. If you're building a military alliance with Saudi Arabia, a strategic alliance, you're not going to talk about stability in the Middle East, peace in the Middle East, the silence of weapons at once in the Middle East, because no one is your ally and your foreign policy will be formed on that axis. I'm not saying this with a Saudi anti-Arabic or anything. The strategy of Saudi Arabia's Syrian policy, expressed by other countries by Turkey's allies as well as by other Islamic countries in the Gulf, is the sustainable crisis in Syria, sustainable chaos, continuous chaos. So, now, why does the constant crisis, the constant chaos, benefit Saudi Arabia? Because if Saudi Arabia can block the conflict in Syria, if Yemen can stop it in Syria, Bahrain can stop it, it will have the opportunity to prevent and postpone its own internal disturbances. But if he doesn't make it, I mean, new balances, new demographics, new political quests, it's probably one of the first regimes in danger of collapse in Saudi Arabia. Democracy has nothing to do with it, there's no crumbs, but in Syria we're allying with countries like Saudi Arabia to end democracy, to end the authoritarian regime in Syria, and to bring democracy to democracy, and then we're crying to babies who hit the beach. This means nothing but crocodile tears. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0297par0532	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. MADDE 3. - The Council of Ministers shall carry out these laws. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Behcet Yıldırım, Adıyaman MP. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[Applause from HDP rows]] You come like lightning, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0298par0540	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group and my party on the deal between the Republic of Turkey and the European Union on visa exemptions and returns. First of all, I say that the Miraç Kandili of the entire Islamic world celebrates, that it may be a blessing and a cause of peace, and that the mighty Lord of all the minds of war may reform. [[From the AK PARTY rows, amen... amen...]] I have made such a request from my Lord the Most High tonight, that he may be granted it.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0299par0545	That's what you said, and we said amen.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0298par0546	Amen. Okay. This law is the result of negotiations to stop people fleeing the civil war in Syria. If the issue is limited to visa exemption, yes, we all advocate and support the travel of our citizens in every country. But it turns out that when Turkey realized that it could not enter the European Union for a long time under these conditions, when the same thought was formed in the European Union wing, the government put in place legal provisions for the European Union in exchange for visa exemption, as if it were a success to forget the process of full membership in the fallen European Union. The European Union has withdrawn Turkey's full accession status. The minimum standards in democracies are currently not on the agenda. The European Union's agreement to address the refugee crisis has also fueled the government's well-being, which has nothing to worry about, such as democracy, by enhancing the fundamental issues that will raise our democratic standards. What is now done is to try to hide the collapse of the European Union's full accession process and the government's failure in the process of full membership through this visa exemption. Of course, the government couldn't have told the public by saying, "We will now make the border post of Europe, we will keep the people who fled from the war." He's trying to cover his failure in the process of full membership by bringing it up with visa exemption. The prime minister boasts of doing good business. He says that it is not possible to negotiate such a deal through human life, but it is not both moral and righteous, and it may even be commercially possible to shut down the shop. We will be able to travel and travel to Europe. So as tourists, we'll be a source of income for Europe, we'll go as tourists. This visa exemption will also expand under a number of additional conditions. I can't believe this is gonna happen in June. What will we do in return? We will keep the people who fled from the war, the victims first; we cannot keep them; they will be returned to us, wherever they are caught in Europe. So the war's refugee size and the bill will be paid to us for three to five cents. Of course, how did we come to this conclusion? There are many aspects of the European Union that can be criticised. However, it would be a more righteous and honest attitude to begin the criticism first from our own country and our government. We did not follow a peaceful policy that would affect other countries in the early years of the civil war, in order to avoid this problem of civil war that developed in Syria. You know, a friend from AKP just said that they leave the day after tomorrow. The government has already made a statement about this, so they leave the day after tomorrow. This war is over, and we will go and pray on Friday at Emevi Mosque. But look, we pray every day in the church. It's not easy for these guys to go away, day by day... it's not the AKP's problem, it's Turkey's problem. That's how we're supposed to approach this problem. This government was thrown into strategic madness in the Middle East, under strategic depth. From zero problem policy with the neighbors, zero relationship has come to a very problematic level. So, we're dealing with one of his consequences: the refugee problem. How do we solve this problem? By trading through these people with Europe. So you paid for it by taking money from Europe; how are you going to prevent social, political, cultural consequences, again, by taking money? But it's not just an economic cost; the money you're given today will leave you with difficult problems in social life, cultural life tomorrow. Hosting victims, refugees, as any country should, our country must embrace and help these people. But instead of bringing a fundamental paradigm of solutions to the field of problems, dealing with palliative solutions will ultimately have serious costs to this country, and will have costs that cannot be compensated for with money. Here, today, the cost of refugees is not something we're going to deal with independently of the following war policies. What did the government do? The Arab Spring is coming, so I'll make it a priority in the Middle East, and its potential results, its own power, its budget, its international relations are coming. In implementing this policy, he built the rational existing field, regardless of the sociological infrastructure. In the Middle East, especially in Syrian policy, he acted entirely on sectarian and anti-Kurdish policies. This sectarian, anti-Kurdish policies have put the country in a complete deadlock in Syria. If you follow a purely warrior policy, it has cost, and that costs not only in economics, but in social, cultural costs. So, this law is closely related to all of these outcomes. What the government is doing now is an effort to save the day. Taking a few cents from Europe, you can solve the refugee problem for the European Union, but for your country, the cost will be very different. The consequences of today's war in Syria are simply a problem of refugees. There are mentions of 2.5-3 million refugees who have to be in all areas of life and will live among us without any social security. And it's certainly going to go up in years to come. Yes, all countries are at odds with the balance of power in Syria, Syria, and perhaps all believe that they can create something at gunpoint. But Turkey could still be the biggest winner in Syria without firing a single bullet. The path is clear. There wouldn't have been so much money left in the war. America, Russia and other Western countries are trying to stay there with power, not border countries. Because their cultural association with the people who have lived there for thousands of years has not been strategically cooperative. That's our reason for war: we have a 911 mile limit here. That's exactly why we need to follow a peaceful policy because we have such a long limit. There are millions of Kurds living on that border, which you call our brothers and sisters. You can't fight them, you can't fight them, you can't secure the border, you can't solve the refugee problem. You want to be at the table in Syria and the Middle East. How will you be at the table? We'll be willing to risk the war, you say. And I say, we can't be in the Middle East with fighting policies, we can be in peaceful policies, unlike any other country. You said war policies, you even shot down the Russian plane. Look, you can't fly planes today, not even at the table, not in Syria. And that's what real politics is like. You can't be on the table in Syria today, taking the whole world against you. Who are we dealing with the whole world today? Because of the Kurds, whose millions of relatives are citizens in this country. Anti-Kurdish policies today have isolated Turkey from the world, Turkey's foreign policy is now held hostage to the Kurdish problem. If you want to be at the table in Syria, you must not first overthrow the table in your own country. If you save your own table, you will surely be at the table in Syria. But we know what war policies you can't run, what peace policies you can't run. It doesn't cost you, it goes public, and that's what we insist on. There is no safe passage in our country, let alone travel through Europe with these policies. The issue of refugees is not a matter of freeing the Kurdish issue from peaceful solutions, peaceful policies. We proposed the peace project as the source of all these problems. Refugees certainly have a certain cost. But you know what the most economic solution is? It's an intimate peace project. As long as we don't run an intimate peace project, we're doomed to lose as a country. Now, you might say: "How should we follow peace policies in Syria in this climate of war policies?" It's very comfortable. There are millions of Kurdish citizens who are citizens of Turkey, and they have uncles, uncles, kirves behind the walls that you built. If we want to breathe in Syria and the Middle East, we must conduct a righteous and peaceful programme that includes our future vision with Kurds in neighbouring countries. The country's greatest weapon in Syria is the Kurds. But what are you doing? You're setting up walls on our border with Kurds. And soon, hopefully, these walls will collapse, too. Actually, we're dealing in human trafficking through the arrangement. We're taking all these people's lives for Europe on account of their future, and we're taking them hostage for the price we're taking. Under the European Union's harmonisation laws, Turkey will become a prison for millions of people who have fled the war, according to the agreement brought under this law. If you'd done a tenth of the effort to prevent this migration from happening, to keep thousands of people on the border from war, to keep them in the country, to stop people from going to Syria by migrating, maybe today wouldn't even have needed that re-acquaintance agreement. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Instead of trying to build Turkey a prison, an outpost for war-torn people, you're going to try to join ISIS, El Nusra, Achar-ush Damascus from Europe or any other country to prevent people from coming from outside.
tbmm-2016-05-03sit05spe0300par0565	[[Applause from HDP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. The negotiations on the bill are complete. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and even with this help, the members who can't get into the system will have their ballots delivered to the presidency within a two-minute period scheduled for a vote. Also, if there are any ministers who will vote by proxy, I'd like to request that they vote to which minister, in the two-minute period envisioned for the vote, which includes the color of the game and its name and signature. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of a clear vote on the adoption of the Joint Responsibility Committee on Responsibility of the Republic of Turkey and the European Union for Unauthorised Responsibility of Persons: [[x]] The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. We will begin negotiations with the Political Ethics Law Proposal in the 3rd place and the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Constitutional Commission Reports. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission will not be found after this, the decision is made that the bill and proposals will be held on Wednesday (May 4th 2016) to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
