tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 4th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement is from Sakarya MP Mustafa Isen, who wants to talk about the anniversary of the Council of Turkish-speaking countries. Here you go, Mr. Isen.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, the year we're in is the 25th anniversary of the institutions of the friendly and sister Turkish republics. These are the events that are being held these days. Also, October 3rd is the day of Turkish-speaking countries' cooperation. I'd like to share my views on these matters with you. In 2009, the esteemed lawmakers took an institutional identity, along with the agreement in Nahçivan, and established the Council of Co-operation of Turkish-speaking Countries, which continued in a more civil initiative framework. Its short name is the Turkish Council. This board has also been registered internationally and has been evaluated by the United Nations. Turkish-speaking countries co-operation Council, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzistan and Turkey have joined as founding members. Turkmenistan also participates in some activities. The Turkish Council is considered to be the roofing institution at the top of the co-operation mechanisms between Turkish-speaking countries. In this framework, the Turkish Academy of Culture and Heritage Foundation is a subsidiary associated with the Turkish Council. Among the main objectives and tasks of the Council are strengthening mutual trust among the parties, maintaining peace outside the region and the region, adopting a common position on foreign policy, providing the necessary co-ordination in the fight against international terrorism, discrimination, extremism and bordering crime, developing effective regional and bilateral co-operation on common goals, establishing appropriate conditions for trade and investment, promoting interactions in the fields of science, technology, education and culture, promoting interaction between media and mass communication vehicles. The Council of State Presidents, the Council of Foreign Ministers, the Council of Senior Officers and the Council of Aksakals have been part of the institution as subsidiaries of the Turkish Council. And I would like to say that as a contributor to the formation of this organization and as a representative of Turkey on the Council of Aksakals, I am proud of this mission. The Turkish Council has already done remarkable work in the areas of political, economic, education, culture, customs, transport, science, tourism, communication, youth and sports. The main mechanism of political cooperation among member states is the summits of state heads each year. In this context, there have been 5 peaks in 2011, Bishkek in 2012, Bebele in 2013, Bodrum in 2014 and Astana in 2015. This year's 6th summit will take place in Kyrgyzistan in November. The council has done important political work so far. One of the most characteristic examples of this can be described as one of the most concrete activities of the Turkish Council, in a sense, at the point when relations between Turkey and Russia are being restored. An example is that only Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) signed 250 agreements on different issues so far. The countries of the Turkish Council are deeply concerned with each other and their economic integration with the world, and a large economic activity is being carried out in this area. There are work forums, business units in customs and transport areas, university businesses. I'll just say this: Baku-Tiflis-Kars, which is expected to be completed this year, will begin the first continuous train routes in the world from Beijing to London. This is one of the activities of the study. In this sense, especially in the field of education, 28,600 students have received scholarships. This is another activity of the process. This year, the Nomad Games were held in Kyrgyztan, and the second was carried out. All of this shows where relations with the Turkish world have reached, and in this sense, during the AK PARTI rule, these activities have become highly accelerated and have moved to this potential high point in the Turkish world. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0003par0022	Thank you, Mr. Isen. The second statement outside the agenda belongs to Mersin MP Aytuğ Atıcı, the first female academic at Ankara University Faculty of Theology, and the 17th-century Army MP Bahriye Threeok, who wants to speak on behalf of the anniversary of his death. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0004par0027	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge from the secular, democratic Ataturk republic to the anniversary of the death of Bahriye Threeok, the first female academic of the Faculty of Theology, who fought with all its strength and power against those who were advocating religion and our great religion. I salute anyone who does not lead society to extraordinary situations and opposes the extension of the State of Emergency. Marine Threeok told me about the situation in which our country, which is now virtually paralyzed, is not managed today, is going to fall into about 40 years ago. He broke the rule of secularism and told us how and why traitors entered our country's capillaries with a mask of religion. Marine Threeok was born in 1919, when the Anatolian enlightenment began; he gave 1919 the rights, and became the model woman of the republic's enlightenment. He interpreted Islam with modern, realistic, and tolerant interpretation. He didn't use Islam to become mayor. (HPP cheers) He did not use Islam as a means of commerce to enrich himself. He became a member of the Republic Senate, a founding member of the People's Party in terms of September 12th fascism. He was elected Army MP. He was part of the founding of the Ataturkist Thought Society. He took part in a political struggle so that the country would not fall under the terms of coup and counter-fault as it is today. In the 1990s, anti-emperist, Ataturkci, secular intellectuals were slaughtered one by one, like Muammar Aksoy, Cetin Emec, Turan Dursun, Uğur Mumcu, Ahmet Taner Barrackalı. Marine Threeok was killed with a bomb pack on 6 October 1990. An organization called the Islamic Movement claimed responsibility for the murder, and Bahriye Threeok was also added to the group of left unsubs. So, why was Marine Threeok wanted to be destroyed? Because, like all the other murdered intellectuals, Turkey was told that it was rotted inside by religious exploitation and the mask of religion. The perpetrator of this decay was showing the imperialist forces and their tongs in Turkey to society. Basically, he was trying to show us what happened today. Today's political power will solve unsolved murders. He said, "It's a matter of votes in the referendum and other elections, but after he was elected, he took great pleasure in it. Some suspects who were accidentally tried in unsolved murder cases and fled abroad were brought to Turkey with the assurance that I would not be arrested. They began to work in the pool media of the palace by changing their names. Laik, the terrorists who slaughtered the Ataturkian intellectuals, who founded them, who used Islam, never, ever been investigated. In the blood they shed, the people who took abdest and prayed got away with it because the buildings that slaughtered the intellectuals were viewed as one of the different ways that Erdogan confessed, going to the same range. Marine Threeok wrote a story about how society and the state were defamed with a religious mask. The governments that ruled the state didn't want to believe it, or didn't come to their senses, but the day came, the power struggle came, and we walked together on these roads. Now they're trying to settle the score. We're not going to say no matter what they do, because this country, this country, we all, we're never going to leave it to them. But let it not be forgotten that anyone who deals in politics and commerce with a religious mask will answer to the public and suffer the penalty. In this way, the ideas and memories of the Marine Triok, which illuminated us, will always be fresh. His ideas will always be the fear of those who wear religious masks. I remember him with mercy and respect. I keep taking advantage of your light. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0005par0037	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0006par0038	Aytug Bey, blood does not absorption, blood destroys absorption, nor does it pray.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0005par0041	And we, dear and dear Marine, salute the Threesomes with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0007par0042	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0005par0043	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0007par0046	Mr. President, thank you. Once again, I pray for God's mercy to the late Marine Triok, and to the many people who lost their lives in the same time. It is the dark times of Turkey; who, what, why, should consider them. By leaning on such an event, it is not right for the speaker to use such provocative language. Taking abdest in the blood they've fabricated, different paths leading to the same range are all wrong. The assessment referred to by the President is all wrong. There's over a billion Muslim worlds at stake. These people have a certain form of ablution. Those who exploit Islam through the blood they shed are a handful of radicals, and they have nothing to do with going to the same range as Islam. Mr. Speaker's expression is, in fact, based on an overwhelming understanding of all Muslims. I take it that's unfortunate, I condemn it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0008par0050	I don't think Mr. Horseman meant it, I hope, but I promise him to explain.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0009par0051	He means it, Mr. President, he means it.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0008par0052	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0010par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. Just like you said, we have no intention of framing all Muslims, and there is no such thing in our words. Mr. Vice President of the Group, we have no problem with people living our faith. We have no problem with those who try to reach him by holding any of the ropes leading to God. However, we have a problem with those who want to be able to reach the ropes that go to God, and those who want to go to power, and those who want to hold on to those ropes and become rich. That's what I tried to say. Therefore, the religion of Islam is a great religion for all of us. Those who follow this religion -- as you speak of it -- are not Muslims in Our sight -- who use it as radicals and shed blood, cut their heads off, and then pray in it. They're our target, too. Otherwise, those who believe and pray will find a place above us. I hope I've told you enough about our fight. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0011par0061	Thank you. Well, I guess the situation is clear enough, I see. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Müslüm Doğan, the İzmir MP who wants to speak about freedom of the press. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0012par0069	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as you know, we're on the 5th day of the flat-muharrem fast. I'd like to offer you a prayer from our great poet, Shah Habiti, in the faith that you will share our feelings and our pain, Bissiah: Today is the day of mourning, Oh, Huseyn, oh, Huseyn. Your trouble has pierced my heart, Oh, Huseyn, oh, Huseyn. In front of Kerbala, The pain in my heart Have you been offended by the greens, Oh, Huseyn, oh, Huseyn. Those who come with us, Let him put his serum in the middle, Let Hussain be a martyr, Oh, Huseyn, oh, Huseyn. The writings of Kerbala, The martyrs have fallen. Fatma's mama's boy, Oh, Huseyn, oh, Huseyn. Esti mad poyraz esti, The heretic Marwan raided us, Hussein cut off his head, Oh, Huseyn, oh, Huseyn. The front of Kerbala is flat, Nights are day to me, The Shah is alone in Kerbala, Oh, Huseyn, oh, Huseyn. The star has fallen in the sky, The city has been blacked out, Imam Hussein is wounded, Oh, Huseyn, oh, Huseyn. Imam Hussein fell off the horse, The infidel came and drank your blood, His horse fled to Medina, Oh, Huseyn, oh, Huseyn. Give water to the innocent soul, Yazeed drank blood to blood, On the other side of Fatma, Oh, Huseyn, oh, Huseyn. And the clover shall be finished in Kerbalah, He's got a long waist, By the time my king's mistake is over, Oh, Huseynim, oh, Huseynim. Dear lawmakers, on this very day, in this month of battle, a Aleli TV, TV 10 have been shut down under the decree of the law. You have, unfortunately, shut down a television that has made the Aleki prayers, such a sacred day as a publishing policy, in an effort only to pass on the original form of the Aleki faith and doctrine to the advanced generations. It is not right. It is shameful and sinful. It is indeed an injustice. You know very well that people who believe in Alevi and are in their teaching are anti-plots, an anti-plot society in every aspect of life, including the February 28th, 1961. There is no change in your attitude toward the belief and doctrine of Alevi, not for 90 years, but you said, "We will solve the problems of this faith and of this teaching." You said, "You haven't solved it." Look, you've also turned off TVs that don't just go to Alevi TV, but to the left socialist working class, which are doing programs about them, broadcasting in Kurdish; Jiyan TV, Zarok TV... children watch Kurdish cartoons on Zarok TV. Are they doing something bad? They want to learn their native language. I wonder what terrorist activities Gargamel was involved in, and what non-democratic activities we didn't know about. Ya, a TV controlled by the RTÜK, you said to Jiyan TV: "You can broadcast in Kurdish. " How do you turn it off, with what thought, with what logic? There's probably a mental eclipse here, and it needs to be fixed. Dear lawmakers, I have no doubt and no doubt that we are going through a very difficult time in this country. The coup attempt has cost this country a lot of money, and it will cost it, and it's still going to happen. But that's why you can't get rid of left-wing socialists, Alevis, Kurds and the Kurds with their understanding. You don't do it right because it's a situation that hurts social peace. Let's build this country together, build a democratic system. So there's a coup in a democratic system? Teacher, you've been fighting this for years. Why isn't the republic democratizing, why can't we democratize? Something's wrong. If this republic is democratized, it will live; it will see the 2023s, and it will see the years after that. That's our wish, that's our wish. But if it's a democratic republic, he'll live. We need to be aware of that now. I especially want to avoid political Islamism, avoid political Islamic action. I respect the original state of religion, the original state of religion. Let's work together to build a secular, democratic country in front of their beliefs. But you're taking it, and you're thinking that by stopping these publications, you're going to develop the so-called democracy. I'm saying it's wrong, I want it fixed. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0013par0118	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who have requested a minute's promise. I read their names: Mr. Özkan, Mr. Durmusoglu, Mr. Sankak Mr. Atici, Mr. Engin, Mr. Akyıldım, Mr. Koysel, Mr. Minister, Mr. Emir, Mr. Karadeniz, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Özdish, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Nazlı. Mr. Özkan, we'll start with you, please.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0014par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. About a month ago, a small child was rescued from under the rubble during the attack of the killer Esed planes in Aleppo. His head is blood, his eyes are filled with fear, an innocent boy named Umran. The Ümran baby, whose feet were too small to touch the ground in the chair of the ambulance where he sat, was not crying, he was upset. Here is the silent cry of the little Umran, which makes the world greater than five. The UN, which did nothing but produce reports, blocked its ear for the dirty intentions of the 5 elders, while children were killed yesterday in Aleppo. In the UN General Assembly, our president, the loud voice of the quiet world, was the voice of the Ümrans, who shared the same fate, saying the world is greater than the five. Now, it's time for the Umrans to break the dirty interests and wheels of those who do. As on the 15th of July, I salute the High Council, saying that we will destroy the cruel's games with the power we have taken from our nation.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0015par0127	Thank you. Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0016par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to point out that the Iraqi House strongly condemns the Republic of Turkey and its decision targeting our President, which is absolutely unacceptable. The summoning of our Ambassador to Baghdad, the counting of our armed forces in the Bashika region as invaders, and the daring of making outrageous accusations against our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who became the hope of all the oppressed in the world, including those in Iraq, suggest that Iraqi rulers had forgotten very quickly what had happened in their own country's recent history. For nearly four hundred years, the Iraqi people who have been ruled by the justice of the Ottoman State, who then sought their peaceful and prosperous days -- if necessary -- with candles -- and who have been greatly supported by the Republic of Turkey during every difficult period have always been friends and brothers to us. Nevertheless, the Iraqi House of Representatives, which insists on its error, will once again see the size and determination of the Republic of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0017par0135	Thank you. Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0018par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. For six years, there have been significant problems producing vegetables and fruits in Mersin. This year, because of high levels of pharmaceutical residue in products, the manufacturer was unable to export it, and the products were sold for nothing. Thus, our farmer suffered a very serious injury. When we spoke to the manufacturers, they expressed that they used uncontrollably drugs to fight the Mediterranean fly, otherwise it was impossible to grow crops. Is the Ministry of Agriculture considering making an attempt to fight other harmful people, particularly Mediterranean fly, to cover the entire region? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0019par0141	Thank you, Mr. Pineak. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0020par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, a state of emergency has been declared to punish the members of the congregation who have caused the coup attempt on July 15th. Thousands of people who dedicated their lives to fighting the force with this State of Emergency were punished, victimized, just because they were opposed to power. Who were these people? The secular, modern and scientific education, the dedicated teachers who stand in the face of injustices, thefts, injustices. There are claims that 450 teachers will be expelled from Mersin. Mr. Minister of National Education, Mersin is a peaceful city in which different colors reside in harmony, but he sits on delicate balances. This practice at Mersin will confuse Mersin, causing injustices to grow further. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0021par0148	Thank you. Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0022par0151	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, one of the problems we've been given most in our country by our young people and their families is the housing issue. According to current data, as the total number of students in higher education is approaching 3 million, there are only 454,000 beds in the loans and dorms. Despite the lack of housing capacity, many students have still been unable to maintain order. I'd like to ask all the authorities of the AKP governments who have not left ashes on the barbecue when it's been called the social state: Why have you ignored the housing problem of our young people for 14 years, despite the 14 years you've built your development strategies on the construction industry and the construction you've done? Weren't our young people your priority? Again, I would like to ask you: Did your conscience ache for our young ones when you said, "We were deceived by the protection of the Laughing Congregation and the other congregations and sects who were unable to find a place in the state dorms?" Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0023par0155	Thank you. Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0024par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. Support for our students who continue to study in private schools in Sivas (Sivas) has been more than 300. During the training period of 2015-2016, the number dropped during 2016-2017 education period to around 70. When Sivas has already been abandoned to his destiny in the present power period, I think that this indifference and carelessness should at least not be in education. With our Minister of National Education being from Sivas, I expect him to be a little more sensitive about this matter, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0023par0160	Thank you. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0025par0163	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I honor the anniversary of his death, his murder. Second: Today is also Istanbul's day of salvation. We expect that those who hold festivals on Istanbul's conquest to show the same sensitivity on Istanbul's day of salvation. Finally: We filed a lawsuit against the DOSAB thermal plant, which was intended to be established in Burma, and we won this case, the CED report was cancelled. You can predict the sequel, of course, with the court order not being recognized again, the CED report was re-established based on the 2009/7 General Assembly of the Ministry of Environment, which neutralized the courts. We filed a lawsuit yesterday. I'm calling from here to the government: 100 D.E.D. reports, 100 times, and we're going to sue, and we're not going to build a thermal plant there. So, I'm telling you to cancel this generalship 2009/7, which is a law freak. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0026par0169	Thank you. Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0027par0172	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I remember the Marine Three-O-O-K on the anniversary of his death with respect and mercy. My district of the district of Afyonkarahisar is on the verge of pollution in Lake Eber, on the borders of Çay district and pollution in Akarçay district of Sinanpaşa district. Especially because of factory waste, fish deaths are taking place and they're spreading poison around them, and both of our water is seriously threatened. Death and death are observed in animals drinking water from these Akarchays, especially in the small town of Hüyük. Despite all of this, despite repeated warnings, no measures have been taken or done by the authorities. What's the motive? That's what we're wondering.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0028par0175	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0029par0177	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, the AKP, have pledged that during the last election, it would end subcontractors in public, that it would employ workers working in public, but there has been no progress from November 1st 2015 to today. The prime minister of the period, Davutoglu, gave the workers the good news that they had removed the crown, but later it became clear that the workers had been sentenced to work under the name of the special contract staff again without security, without staff. I ask you, will the government keep its promise? Will the public remove the subcontractor? Is he going to charge you evenly? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0030par0181	Thank you, too. Mr. Emir...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0031par0184	Mr. President, I honor all the intellectuals who have died and been slaughtered in the battle of the Bahiriye Triok, and the secular, democratic Turkey. We've already established in detail how the Press Agency supports the media with the power of the AKP, especially the Zaman newspaper. However, today we came across a new regulation. In order to silence all opposition voices, when cases like this are being filed when crimes against constitutional order are being filed, these media structures are being banned, not expected to conclude the case. It's called non-judgmental execution, it's called fascism. It is imperative that this general regulation be cancelled immediately and that the opposition voices be able to be heard. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0032par0187	Thank you. Mr. Black Sea...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0033par0190	Thank you, Mr. President. The current government building in Sinop Ayancık district is an old building, and there is no healthy working environment, and archive rooms and administrative staff rooms are not enough. Our county urgently needs a government mansion. Building a government mansion must be put into an investment programme. Again, the current courthouse of our Durhan district depends on the province's Special Administration. Therefore, there is the need to build a separate courthouse. The Courthouse of Gerze is also located within the government's residence. The Retarded Government Hall was built in 1956. This building, with two different institutions on each floor of the three-story building, is being tried to provide services to morons. In addition, the legal burden of the Dikmen district, which does not have a judicial agency, increases the workload of the Düzze Courthouse, and does not meet the need for the court's physical conditions. Therefore, in an emergency to the districts of Sinop....to today's conditions and...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0034par0196	Thank you, Mr. Black Sea. Mr. Tarhan...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0035par0199	Thank you, Mr. President. The line of vehicles is formed in the Akse Pervert region of Gebze Organised Industry, in the morning and evening. Gebze (Gebze) has a population of over 1 million during the day. There's no way in or out of the city. Traffic's trying to make it through the alleys. There are major problems due to lack of roads. As if all this traffic suffering wasn't enough, the military land in Gebze is being transferred to the TOKI. I'm warning the authorities that the density here is going to be two, three times as high. The traffic problem will soon become inextricable. When and how will you find a solution to traffic in Gebze, where you've already turned into a ball of problems?
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0034par0201	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0036par0203	Thank you, Mr. President. Regarding Turkey's 15-29-year-old group, the Economic Co-operation and Development Organization (OECD) reported yesterday that the percentage of those who are not involved in any training or training programme is around 30 per cent, especially those who are not in the business life, and that 46 per cent of young women are not in the education programme, nor are in any training program, and women in a 25-34-year-old group still have 60 per cent of the proportion of those who are unable to complete the upper part of secondary education. During the 14-year AKP period, the quality of our educational system and the level of participation in the labour force are increasing, as has been registered in international reports such as OECD. While reality is so, Mr. Prime Minister ignores these basic problems, and is busy giving good news of the transition to the full-time system they haven't had in 14 years and deceiving our people. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0037par0207	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0038par0209	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, on this anniversary of the great scientist Marine Three-O-O-K's death, I honor and cherish. My question is to Mr. Akif Çağatay Kılıç. There are about 3 million higher education students in Turkey, except for remote and open education, according to the 2015 YÖK data. According to our data, the home capacity of the KYK is 14 per cent of the total number of students. In light of this information, why don't you take care of our young people as a state? Why aren't the confiscated congregation dorms nationalized? Why are our young ones who cannot find a home thrown into the arms of the congregations? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0039par0214	Thank you. Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0040par0217	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, I want to talk about the tripod manufacturers that the AKP doesn't remember, who live in towns like Ipsala, Meric, Long Köpörü, Basza, Edirne, Gönen, Biga, Terme, Bafra, Osmansik, and drown their sweats. You know, the tripod grows in the water. And the rice that was acquired by its processing is that we are importers. Why does he not hear the cry of this power tripe maker, and watch prices at the level of prices in 2009? Why can't a farmer's land crop office, a black-day friend of the farmer's, at some point, explain a price? Tomorrow the minister of Edirne will come, and he will announce the price. There's no tripe left in the small manufacturer, nor the strength to endure, almost all the fields are mortgaged. Why are farmers of other countries held in line with Turkish farmers? Why can't the manufacturer's sweat be paid for? If you're going to announce the price, it's $2...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0041par0221	Thank you. Mr. Nazli...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0042par0224	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs Ahmet Yakupoglu, a national and internationally renowned painter, neyzen, hat, thesis and miniature artist, who has received the mercy of Dumlupınar Education and Research Hospital, where he has been treated for a long time on Sunday (October 2nd 2016). Some of the works of the famous painter, with more than 2,000 original paintings, were compiled in the books of the book "Kütahya the Colorful," "Amet Yakupoğlu's Brush," and "The Bays of Dersaadet." It is called "The Painter of Waters" because it paints water so beautifully in the pictures. The great artist Jacoboglu has dissolved his foundation in the last years of his life and has donated his wealth, nearly 3,000 works and paintings to Dumlupınar University to the next generation. Once again, as an artist, Neyzen and a derogatory artist, we remember the great artist Ahmet Yakupoglu, who was worthy of the 2010 Grand National Assembly Award for Superior Service, once again with mercy and gratitude.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0043par0229	Thank you. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group, who have asked for a word, in turn. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0044par0233	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the anniversary of the opening of our first airplane factory in our country. In 1928, the aircraft factory opened under Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's protection in Kayseri, a symbol of Turkey's progress in civilization, closed by law on March 15, 1950. The aircraft factory was a token of honor to those who had torn up Sevr (Turkish Republic) and buried it in history, but the factory was also a sign of Turkey's economic independence, production and industrialization. When Turkey's civilization progress faced the reaction of imperialist countries, the weapons, tanks, aircraft factories, which we built in the early years of the republic, along with local collaborators, were shut down one by one. Unfortunately, we continue to pay the price for giving up industrialization policy. Turkey's transition from its production approach to its consumption and import mentality continues. This change of mind is one of the reasons that underlies many political, social and economic problems in Turkey. Thus, the closure of the factory is not considered an ordinary historical case; its opening and closure is a process that must be studied and understood from beginning to end. Today, Turkey is conducting important projects in the defence industry. Our expectation is that these projects are produced by our design and engineers, 100 percent domestic and nationally. I congratulate those involved in the process of production, and wish you success in your work. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0045par0238	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0046par0241	Thank you. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, unfortunately, since July 15 coup attempt, not a single effective investigation into the background of the coup has been carried out by the AKP government. The AKP has turned the fight against the coup into a fight against democracy. The attacks on the press, local governments, democratic politics, public workers all aim to eliminate all the democratic crumbs that exist in our country. Clearly, in the process, the AKP has protected the perpetrators of the coup and the background of the coup. We ask questions over and over again about the political dimension of the coup, and we don't get a single answer. From the president, from the Prime Minister, from AKP officials, where does the political dimension of this coup lead? There is not a single answer to the question so far. We're wondering if there's been an administrative investigation or a criminal investigation, there's no answer. We're wondering why the coup commission was delayed, no response. Yesterday, the coup commission issued a new assignment, consisting of presidents, vice presidents, spokesman, clerks, all AKP members. Look, the AKP MP from the coup commission, Fetullah Supreme Gulen Efendi, who in the past praised Fetullah Gulen. This is the statement of a AKP MP in the commission, Fetullah Gülen Hoxha Efendi, one of the largest Turkish elders in the last thousand years. He considers himself the Turkish miracle of the Turkish world. To those who criticize Fetullah Gülen, those who write curse novels on Fetullah Gülen with their brains the size of Cevez are funny to us.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0047par0245	I'll give you an extension. Go ahead.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0046par0247	Now, the understanding itself shows that the AKP was tasked with laundering a coup, not investigating the coup. Just as the Anti-Corruption Research Commission, established on December 17-25, turned corruption and 4 Minister's laundering commission, this new coup commission would turn into AKP's coup and coupters' laundering commission. Because news that the coup had already been known, that the necessary measures had not been taken, that the coup had been forced into an early birth, and that a story of democracy heroship was being brought into play here for someone's political account began to be written intensively both in international public and in national public. We expect the AKP to answer these questions without waiting for this commission. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0048par0250	Thank you. Mr. Free Private also has a request for a word, and the right is reserved. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0049par0254	Mr. President, thank you. Two years ago, on October 6, 7th, 2014, the People's Democratic Party called people to the streets because of the Kobani incidents. In many places, there were atrocities, 49 people lost their lives. The brutal transcript of the violence incidents, the martyrdom of two police officers, the loss of 49 people including Yasin Bör and three of his friends, who distribute victims to the poor in Diyarbakir; 221 citizens and 139 police were injured in these cases. The People's Democratic Party, as a policy that takes power and power from democratic institutions, I think it should have a lesson that it's learned from the Kobani events, but so far we've seen no assessment and no autonomy about it being learned from the People's Democratic Party in this sense; rather, we've seen a defence that these events are a provocation. This provocation defense naturally raises the question: Was it part of this provocation that the People's Democratic Party, also called to the streets on October 6th, 7th? I'd like to ask you that. Meanwhile, a decisive fight against the July 15 coup attempt is under way. This struggle is being carried out in all areas.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0050par0259	Complete, please, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0049par0260	The basic principles of law are the most basic principles in this struggle. There's a parliamentary dimension. Due to the state of emergency, the KHKs have been removed, eight will be removed as long as necessary. We have an understanding in the direction of providing them with rapid, efficient, contributions to all opposition parties. In this framework, I've spoken to the other members of the group, as well as to the deputy presidents, who are about to conduct consultations on these talks that will be held by a delegation. We expect it to be productive, and we expect this challenge to be investigated with valuable contributions. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0050par0262	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0051par0263	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about bullying.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit01spe0050par0264	Mr. Baluken, your say is reserved, but right now, the President of the General Staff of Pakistan and the Chief of Staff of the Republic of Turkey have visited our Parliament, and I must welcome them for one ten minutes, and you have the right to speak. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0050par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 4th Union of the Grand National Assembly. Mr. Baluken had a request for a statement, Mr. Yıldırım, will you use it?
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0052par0003	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0050par0004	You want to talk about bullying, Mr. Lightning?
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0052par0005	Yes, I'd like your word on the bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0050par0006	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0052par0009	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers were asked very clearly to the so-called ruling party, which our group deputy, according to the Civil Charter 60. It's about political feet and the failure of the coup commission after the coup of July 15th. Now that you've opened it, Mr. Bostanci, let's say it. We've said so many times, look, so far we've downloaded four research proposals about this, and we've asked that we investigate October 6th, October 8th, that all parties be given membership; they've all been rejected by your votes. A second question: Does it mean anything to you that 46 of the 52 people who were killed were members of the HDP? Another issue: These events did not begin on October 6th or 8th; on September 25th, the death of 25-year-old Hakan Buksur, in my constituency district, and the loss of 3 people after a search of a gas station by the rangers in Siirt. Another is: If you start with Yasin Börür, we can make copies of these names. It's not that we're defending this murder or that it's not being investigated or that the truth hasn't been revealed, it's our reaction. And I'll tell you what the Ministry's officials told us during our party's officials' talks with the Ministry of Interior. The growth of October 6th and 8th events is mostly the work of parallel police officers. You come and answer the questions, especially about the coup, Mr. Bostanci. See what the spokesman said, the previous day, spokeswoman of your elected commission, Mr. Gulen, the greatest Turkish elder of a thousand years; what is it, those who oppose him have to be ashamed and think about him a thousand times; what is it, those who write these curse novels on Gulen have a brain the size of a walnut. Now, I don't discuss the size of the brain of those who write curse novels today. This is from your elected member of the Strike Commission, the commissioner you elected. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Especially the one we want investigated... Or if you want, we can download a new research motion next week, all parties will have representatives, and we can look into October 6th and 8th together.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0053par0020	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0054par0024	There is a legal struggle against the terrorist organization on the basis of all its feet. Whoever is connected to this and has supported the coup attempt will be punished in front of the law. The work is done, there are criticisms; that's the basic logic, that's the approach. People know how the October 6th or 7th events turned out, how they developed, I'm not going to compete here. It doesn't matter what party the deceased belong to, it's important that the citizens lose their lives. I don't know where Mr. Yıldırım got those 46 people as members of the HDP. If he had done a serious analysis and research on Fetullah Gulen's assessment of the Speaker of the coup Commission, he would have seen that they were one of the key faces of the fight against him in the press after his actions against the nation were revealed. But because it does not suit Mr. Yıldırım, he does not take those parts; he takes what is in his favor. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0055par0028	You're forgetting yesterday, but today's not important.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0056par0029	Thank you. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0057par0032	Thank you, Mr. President. First, in the 26th year of his murder, we once again remember Professor Bahriye, the fearless advocate of the Ataturk revolutions, the enlightened scientist, with longing and respect. He was a martyr of enlightenment. We remember and remind you of his first statement in the Cumhuriyet daily: Islam has brought the greatest revolution of women's rights, says Bahriye Threeok, in the 26th year of the murder of the modern secular academic Bahriye Threeok. For centuries, however, the Muslim woman had been forced to live in her home, lost her most natural rights. If the Turkish mother hadn't raised a brilliant son like Ataturk, who I believe was not yet born to a wife in the history of the world, she would still have been under overwhelming pressure from the former misbehavior, says the Turkish woman, who had failed to find the joy of Muslimism and the rights her elegant Prophet. Today is the birthday of Yasar Kemal, the great master of our literature, who was born on October 6, 1923. Today, we once again remember the great master, the great man, who says, "It is not as much as his body, but as his heart. We bow to him and to the spiritual peace of the sailor Threeok." Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0058par0036	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The loss of life and property caused by traffic accidents and accidents continues to be one of the major problems the modern world needs to solve. In the world, developed economies are trying to address the problem of transportation and traffic safety with investments in transportation. The number of people who lost their lives in traffic in our country is twice the European average. In 2004, the number of 10 million vehicles reached 19 million in 2015, while the number of accidents increased from 500,000 to 140 per cent in 2004, reaching significant numbers of 1,200,000 in 2014. Compared to the increase in the number of vehicles, we see that the number of vehicles increases by 90 per cent, while the number of accidents exceeds 140 per cent. In the 1 million,200,000 accidents in 2014 alone, 274,000 of our citizens were injured, while 3,524 others were killed. About 30 percent of those who lost their lives in these accidents are among young people between 18 and 24 years of age. The figures also show that the AKP's government has built up routes, increased speed limits, our roads are safe now. Its words are just words, and they can't prevent the number of accidents from getting to serious sizes, as well as the number of accidents. Again, in the last ten years, we have found that 1 million and 150,000 people have been seized permanently and temporarily. It is noted that nearly a million people whose licenses have been seized are driving a DUI. According to the Ministry of Health data, the deaths of traffic accidents in our country come in third place among all known causes of death. The number of people who have died in traffic accidents in our country in the last ten years has exceeded 50,000, which means there are not enough measures and measures to be taken. Statistical information that I have mentioned above also shows that the number of traffic accidents must be reduced and measures taken quickly to create a secure traffic environment. For these reasons, we propose and propose the opening of Parliamental research in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of our Constitution's 98th, TBM Institution, for the development of traffic problems, technical and physical infrastructures, for the deterrent of control, for the establishment of effective and lasting policies. [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 5) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] 18) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Samsun]] 20) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] 21) Bornt Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] [[Tripoli]] [[Gaziantep]] [[40s.]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to Article 56 of our Constitution, everyone has the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment, and our state is obliged to organize health services and co-organise health institutions in order to ensure that everyone maintains their lives in body and mental health, by increasing savings and efficiency in the human and material power. Many of the health problems facing individuals today are based on occupational illness. Employees face many health risks in their professions, and even the lack of protective measures in some of the high-risk workplaces is causing employees to lose their health and even their lives. In preventing these diseases, employees, occupational physicians, occupational health and safety experts, especially the employer, and of course the state have responsibilities. According to International Labour Organization (ILO), around the world, deaths related to occupational diseases are about 5 to 6 times the number of deaths related to work killings, and 1,950,000 people die each year due to occupational illness. In Turkey, the length of its working hours, given the prevalence of unsecured and flexible work, is contracted by between about 120,000 and 360,000 occupational diseases each year. Moreover, most of these diseases are unproven and officially unregistered because of lack of diagnostic systems and controls. Just as the Ministry of Health does not have a medical register system, there are also three occupational hospitals throughout the country, including Ankara, Istanbul and Zonguldak alone, lacking in access to healthy and precise information. On the other hand, occupational illness is a preventable disease when the methods of control are properly implemented and when the necessary measures are taken at work. In recent years, jean stoning workers have lost their lives because of siliconis, an incurable but preventable disease, as public witnesses have seen. Although they are not as much on the agenda as the denture stoners, denture technicians, ceramics, minerals, land roads, shipyards, and construction workers are also suffering from lung diseases, including siliconis and belliosis, skin, eyes, hearing diseases, muscle-skeletes, and therefore loss of life. Given that occupational diseases are preventable diseases, I respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the reasons for these diseases, determine those who have lost their lives and who have failed to carry out their vital activities due to occupational illness, determine the need for vocational hospitals and take the necessary precautions. 1) Mustafa Hüsnu Bozkurt [[Inconceived]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] 18) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Samsun]] 20) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] 21) Bornt Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] [[Tripoli]] [[40s.]] [[Edirne]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In particular, I would like to ask that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Article 104 and 105 of the TBM Administration and Article 98 of the Constitution, in order to investigate the reasons for increased air pollution and solution proposals in Istanbul. [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] 5) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Balıkesir]] 7) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[Slap]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[40s.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] 19) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Denizli]] [[Samsun]] 22) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] 23) Bulent Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] [[Tripoli]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Edirne]] [[Mersin]] Air pollution can be described as reaching the amount and density of foreign substances in the air that could harm human health, plants, animals, and ecological balance. With industrialisation, increased air pollution has become one of the major problems facing mankind. The reasons for air pollution can be examined in two groups: pollution due to natural causes and air pollution caused by human practices. Reasons such as the establishment of manufacturing facilities in the wrong places, the use of corrupt urbanization, the use of harmful fuel to nature, the decline of green areas due to increasing concreteity, increasing use of motor vehicles and lack of controls for air pollutants have been effective in air pollution. Air pollution, which directly affects human health, plants and animals, can lead to deaths and consequences leading to extinction of species. Because of the negative conditions for human and environmental health, air pollution is also seen as one of the challenges facing international public opinion. For example, contracts and protocols such as the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Vienna Convention on Protection of the ozone Plate, the United Nations European Economic Commission on Long-range Border Air Pollution, the Non-Ozon Plates Review Protocol on Dair Montreal Protocol, the Kyoto Protocol, and the protocols on preventing air pollution from the entity states. In our country, especially with winter months coming, air pollution has reached a point that exceeds international standards in many of our cities, especially in large cities. In particular, Istanbul is among the cities where air pollution is at its highest level due to increased concentration of pollutants in the air. The Chamber of Environmental Engineers, one of the most competent trade organisations on the subject, points out air pollution in cities, especially Istanbul, and warns the managers. Our laws on measurement of air pollution are still uncompatible with international standards and border values set by the European Union (EU). This is delaying measures that must be taken, risking the health of our citizens. The limit for sulfur dioxide, one of the pollutant parameters, is 350 in EU countries, while this value for our country is 470, the limit for nitrogen is 200 in EU countries, while this value for our country is 290, and the particle substance for PM10, which causes lung disease, is worth 50 in EU countries, and that value is 90 in our country. For the equivalence of these values, various dates have been set as targets for each pollutant at the earliest 2017, 2024 at the latest. In addition to being far away from target dates, however, the uncertainty of what measures would be taken to keep air pollution below these threshold values is troubling our experts and citizens. According to data from national air quality monitoring stations, the EU threshold value for particle matter PM10 has been exceeded 11 times daily in Istanbul Beşiktaş, 19 times in Esens and 15 in Sarıyer between December 1st 2015 and December 30th 2015. Air pollution increases heart disease and lung disease, and the death rate associated with these diseases. Air pollution is particularly negative for children's lung development and causes chronic air disease such as asthma and chronic obsessive lung disease (KOAH) in areas where pollution is dense. It also harms plant and animal health and causes ecological stability. For reasons mentioned above, it is thought that it would be appropriate to open a parliamentary study, which is effective in most of our country, especially in Istanbul, where the measures needed to be taken to avoid the dangers of air pollution and air pollution, can be investigated and can be applied to experts' opinions. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal given in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Thursday 6/10/2016 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. Manisa MHP Group Vice President On 15 June 2016, a parliamentary investigation into the destruction of the principle of integrity of Istanbul MP Ismail Aksu and his friends' staff regime, which we gave to the head of the TBM, was proposed to be conducted in the current joint session of our proposal Thursday (June 6/10/2016) by reading the General Assembly (now). Istanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu will speak first in favour of the group's proposal for the nationalist Movement Party. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0059par0239	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the group's proposal as the Nationalist Action Party for the destruction of public employees and staff regime for the failure of the principle of merit in the staff regime. I salute the General Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. At the beginning of my speech, I wish the second year of the 26th century, the year of the Second Legislature, was a blessing. Mustafa Hashadlı, who was killed along with his son Mustafa Hashadlı, is our former mayor of Istanbul, Recep Hashadlı, and Mustafa Pehlivanoğlu, who was executed by the coup of September 12th. The most important principle that defines the character of public administration is the principle of righteousness. For the existence of a functioning public administration, it is vital that the implementation of the merit system be uncompromising. In this regard, the principle of merit is not only theoretically sufficient, but the importance of the practice is how important it is. Every Turkish has the right to enter public services in the 70th Article of the Constitution, titled entering the service. In the service, no distinction can be observed except the qualifications of the task. The main reason for the merit system is the protection of employees and executives against political appointments and the increased quality of bureaucracy. Because both postings or appointments for protection of a group, or political appointments, have a very negative impact on the quality of bureaucracy, and therefore on the quality of public services. The staff regime is one of the key elements of public administration, which regulates public officials' relations with the state in the process of performing public duties. Given the public servants' service and the audience they're addressing, their impacts and importance in social life are better understood. The nature and importance of public service also reveals the vital importance of the integrity of the staff that will carry out that service. It is possible to express the most important problems facing public employees today that the principle of integrity is not implemented: the failure to establish objectiveness in service, progress and promotion; the lack of objectiveness in appointment and promotion; the injustice revealed by the use of exceptional practices; the irrigation of current legal and administrative regulations to ensure objectiveness; the unjust and injustices based on intimidation, intimidation and intimidation of public employees; the lack of public administration as party officials; the corruption and consolidation in every field; and the lack of criminal discipline of the law in every area; the lack of criminality and judicial laws; and the lack of the discipline of law in general law. Dear lawmakers, it is the state's duty to make efficient use of all public services from education to health, from justice to security. Turkey is far behind in its population as a public employee compared to OECD countries. The problem is the inefficiency of nepotism rather than the lack of personnel, rather than the destruction of the staff regime. Essentially, the principle of integrity is not based on the principle of implementation, even though other laws governing the State Officers' Law and the staff regime are based on the principle of integrity. A lack of merit is an important factor that affects public service presentation. With the government's partying and the politicalisation of bureaucracy, intensive nepotism tends to increase social polarisation, justice and trust are wearing off. The most important feature of the merit system is being sensitive to political qualifications. All over the world, the trend is to increase the quality of general officials, to distance themselves from the practice and procedures based on favourability and to dominate the bureaucracy of righteousness, but the principle of integrity is violated in our country and prudence prevails. As a matter of fact, July 15th has shown the process of treasonous coup attempt once again that it is imperative that Turkey be found, first the Turkish country, first the Turkish nation. For years, the meritist nationalist patriots have been excluded from bureaucracy and have been subjected to torture and accusations and have been removed from their duties through unsavory games. Again, while our well - known youths are out of work on the streets, the terrorist organization is placed in various ways in the TSK, and other public institutions. Therefore, these criteria must be based on and taken into consideration in appointments to public institutions in the coming process. In Kutadgu Bilig, Joseph Has Hadjib proposed various formulas for executives and public forces to manage the people in the best possible way. The measures and solution proposals for a number of setbacks arise in public institutions and social structures while the qualities such as morality, knowledge, virtue need to be found in managers are other important issues that are focused on. Kutadgu Bilig has been given great importance to meet the demands and expectations of those who are governed by public administration at a certain level, to protect and protect their rights. In this scope, it has been suggested that managers with negative attitudes, who can't use the methods of governance, who can't function effectively, who make bad decisions, can break order in the country; such individuals are advised not to be given jobs. Dear lawmakers, for these reasons, as the National Movement Party, on 15 June 2016, we submitted a parliamentary inquiry into the destruction of the principle of integrity. According to us, first, a public administration structure and functioning of Turkey, which meets with modern developments in its long-standing state tradition, should be created. In this framework, a human resources administration, fighting corruption and accountability, based on the increase of law and justice, institutional capacity, individual competencies, performance and service production. In order to strengthen democratic legitimacy in the field of public administration and boost confidence in the state, the law must be strengthened, the state must be strengthened, a citizen-sensitive public administration by providing more active participation in the governance process of citizens and NGOs. In accordance with the principles of the democratic state of law, a governing structure and operation that together monitors rights, efficiency and new developments should be established. As a matter of fact, the National Movement Party (November 1, 2015) will be re-organised in our election declaration with understanding based on merit and evaluation of performance. In entering into public office, the equality of objectiveness and opportunity in progress and rise will be essential. Regional imbalances will be restored in employment, adequate public servants will be employed throughout our country. In addition, legal sanctions will be applied uncompromisingly on public officials and public officials who act as party officials who act, who treat public employees as party officials, who will act first, while performing their duties, and will end such practices in such a way that destroy state code and tradition." It's been said. Dear lawmakers, public administration, functionally state the organisational structure of the state, as well as the implementation and implementation of public policy. In a country, the quality of the system is as important as the quality of manpower. Manpower is an important element to run the system of public administration. Starting without a public job, progress and rise should be treated in line with the principles of right and right to transfer, promotion and relocation. Bureaucracy should not be designed for understanding, especially political opinions, which bring forward the interests of a group. In the distorted order where the state office has been transformed into a party official, it will not be possible to offer public services effectively, efficiently, cheaply and closely to citizens. Therefore, the investigation of unjust practices and the destruction caused by these practices on public employees and on the staff regime, problems and solutions will be revealed as a result of the politicalisation of bureaucracy. With these thoughts, the group expects your support of our proposal, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0060par0257	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. Mr. Mahmut Toğrul of Gaziantep will be the first to speak against the group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0061par0261	Thank you. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Dear labourers of the General Assembly, I would also like to say that I salute you with special respect. Of course, I'm going to speak against the motion given at the invitation, but it's as if there's a good staff regime in Turkey, a merit-based staff regime, and we don't want that to change. I'm speaking against you as an obligation. We, too, would like to point out that the implementation of a healthy staff regime in Turkey must be based on certain objective criteria for public progress, increase and appointment, and that the work that has been done so far does not serve this. Dear lawmakers have never actually been appointed public personnel in Turkey with specific, objective criteria based on merit. Every political power that comes first began to view it as a tool of staffing, more than that, a means of taking over the state, within its own ideology and view of the world. Every political government that comes has seen their staff as an area to be taken over, and has destroyed all principles in this sense and created a proper public staff regime for it. It's also important to admit that, unfortunately, during the 14 years of AKP's rule, our troubled staff regime, the spear has become undisclosed, unable to fit in the sack. Why do we say that? Because when we look at AKP's 14 years of power, we can see that public recruitment, especially in public, is entirely by subjective criteria, and they are completely covered by the interests of their personal and earthly party. It's important to say that we should first look at staffing at universities. Of course, at the time, we've all had the same experience of what you did with this acrobat who described the AKP power as a walker and said, "Look at us and look at the chambaz," while they wanted to build their own scheme. How did they do it? One step at a time, who was to be assigned how and where. For example, even though there were names written in the academia at universities, a few people would come out with the same name, a description was made that only the person was applying, the others didn't have a chance to apply. For example, the title of his own doctoral thesis was written. You know, two doctoral studies in the same field are either done to refute the previous thesis or not. Now, therefore, we know all this, dear friends. But the AKP's picture is changing, especially after this July 15th, when they say, "We're fighting the full service, the gang, the people who caused the coup, we're fighting the coup," they're saying, "We're liquidating them from the public." Look, in the meantime, hundreds of thousands of public personnel have been suspended, discharged, or imprisoned, without any legal criteria. Cops, soldiers, teachers, educators, university employees, there's not a single legal criteria for that. In a short period of a month and a half, how could you expel hundreds of thousands of staff, according to what principles? There are examples that are not possible to understand, dear friends. For example, he shopped at NTT, withdrew money from Bank Asia, and was suspended by public staff, such as those who invested money. What's more, how do we explain that the students who want peace should not be left uneducated? How do we explain that the teacher Ayşe, who says, "Don't let the children die." There's no way to explain it. The goal is very clear: the AKP is now trying to fill its responsibilities with new congregations, with its own allies. After saying that, dear friends, I would also like to focus on this contract teaching practice, which has actually been on the agenda recently. Now, you know, there's a draft of a contract teacher's appointment waiting in line right now. He'll come to the council. He's in line. So, why are you making a KHK case now that you've taken advantage of the opportunities of the extraordinary form of contract teacher while you're standing like this? The goal is to hand over the authority of the House here, to render the House ineffective. So, what arguments do the government have on interview-based teaching? First, dear friends, it says: "We will prevent the parallel structure of the coup attempt from reentering the state staff through interviews." Now, when you look back on the past, do you know how the Fetullahist Congregation, which they call a public gang, entered? They didn't take any KPSS exams, dear friends, just the opposite, because you were interviewing, because the interviewers were in that community, and they chose their own supporters. There was nothing wrong with the KPSS. The problem with KPSS was that you stole the KPSS questions and leaked them to the congregation earlier, that's the problem. Now, they have a second thesis on contract teaching, and they say: "We can't meet the need for teachers in the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian region, we will meet it and the teacher will be permanent there." Of course, what they mean here, here, is east and southeast -- there's actually an illusion there -- they mean to say clearly in the Kurdish provinces, but they camouflage it as east and southeast. Now, look, the teacher in the area, you can't hold him at gunpoint, because there's no force of beauty, dear friends. What is needed is to ensure our inner peace in the region and make teachers feel safe there. The teaching profession is a public profession. Hence, teachers in the region ask for constant transfers because of an unsolicited peace environment. If you can't keep the peace, you can't keep the teachers there by force. Look, you know what you're doing in the area today, and you threw them out in a pen just because they're members of education, and because their 11.301 teacher used his union rights, and the students said, "Don't leave them without a teacher." Now, so how can you tell the teachers that you threw out in a pen that you felt safe in this environment? No one in Turkey is feeling safe at the moment, everyone doubts each other because people are being taken with such opinions that everyone, the military, the police, the teacher, all the public staff, can I be picked up tomorrow? Now, dear friends, they have a third thesis, which they say is that contract teachering will conduct a more effective study to get into the staff without a problem. That's wrong, too. Look, you've created a double between teachers. Contracted teachers are known in public as half-teachers. You've created conflict between them, and you've made their demands for social, legal education irresistible. Now, therefore, when we think about all of this, this law of public personnel that you brought in has to reach objective criteria immediately.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0062par0274	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0061par0275	Look, I don't need to tell you the irregularities of the recent public exam, it's been expressed a lot here. What's important is that we want and support a law based on objective criteria, pluralist, scientific staff. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0062par0278	Thank you. In favour of the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal, the second will speak in favour of the Manisa MP, Mr. Free Private. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0063par0282	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. It is measured by the fact that a country is a developed country, that its state is functioning smoothly against any risk, any extraordinary situation, any unexpected development. Countries have natural disasters, countries have crises, countries have terrorist attacks, civil war threats. If you've built the state based on merit and career elements and objective criteria, scientific criteria, there may be pain, hardship, difficult times in the country, but the state doesn't stop working, it works very well. Then, you can brag about the staff regime, this system, but if, as in Turkey, there is a challenge, if the state is like it now; if no one trusts the state, its institutions, its institutions, its institutions; if the state has to search for the tools within itself, then the system that you've established does not mean a regime for a modern country, for a developed country. The work of the late Ecevit (Ecevit) prime minister in this regard, the KPSS system that has been established... if the government's rulers hadn't stolen the questions at the Public Staff Selection Exam, where, indeed, if the state could maintain its own honor, the system you call the KPSS is the uncle of the non-uncle, the sister of the non-sisterless. Let's go back to the 2010 KPSS. What happened to the 2010 KPSS? The brothers, the brothers, the brothers, and the members of the congregation, who were known and cared for by the brothers and sisters from the dorms, had taken hold of all sides on the morning of the exam. We say that there should not be any other harm done here, and there shouldn't be any other wrong done here, but the 2010 KPSS Party of Justice and Development, which, by its own right, has not protected those questions that should be protected as the integrity of our own state, but has described them as a lot of adjectives today, which he calls...hain.., he called the terrorist, which he said, he said, "that's what he said." You have to see this once. So, what's he doing today? Today he does a self-criticism, saying: "We have been deceived, we have been deceived. " If we hadn't made these mistakes in our time of power, if we had been objective, if we had been scientific, if the criteria for choosing a government had been objective, where did we go to the root of the problem? Instead of looking at it and saying, "When we got the authority to govern the state, we didn't see ourselves strong enough, ready enough to take power from the nation, we hugged someone with four hands, but the new method that we've been able to make, I wish we hadn't made these mistakes in our time of power, and that we'd made these mistakes and that we'd been able to choose from the government office, and that we'd been able to do this in modern qualities. Mr. Naci Bostancı -- and his presence in the arena -- turned out to be a huge advantage, and he said to me, "It's a grave claim by Free Bey that there are a number of arbitrary questions being asked in interviews. Whatever physical evidence is available, I'll follow it with him. I find it grave that all interviews are done like this or that there are such examples. My knowledge and opinion is that this is not the way it is. Let them bring what they have. I said from my place that day: "There are thousands of applications coming to us on this matter. I'll stack them in front of Mr. Naci Bostancı. Mr. Naci, from that moment on alone, we received thousands of notes that I received 90 on the exam, which were to be eliminated. They asked me that question, they asked me that question. There's one thing we'd like to ask of you, by you, to make a commitment that the children who apply for this application, the children who express these complaints, will once again be unplugged by a second system. But we'll give it to you. Because they say: Say it, read it, speak of my hurt. Look, when you study these things, you'll see: "Are you fasting?" They asked me, "I don't know what answer I'm going to answer." Who do you think about when you say "Reis?" What do you think about the Kurdish reading of Eza? Of course, the paradigm changed this morning. But Minister of National Education Yilmaz says today: what if they were? We don't have a question like that in our pool, but let's say someone asks: What do you think of Reis? Let the person tell me what you think of him. Like it or not, as soon as he likes it. He says "Turgut Reis"; he says "Piri Reis"; he says "Another chief"; he says, "Let him speak his mind about it." What's the harm in that?
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0064par0290	Popeye, Popeye...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0063par0291	I have to tell the Minister of National Education that when I heard this statement, all I could think of was Popeye, if he came up and drank a jar of spinach, and then the Minister of National Education who said that, like when we were kids, he would hit all over the place. (CHP clapping in rows) Is that an approach? Says the Minister of National Education at the next interview... that someone might have listened to you on that day, and said, "I'm going to state your name..." when our congressman, who's holding a very strong pen, was writing the president's speeches at the time. He writes that a lot of realists are hurting our party. I read it the other day, and you all read it. There may have been more princes than chiefs, but they listened to you, and they said, "We are out of line in these interviews, and Mr. Naci doesn't think it's right." What's this, Mr. Naci? Your Minister of National Education says: Let's see if he likes it or not. Mr. Naci, we need to talk to the Minister of Education -- Piri Reis, not Turgut Reis -- but ask him: "You can have the watches back, Ahmet Necdet Sezer becomes President of the Trilateral Coalition." You can move forward, you'll be President Kilicdaroglu, Prime Minister is from the People's Party of Cumhuriyet. If your kids were to interview, if they were to go back to those kids, someone would say, "What do you think of Belkin Elton? What do you think of him? You've had him study all these years, you've got him working. You don't send it, but let's say it's the boy who's gone to imams, so you can't have yours, but the voters are sending it to God. Gone, worked, worked day and night, got it in writing, 92. They asked: "What do you think of Berkin Elvan?" Now, as the headman said to him so far, since the chief booed him, he's not a good man, but they're interviewing him, and our party's in opposition. I was thinking... a 14-year-old boy, shot on the way to get bread. Police violence, illegal order, law enforcement force that feels too insecure to resist politics giving illegal orders, should this be the story, or something else? On that day, they will give that child a note, saying, "This is the way it is, this is the way it is. " You multiply and divide by the coefficient, you get a total of 59. He's giving you what you can't choose, you stubborn son of a bitch. How do you feel, Mr. Naci? How do you feel, AKP Group? What do you think about the victims of February 28th around here, the ones who talk about persuasion? Some children are being questioned by their sects, while some children are being questioned by their ethnities, while the world's views are being questioned; between their consciences and their wallets, their concerns about the future, and whether to lie or not to become a government official, you build a state like this. We're warning you about this, we'll keep warning you.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0065par0293	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0066par0294	Mr. President, a statement...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0065par0295	Mr. Bostanci, I'm listening, please.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0066par0298	Mr. President, thank you. After yesterday's talks, as a result of our meeting with the Ministry of National Education, they sent us an assessment of what kind of questions the Ministry asked in their contract teacher interviews, on what basis the interviews were based on. As in the press, there are notes in the coming assessment that there are no questions asked, which are extremely arbitrary, subjective, absolutely anyone should object to. Mr. Free Special has expressed his complaints. Of course, following those complaints is the debt of power. If there are such arbitrary questions, whoever asked them will be followed by the government. But there's no record of any of these things on their record. There's no such thing. We all owe it to ourselves to investigate and pursue a decent approach here. In that frame, if he gives me that report, I'm going to request a review of who said what, what kind of questions were asked, in terms of the situation involved. However, in the end, we all know that teachers who are going to serve in the state, not political opinions, but teaching qualifications, and a national education supported by such teachers, is good for everyone, including power. There's no way we can imagine that this mind is deprived of power. On the other hand, Mr. Free Special, in reference to the Minister of National Education, has expressed some assessments here and expressed statements. I don't know why, in what context. But the information of the Ministry of National Education that has come to us is that there are no such arbitrary questions. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0067par0304	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. The National Movement Party will finally speak against the group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Meatball.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0068par0311	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group for the group's proposal to investigate the destruction of public employees and staff regime by the failure of the National Movement Party to implement the principle of integrity to the staff regime. Dear lawmakers, first of all, I wish that the Second Year of the 26th Age of Legislature brings blessings to our country, to our nation. The transition of Turkey to the Jihan state as the leading country in its region can only be achieved by an efficient public staff regime. The state's government's public staff regime is directly concerned with the state's position on and around the world. It is only possible that the leading country in Turkey's region should be strengthened and continue its position and become a Jihan state in 2023. This order will basically live off the regime of new public staff. Of course, as an AK PARTY, we're working on it. In particular, I would like to point out that the public staff regime that we have implemented is conducted on the basis of the Constitution, which is based on the Law of State Officers No. 657. We know that Act 657 of State Officers has changed 657 times so far. From here, we can see that both the EK PARTI administration period and the times before it were not satisfied with the Law of State Officers No. 657; at the same time, when we looked at the research that had to be changed again, the government had made promises in a number of government programmes concerning the public staff regime, and had them prepare various reports, making workshops to regulate the public staff regime in this regard to the conditions of the age, and to regulate the conditions of the day. In this framework, the EC PARTY has worked continuously to implement the public staff regime on the conditions of the day in its work within the framework of the President of State Staff. Dear lawmakers, today we run our country with 3,300,000 officers in the 80 million nation. Of course, with this public staff regime, we're trying to give our government, our nation, the best service. During the AK PARTY, look, over 50,000 career experts have been appointed by the appointment system. This 50,000 career experts are applied according to both the KPSS test results and the interview system. Today, during the AK PARTY, when we look at the current number, after their retirement, we see that 400,000 new teachers have been bought. Here -- as the speakers have just expressed -- the interview system has just been put into practice. Before that, the appointment of a teacher was carried out with the KPSS. As an educator here, I would like to make it clear that as a friend of yours who has served as an inspector of the National Education, the teaching profession is a profession that requires both merit and loyalty. Loyalty to what?
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0069par0319	Loyalty to power.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0068par0320	It is a profession that requires loyalty to the state, to the nation and to the nation because the education system, as in every nation, is obliged to raise new-growing generations with its values and to build its own future, so it must apply its system of integrity and loyalty. Now, anywhere in the world, you don't just take a government official with a test system, you don't see any examples, but we, of course, have been given this system to make clear the preference between people and the KPSS in the past, with this test, but no profession that requires career and merit in Turkey has been taken on a test until today. Look, I've been a teacher, I've been an inspector in National Education, and I've been an inspector in the years before the AK PARTY, and I've been elected as an inspector in both the written test and the interview system. So, no matter what profession you look at, we get the military with a written test and an interview, we get the police with a written test and an interview. Not today, look, it's an event that happened in the past, not today.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0070par0324	Now you see what he's become, the interview.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0068par0325	Career experts in the ministry are also being interviewed in both writing and interviewing. Look, judge, the prosecutor has been taken from the past with both written and interview exams, and is brought in with the same system today, but as for teaching, is teaching a more worthless profession than any other profession that he chooses -- look, he chooses the information that represents the knowledge of the field of merit when he chooses it.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0071par0326	Everyone knows that the Commander-in-Chief is Ataturk. Why are you asking me again?
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0068par0327	Look, notice, a driver's license is something that needs to be evaluated whether he can do that job or not. At the same time, you can also provide an assessment of loyalty to his nation and state in this system. Without measuring them, you came with only one written test, and you scored a high score on the written exam. Come, teach. When you say, "Here are the problems we have today. "
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0072par0329	You got them all by interview.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0068par0330	Of course, we certainly do not accept a choice that will refer to the values of this country, to the future of this country, to the unity and unity of this country and will not be able to carry out the needs of that profession.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0073par0331	You took it. You're the one who hired the people you're currently calling a terrorist organization. You got it with an interview.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0074par0332	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0073par0333	You aided in terrorism, aided in terrorism.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0075par0334	Again, look, our nearly 50,000 disabled citizens were taken by the lottery system again during the AK PARTY period. High school graduates and university graduates take the disabled exams and primary school graduates are put into the system by choice. How is that unfair, and how is that nepotism? Look, the martyr relatives are again, in the past, receiving them with their own written tests, while today they're being taken by lottery and test system. Friends, let's not take the stand in a way that prevents a number of isolated actions that people have done wrong to prevent the overall approach to the system. We will, of course, evaluate the system together, but together we will, of course, carry out the approach to a public staff regime that is building the future of this country. Look, some applications were introduced in the public staff system during the AK PARTY period. Dear lawmakers, let's be clear that the level of written information is very good, but the ability to transfer information can't, of course, be a bad teacher; the level of written information is very good, but it can't be thought of; the level of written information is very good; the level of information is very poor; of course it can't be thought of as a nurse or a cook or a driver; the writing level of information is very good, but a senior manager who can't speak out of excitement in front of crowds. That's how we can replicate the samples. The way to get qualified personnel is to be evaluated from every aspect of the staff, only the written examination should not be measured here. Again, look, during this EC PARTY, public staff were given a contract at the table, and their representatives were given a system to defend their rights at that table, and the legislation imposed on public staff, with representatives here, government officials sitting at the table, talking to each other about it. There's a mechanism for questioning the practices done here, to protect the rights of those employees, officers. What kind of political approach would we have to approach the public staff as allies? For him, new innovations, new systems and practices are an approach towards a mechanism that will provide better public service, better state functioning and better service. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There is absolutely no different application in this merit system. That's why I'm saying no to the motion, and I'm giving you all my regards again.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0076par0342	Thank you, Mr. Meatball. Mr. Bostanci, I'm listening.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0077par0344	Mr. President, I've just asked for the transcripts of Mr. Toğrul's speech to see if I've misheard. I didn't hear it wrong. Mr. Toğrül says that the problem with kpss was that you stole KPSS questions and leaked them to the congregation earlier, that's the problem.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0078par0345	Isn't that right?
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0077par0346	That's what you said, isn't it?
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0078par0347	Right, right.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0077par0348	I want a promise without teasing.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0079par0350	Then the congregation stole it from you. Let's just say it's okay.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0080par0351	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0077par0355	Mr. President, dear friends, I don't really want to take that stand to answer. After all, these speculations are of no use to anyone, but shouldn't they be paying attention to the language used here? Just make sure everyone doesn't try to sit down, and watch out for the people on the stand. Now, Mr. Toğrul is an academic. I'm guessing he's got an opinion as to what's going on. You stole the KPSS questions and leaked them to the congregation in advance.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0081par0357	Let's fix it: by stealing it...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0077par0358	That's such a terrible thing to say, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0082par0359	I told you what happened.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0077par0360	Wait a minute... I want to hope that this isn't what this is about right here, and I want to hear an explanation from you.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0082par0361	I told you what happened.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0077par0362	I'll say what I have to say after that. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0083par0365	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0084par0366	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0085par0367	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0083par0368	I'll make a promise to Mr. Special, then to you. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0086par0372	Let me make this very brief. Mr. Orator has just made several references, of course, but there's nothing to consider a taunt. So let's just say something from here that we think differently. When you talk about your own thesis, you don't say what's necessary, what's happening in this room, let's just take a written test. You've already done that, you've stolen the questions, that's what's happened to us. But it destroys its own thesis with its own presence. It's bad business. He says, "I've taken a test before the AKP." He says, "I'm an officer." If the system can employ what is not its own, but only when you take it, when you raise it, when you raise it, if it looks at the truth, and I think it's in someone elected to be a member of parliament, then the pre-AKP system is not as bad as you are, but remember where the AKP-era system brought us, the July 15th evening.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0083par0373	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0087par0375	Mr. President, I'm really, really, listening to Mr. Naci, it's like they've heard the exam questions stolen for the first time. The exam questions on this matter were stolen from sheets and sheets...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0088par0376	You stole it. You say it, Mr. Toğrul, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0083par0377	No, there you were, addressing the group. There's a sentence, Mr. Bostanci took it as a taunt and tried to answer it.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0087par0378	Mr. President, so the administration has no responsibility? Then why was the 2010 S.E.S. exam canceled, why was the S.E.S. President arrested, and why was the president of TÜBITAK arrested? I mean, should we have waited for all of this today?
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0089par0379	Whose signature is on their assignment?
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0087par0380	Whose signature is it? Doesn't the administration have any responsibility?
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0090par0381	Mr. Toğrul, right now we have the Justice and Development Party Group here, not the administration. And since Mr. Bostanci is also a group representative...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0089par0382	There's the minister.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0087par0383	I already told the government, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0090par0384	He responded, of course, because he was part of the group.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0091par0385	Mr. President, the statement Mr. Toğrul made here now doesn't quite match what Mr. Toğrul said here. Is there nothing wrong with management? The flaws of the administration are investigated legally, but if you go out and steal from the stand, it will result in legal consequences.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0092par0386	Okay, let's fix it, Naci Hodja, you stole it, okay.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0093par0387	Let's just say you stole it, you turned a blind eye.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0094par0388	Okay, it's fixed, thank you for your understanding.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0095par0389	Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0094par0390	Mr. Aksu, let's hear your request.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0095par0391	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0094par0392	Are you going to explain your position?
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0095par0393	Yes, I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0094par0394	Just a minute, please.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0095par0396	Thank you. Now, let's take a look at the results. We're talking about a problem here. Starting without a job in Turkey, serious problems remain with public personnel, such as progress, increase, financial and social rights. In government programmes, these problems have been addressed primarily as problems in the government's governments' programmes, which have been established so far by the Justice and Development Party, but the issues presented as solutions and the issues expressed by the speaker have produced new problems, not solutions. So there are problems here, questions being stolen. No doubt a Justice and Development Party did this. It is not true to say, it is wrong, but it is the government who appointed these rulers. Thus, if these questions have been stolen from the OSS, it is the government that has ruled the country for fifteen years. It's not right to act here with a reflex of avoiding responsibility. I wanted to express it.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0094par0398	Thank you. The nationalist movement party suggested a group...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0096par0403	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2016-10-06sit02spe0094par0404	I'll put it to your votes. There's enough to go around. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit03spe0094par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of Turkey's 4th Union of the Grand National Assembly. The nationalist Movement Party's group's proposal for the vote failed to reach a sufficient number of decisions. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: All those in favor of the proposal... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-10-06sit04spe0094par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 4th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The nationalist Movement Party's group's proposal for the vote failed to reach a sufficient number of decisions. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor of the proposal... Those who don't agree... Clerk members have expressed a negative opinion, there is no sufficient number of decisions. Therefore, since the third vote did not find enough decision-making, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (October 11th 2016) to discuss verbal question motions and the Prime Minister's thesis. I'm closing the meeting at 00, and I wish you a happy holiday.
