tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 93nth Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. Dear MPs, today is May 27th, the 56th year of the first coup in the history of the republic, May 27, 1960. May 27, 1960 is an unfortunate day when the Constitution of 1924 has been lifted and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been annulled. As a result of the procedural hearings, Prime Minister Adnan Menderes is a black day in which Foreign Minister Fatin Rügütü, Finance Minister Hasan Polatkan is executed and lawmakers are sentenced to life or imprisonment. Until today, we've been subjected to some attempts or injuries that have occurred. Thankfully, the coups are history and the coups are over. We have a strong democracy, a bright future. Our House is capable of solving all matters, facing all kinds of challenges, and building solutions. We condemn this kind of coup that separates society and disrupts our democracy. Yesterday was also the anniversary of the death of Necip Fazıl Süzcurek, a conquistador, a poet, and the birth of 25 May, and the death of 26 May. In his mind, with his pen, he was a man who worked hard with respect to the national, spiritual values of our country. I'd like to transfer a short poem, a continent: He's the one who gives and he's the one who buys, so what's going to go from you? Anyone who sees your panic will think it's yours. I say God bless all those who serve and serve our country, and I move on to negotiations. Mr. Group, if the vice presidents are willing, we'll give them a say. Mustafa Elitaş and Mehmet Mush wish Sir success because of his new elections. I wish them good service; good judgment. Sir, it's Mr. Akçay, Deputy Director of the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0002par0015	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is May 27th, which represents a very important day in our history. It's the anniversary of the May 27 coup, when the history of Turkish democracy was cut down. We, the National Movement Party, are opposed to any kind of coup but all kinds. Here's the deal: the worst democracy is better than the best blow. Freedomist democracy based on the rule of law is our understanding of governance. Today, the blows are not only done by tanks, cannons, rifles; today the blows continue by warding the uniformless. Legislative or legal governments can be taken down by coups. Whether it comes from the palace or from the barracks, the nationalist movement opposes any coup, personal and arbitrary government that could disrupt Turkey's democratic development. I hereby commemorate the late Adnan Menderes, and the ministers of the former prime ministers Fatin Rüştü Zor and Hasan Polatkan. Today (May 27th) is the 36th anniversary of the testimony of the National Movement Party's Vice President and Minister of Customs and Tetel Gün Sazak. Gün Sazak left significant marks in the state and political world as a man of conscience during the painful period of Turkish nationalism.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0003par0021	We've extended it for a minute. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0002par0023	The deceased, Gün Sazak, acted in a courageous and wise manner that would serve as an example and model for the interests of the Turkish nation. Gün Sazak, a close colleague of our Basbug, Alparslan Türkesh, is also a source of strength and hope for Turkish nationalists. We also know that today's political leaders have quickly eliminated corruption and bribery while serving as Minister of Customs and monopoly in the government established in 1977, reminding them of the state's understanding and acceptance of the state's state consciousness of the late Day Sazak. In these days, when politics is referred to with concepts such as "corruption," "corruption," "rant," "rant" and "cupant," he wishes that the late Day Sazak Bey would become a Polar Star for all public rulers."
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0003par0024	Mr. Akçay, thank you. Mr. Idris Baluken, deputy leader of the People's Democratic Party Group. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0004par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, as we know, the May 27 coup, overthrowing the Democratic Party's government, which led the election in 1950, opened a dark chapter in the history of democracy for Turkey. At that time, all leading members of the Democratic Party were arrested and tried. All Turkey's public opinion is known to the world, where there are no legal provisions in its procedural trials. During that period, Prime Minister Adnan Menderes and his ministers, Fatin Rüştü Rütü Zor and Hasan Polatkan, who were given many death sentences at that time, lost their lives in an embarrassing black mark on our history of democracy. First of all, the May 27 coup is an important milestone in Turkey's tradition of designing politics and political climate within the goals and interests of power. Unfortunately, that sense of impact continues the same way from March 12th to September 12th, from February 28th to the palace coup against the Parliament that we live in today. We do not recognize the sense of guardianship of the religion. Those who say, "We will put up every fight against guardianial understanding." Those who say, "We will fight against Parliament today, against Parliament, against Parliament, against the will of the people."
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0005par0032	I'll give you one minute, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0004par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm afraid they've turned to the same guardianship practices. As the People's Democratic Party, we want to say that we are against any kind of coup, coup mentality, that the process of democratisation in Turkey has passed through the democratic struggle of the peoples. In the form of a historical tragedy, on the anniversary of this coup, we would also like to say that we find it unacceptable and condemning that the National Security Council, which was gathered yesterday, had made a statement that had come to the HDP. We say that the National Security Council, an institution of the coup of September 12th, has no right to design politics, to drive political parties, and we will never accept that understanding. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Of course, you can't go back to the coupgers yesterday and wave your fingers at us. I want to say that we've also identified the fact that today we've met with the coupgers and waved our fingers at the HDP as an important area that should be fought against history. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0006par0039	Thank you. Mr. Engin Altay, Vice President of the Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0007par0042	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, in the past sixty-six years from 1950, when our republic met democracy, there have been six attempts or attempts to intervene in our parliamentary democratic system. As the Republican People's Party, we cannot and cannot accept this kind of non-democratic intervention against the government of the Republic of Turkey, whether military or civilian or armed or unarmed. In this context, 27 May, 12 March, 12 September, 28 February, 27 April and 4 May are about the same thing for the Republican People's Party. We strongly condemn all these interventions to our parliamentary democratic system. From now on, we pledge to the great Turkish nation that we will work with all our strength to make our parliamentary democratic system strong and prosper in the idea of a liberal democracy. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0008par0046	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party, Deputy Group Chairman Naci Bostancı. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0009par0050	Mr. President, thank you. It's been fifty-six years since the May 27 coup. Menderes and his friends, who came to power by the people's votes, were deposed and tried by an army-led gang. This shameful event, even more embarrassingly, was celebrated as a holiday for many years. Thank God that's not how it's celebrated today. One of the key features of May 27 is that he prepares the ground for new coups after himself; Madanoglu's junta initiative, followed by 12 March, 12 September, 28 February, all of which we know, we know of the April 27 initiative. Basically, it's May 27th, and then politics is out of order. In various places, those who wanted to run the country, instead of looking into the eyes of the people's eyes, they looked into the eyes of these people, who they saw as new masters of Turkey, and thought that they could be in power by hitting them with temenna, and there was such a tradition. But, thank God, for fifteen years, all the guardians of this land have been broken, and everyone has turned their eyes to the public. This is extremely important because politics exists to deal with social issues, and if any of the public sees politics other than politics, it loses its ability to solve social problems. In that respect, democracy and freedom are crucial. The people that the May 27 coupkers hanged on the night of September 16th and 17th... the people who represented the nation's will, they thought they had hanged them, but this nation, they thought that their will...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0010par0056	I'll give you one minute, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0009par0057	Since then, these people have seen those people as the will and the memory of their own will being drawn like a flag and constantly blown by the wind in the skies of this country. Mr. President, on the other hand, today is the anniversary of the death of Necip Fazil Shortfurek. Thirty-three years have passed since the death of the poet, who said, "I have worked for thirty-three years, and I have stopped, and I am a kite flying unaware of the sky." May God make your place a paradise. Poets, all poets, represent the common feelings of one nation. Necip Fazil was a poet who did it very successfully. May his place be in heaven. He continues to express people's emotional sensibilities through his poems, political boundaries, across the borders of the country. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0011par0060	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0012par0061	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0011par0062	Yes, Mr. Oktay.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0012par0063	I'd like to make a point. On June 2, 2016...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0011par0064	I'll turn on your microphone. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0012par0067	Mr. President, I've told you in private before, but on June 2, 2016, there is a motion in the German Parliament to vote on the decision to adopt Armenian genocide claims. In this regard, I'd like to step in and submit to the information of the executives of other political parties that need to be sent to the German Parliament with this will and a joint declaration of political parties on this matter, if possible. This is an important matter. I'd like to suggest that this issue will also undermine the friendship relations between Turkey and Germany, and that a presumption will be made. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0011par0069	Thank you. As you have stated, our State Department and the Turkish National Assembly have announced that they are doing the necessary work. The effort continues, the work continues. Let's hope there won't be a mistake. Thank you. Let's move on to the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Turkey, with respect to the establishment and demand of Parliamental research commissions in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution, to investigate the reasons for increased internal migrations over recent years due to the low level of prosperity and the unfair distribution of revenues. 21/12/2015 1) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Sakarya]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 7) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 11) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[Scholarship]] 13) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[Samsun]] 20) Izzet Ulvi Router [[İstanbul]] 21) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] The internal migrations, which can also be described as an internal movement of labor and sector change, were previously mostly from rural to urban centers, and then spread from the city to the major cities and the developed cities nearby. During the founding years of our Republic, three-quarters of the population live in villages, while today's rate has been reversed. According to polls conducted throughout our country, problems such as unemployment, economic, income distribution injustice, education and terrorism have a negative impact on our citizen's daily life, and our nation expects a solution to problems from those who govern the state. Turkey still has not been able to use 28 million hectares of agricultural land, covering 36 per cent of its facial measurement. The watering of 4 million hectares of agricultural land, which can be watered by 8.5 million hectares of economic water, mostly dry agriculture, still sparse land, lack of knowledge in modern methods, agricultural labor and so on. As a result of reasons, the GDP's GDP was reduced to 43% in 1927 and to 8 per cent in today's case. In rural areas abandoned by migrations, agriculture and livestock are dwindling, while in rural areas of our eastern regions, agriculture and animalism have also declined due to terrorism. In order to avoid the negative effects of internal migrations, migrations must be blocked first. In order to prevent migrations, opportunities should be developed to improve citizens' welfare levels (for example, land allocation, tax exemption, etc.), by determining regional needs, advantages, and identifying Turkey's needs for investment areas, new employment areas should be opened, which should be encouraged by state public institutions and municipal business units. With respect to the establishment and demand of the Parliament's research commission under Article 104 to 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution in order to determine the reasons for internal migrations, the developed incentives needed to prevent migrations, and the implementation of them. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We respectfully request and request the establishment of the Parliamentary Research Commission under Articles 104 to 105 of the 98th and TBM Institution to investigate the measures needed to prevent brain migration, one of the major obstacles to our country's development. 21/12/2015 1) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Sakarya]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 7) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 11) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[Scholarship]] 13) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[Samsun]] 20) Izzet Ulvi Router [[İstanbul]] 21) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] In recent years, brain migration has been increasing in our country, which we can describe as the migration of a well-trained, qualified labor force to developed countries under the scope of cheap education in underdeveloped and developing countries. As development slows down in less developed and developing countries with brain migration, developed countries offer better economic and social opportunities to well-developed brains. Turkey loses 59 out of 100 well-trained people with brain migration. According to World Bank data, Turkish youth who are educated abroad have a 3.2 per cent proportion to those who are educated in the country. According to OECD's report on labour migration in Turkey, published in November 2015, the number of citizens of the Republic of Turkey emigrated and worked in OECD as of late 2011. Compared to the 2001 figures, the rate of increase is 25.2%. The number of highly educated citizens of the Republic of Turkey immigrating to OECD countries reached about 99,500 in 2001, while at the end of 2011, 182,000 people rose by 83 per cent. Turkish students who have the opportunity to study abroad do not often return to the dorms after their studies, grad school or PhD. Turkey's lack of adequate use in education, science, technology and industry is a great loss due to brain migration from well-developed brains. Minimizing the brain migration of developing countries in the face of jobs and opportunities presented by developed countries must be the primary goal. To prevent brain migration, one of the major obstacles to our country's development, we need to first be aware of what we've lost through brain drainage, to be cared for, to be attracted to the driving factors that cause social and economic growth and brain draining. In this regard, with respect to the establishment and demand of the Parliamentary Research Commission under Articles 104 to 105 of the Constitution, in order to investigate the reasons for brain migration from our country, minimise this migration, and even investigate the measures needed to begin the inverse migration. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey's Statistical Agency (TÜİK) is constantly changing its statistics in the framework of EU integration, and the numbers described backwards have lost its ability to compare to these changes. Therefore, with respect to the establishment and demand of the Parliamentary Research Commission under Article 104 to 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution, in order to investigate measures that must be taken in order to ensure that our country's statistics are in harmony with the EU and to achieve the standard of healthy comparison with the world's countries. 21/12/2015 1) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Sakarya]] 4) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 8) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[Scholarship]] 10) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] 16) Izzet Ulvy Leads [[İstanbul]] 17) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Inconceived]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] For a country's economic progress to be compared over the years, it must have a healthy statistical database. On the other hand, it is important internationally that these statistical data are in the other country's standards. Turkey's Statistical Agency (TÜİK) has been known for its continuous update on statistical data since 2002. The method he used in his update on national income was not implemented in an unknown way during 2002 and pre-existing periods. TÜİK upgraded its national income in 2006, with $576 billion under national income updates, and increased its national income by 31.6 per cent in one night to $758 billion. After an update on TÜİK's recent employment statistics, unemployment rates appear to be down 1-1.2 points per month based on the old series. Continuous updates in the country's statistics also make it difficult to conduct scientific work on our economic and social indicators. Therefore, a parliamentary research commission must be established under Articles 104 to 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution in order to adapt the working standards and indicators in the world's statistical literature to the country's statistical system at once, and to prevent changes in the way the TİK has made under constant updates and to investigate the measures needed to be taken in order to identify the issues in this area. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. According to the decision taken, we move to the special agenda's part of the agenda. We will begin talks on the Council of Ministers Programme, established by Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım Bey. The talks will be promised on behalf of political party groups, the government and its members, according to Article 72 of the Civil Code. In accordance with the decision made in the 92nd Union of the General Assembly, dated 24 May 2016, the deadline for talks on behalf of government and political party groups is limited, which can be used by two speakers, and the time for personal talks is ten minutes. I read the names of the members who took part in the programme in order of the group: First speaker on behalf of the group; First speaker on behalf of the People's Movement Group, Mr. Erkan Akçay, Manisa MP; Second speaker on behalf of the MHP Group; Mr. Erhan Usta, Samsun MP; Mr. Bkent Tezcan, Aydın MP; First speaker on behalf of the EC PARTI Group, Mr. Naci Bostancı, Amassian MP; Second speaker on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; Mr. Mehmet Musak, İstanbul MP; Mr. Mehmet Parsak, MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; Mr. Mehmet Parsak, Afyonkarahisar MP and Mr.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0013par0239	Mr. President, you haven't read the speakers on behalf of the HDP Group.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0011par0240	That's right, Mr. Idris, I'm sorry, there's been an extension, the order's changed.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0013par0241	You've probably forgotten, we're here, we're not going anywhere!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0011par0242	No, no, there's something wrong with the writing here. I'm not placing you in harm's way. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, the first speaker is Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş, Adana MP, second speaker Mr. Ahmet Yıldırım, Mud MP. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I give the first word to Mr. Erkan Akçay Bey. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0014par0247	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the 65th Government Programme. I salute your honorable committee. As I begin to speak, I first remember the ancestors who entrusted our country to us, the integrity of our country, all the martyrs who sacrificed their lives for the unity of our nation, the Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and his comrades, the founder of our party, Basbug. Today we are discussing the government's programme. How did this government program happen? There used to be a soda commercial on TV, and the image was nothing, the thirst was everything. In ancient times, there was a philosopher named Zenon of Elea, who was famous for saying conflicting words in the same speech. The Justice and Development Party is in power, and this government programme speaks as if it were the descendants of Zenon of today of Elaeli, who, on the one hand, defends the presidency that will evolve into one man's administration, while the legal state, the independence of justice, the separation of forces, is conflicting, and it's funny. The government's programme is a cut, copy, paste version of the government's programme; 90 percent of the statements in both programmes are the same word for word, so much so that the commitments that were made in the government's programme are included in this programme. For example, in the government's programme -- I don't say his face, let the AKP people seek and find and study -- we will grant tax exemption to young people who have started new jobs for three years. However, the law has been passed, even the relevant income tax has been issued, and we call the government "good morning." Another example is the same expression in Davutoglu's government programme: "For the first time, we will make sure that every young person who finds a job is paid by the state for a year." The new government programme includes the same phrases as cut, copied, and paste. You don't know anything, good morning again. On April 8, 2016, Mr. Davutoglu announced what commitments they had made in this reform promotion programme, and we had supported these arrangements as opposition in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and we had provided the necessary contribution. I suppose you couldn't keep track of this business while you were planning a coup against Davutoglu. Again, in the 64th government programme of Davutoglu, we will provide free internet access to our young people. The same statement is being repeated in the new government's programme. Mr. Davutoglu announced that they had done so on April 8th, and he left this House, again in the morning. The transparency section, which is part of the government's programme, has been completely removed. There's not even a shred of transparency here in the 65th government, so I guess that's what it's like to make it official. You already have a mindset free of transparency, control, responsibility; I consider it a sign that the government has removed transparency from the program, that they are not transparent and that they will not be. There were only two words in Davutoglu's program, which was not included in the 65th Program. I'm guessing, since there are no words fighting corruption in this program, these corruption jobs have been transferred to U.S. Attorney Bhrara. Dear lawmakers, we've seen three governments in the last 21 months. The average life expectancy of governments is seven months and six months. The government of Prime Minister Davutoglu, who is in power by winning 317 MPs with 49.5% of the vote, lives six months. We're wondering what those who claim that one party's power will be stable, that it will be in harmony will say in front of this painting. Davutoglu's statement as the basis for the resignation of the Prime Minister and the General Assembly is a full coup confession. What happened? By what right, by what authority, has Kim violated your government? Is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey a palace garden or a royal boat? Is the Supreme Court the Supreme Court? The point where you bring our country to the point of crisis is chaos. Our people are concerned about the destruction of their will in the ark. The growing terrorist attacks during the AKP period, the daily news of martyrs, more foreign policy issues, more refugee problems, more increase, higher inflation, more violations of law, more dictatorial and personal administration, what else happened but chaos? Where are the pink paintings in the economy, the promised prosperity economy? What's a citizen's socioeconomic status, getting bread cheaper? Has gas, electricity, natural gas, fruit, vegetables, taxes, traffic insurance been cheap? Tourism revenues have peaked? The tradesman has become a philanthropist? Did the farmer start making money? Is our export setting new records? Dear lawmakers, to analyze this government's programme, we must first look at the establishment process of this government. Prime Minister Davutoglu of the 62, 63 and 64th governments came to the head of his party and was appointed Prime Minister for 20 months in all. The Prime Minister, who arrived with the appointment, for reasons that have not yet been announced, has been dismissed from his position, as he put it, against his will and will. What happened is a coup d'état. A party leader who has become Prime Minister by the will of the nation has been taken down by an unauthorized and irresponsible President of the United States by an unlawful and unlawful order. Those who call me "the national will" at every opportunity have chosen me. Those who call me "the will of the nation" today are disregarding national will. After all, the Prime Minister, who came with the appointment, left with the coup. Today, the nation's will is oppressed under the will of the Fivepepe. In the palace, parallel governments have been formed under the name of the councils. The expression "fighting custody" is nothing more than nonsense. Today, the Constitution must and does not discuss the legitimacy of the government, created by breaking the law. Look, a warning has come to you from within the AKP. What did a former vice president of yours say? ▪ The profile of politics, the politician, has gradually fallen. • He has replaced all abilities with personal skills. Today, Turkey has witnessed virtual solutions to virtual problems. The AKP is causing problems and deepening this problem, and then looking for ways to create a social demand at the expense of a coup to solve the problem, and then deepening the problem, hoping to solve it. Given that the virtual solution will not be the answer, the crime will again be charged with opposition, parallel structures. Let's see what's wrong. It's not about eating grapes, it's about beating up the farmer. In your imaginary suggestions, which you offer under the name of the President, your main goal is to find a constitutional cover for a personal and arbitrary government. Turkey is not governed by its institutions and rules; Turkey is under a personal and arbitrary administration. Our country is in a state and a government crisis. The AKP's government has no sense of governance and state governance; the Constitution, law, law are defamed. The ruling owners are doing under-the-stair politics. Those who cannot manage are trying to escape responsibility by blaming the system and the Constitution, instead of looking for blame on themselves. Declaring the Constitution or the system as scapegoats, ignoring laws and rules, is an act of indecency. I am the state, I am the law, I am the only power. Look, there's a saying from inside the AKP that if the one-handedness of power were the answer to everything, none of what happened in Syria, Iraq, Libya, today would have happened. Dear lawmakers, AKP governments have never been alone in power for 14 years. To date, congregations have used their power as cults, interests groups, parallel structures coalitions and alliances. The nation's authority has been abused, the national will betrayed. You said you were elected from the same party and the same source as the President. Then twenty-one months passed, and you just couldn't fit in. The law is ours, the judgment is ours, the judgment is ours; the boy is ours, and the girl is ours, but you keep saying it is ours, harmony, harmony. You say, "We'd like to be president now, or we'd better have a party presidency." There's something wrong with you guys; it's you, it's you, it's you, it's your temperament. People don't care, we don't care! Our advice: Stop looking for personal harmony between you and follow the Constitution, the law, the rules. Look, then there'll be harmony, stability. The new Prime Minister says we'll work in harmony to cover up the custody relationship. Good, of course, be in harmony, but what needs to be made clear is that working in harmony is everyone's own duty, authority, and responsibility. You don't run a family company, you run a state, gentlemen; even the company is run by law, by responsibility, by virtue of the law, we are deceived. You have no right to say that. The state and country are governed by law, by institutions, by rules, by duty and authority, by responsibility. You can't use the government for your personal ambitions. In a system, what is essential is not harmony; in democracies, there is no harmony; in democracies, there is no compatibility; there is a need for dictatorships. If the Republic of Turkey is a democratic country, what should we do with the officials in every level of public administration? So, we're going to search from chief to governor, from the governor to the mayor, for everyone to fit in with Erdogan? The thousand stories you've lived in for 14 years, you don't give you a share, you turn around on your mistakes. Our country is on fire, some seeking office, position, authority, but no one shares the responsibility again. You're too busy combing hair while the neighborhood burns. First, you need to run the system properly and address Turkey's problems, particularly the fight against terrorism, which is what people expect of you. Dear lawmakers, all problems in Turkey are being imposed on the system, on the regime, and its name is called a bilateral problem. The problem is the mismanagement of the people, you must know that, O power! Government means law, a law-deprived administration only leads to gangbanging. Therefore, the AKP's request is not a new constitution through social consensus; what they want, in essence, is a two-point text that will establish personal and arbitrary governance: 1-Ardogan is always right. Article 2 - Article 1 is valid when Erdoğan is wronged. One thinker says that if a person has a problem that prevents him from doing what he wants, or even a stomach aches, he believes that a new system must be given to the world. This is the mentality under your obsession with the presidency. Even if you are the party president, if your management style is aimed at creating problems, problems will start to grow in a different way. Mr. President or some of the ruling speakers say there's a situation, I don't obey the Constitution, I don't obey the system, the system obeys me, the Constitution obeys me. Whatever system you bring in, the President will surely be at odds with that coming structure. AKP executives must now understand the importance of the separation and the importance of the law and accept it. The Constitutions are the documents that unite and integrate the nation. The constitution cannot be established as a text that will transform the country's lands into ordinary geography, which will break up this geography. We will fight against any arrangement that will make Asia Minor a community of peoples. The outcome of the presidential dreams that you're after will lead to disintegration and division. On December 30, 2015, an AKP spokesman used the expression: "The new constitution is Turkey's identity certificate. I want to quote the government programme at this point. There is this expression: "The freedom of thought, expression, and enterprise is the only limiting element of freedom for other citizens with equal rights. " What does this other word mean, what does it mean? Who else? What do you mean, the other one? What citizens are other citizens? Could that be such a sloppy expression? Another expression is that we embrace all our citizens with a pluralistic approach. Then how can we be one nation? Another expression is that a system of political representations of social differences is foreseen. What do you mean by these differences? How will you provide this representation? What's that under your tongue? It is clear what this mentality expects from the study of the Constitution. The new constitution aims to redefine the state and the nation. We don't want to think that you're too ignorant to know that the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation's identity is drawn with blood, with life, with the Battle of Salvation, with our saints. Turkey has an identity, this identity is the Turkish nation. The existing borders of the Republic of Turkey are defined and are called Turkey. Our country is called the Republic of Turkey, our country is Turkey, our flag is the Turkish flag. The Republic of Turkey is a national and unitary state, which cannot be divided or divided into autonomous regions. As long as the futile efforts exist, the great Turkish nation and the National Movement Party will never find life and will never happen. Dear lawmakers, our country has become a country surrounded by terrorist organizations. Since July 20, 2015, 496 of our martyrs have been injured, 2.595 of our citizens. There's no one who doesn't know the nature of the process that we're going through today. On the way to the November 1st elections, we will continue the process of solution with determination in AKP's election declaration. So, have you ever asked yourself, what would happen if you didn't condone terrorists by saying, "The solution process?" The PKK would not build bombs, explosives, weapons, tunnels, barricades in cities. The PKK would not be able to stack terrorists in cities. PKK's divisive demands and rhetorics would not be carried into the political zone. Terrorists wouldn't be able to cut roads and collect extortion, and there wouldn't be courts. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're running out of time. As the National Movement Party, we're going to vote for the 65th Government Programme because there is no solution to the problems of our citizens, there is no solution to structural problems in the economy, there is no fight against terrorism that has become a comprehensive and decisive state policy, there is no state, there is no unity of the nation; there is a personal and arbitrary government that exists.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0015par0276	I'll just take a minute. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0014par0278	What exists in this program is the effort to establish personal and pleasure management. As I put an end to my words, I wish you the best of luck to our security forces, who have worked hard to protect the presence, unity, material and spiritual values of the Turkish nation throughout our country. I pray for God's mercy upon our martyrs, and for our wounded, and for the help of God. For those who serve our country at the beginning of its holy work, I ask for a painless victory, and I entrust it all to God. I salute your honorable committee.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0016par0282	Thank you, Mr. Erkan Akçay Bey. It's time to...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0017par0284	Mr. President, I swear, even the AKP Group has nothing to do with its own government program, its negotiations.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0016par0285	I beg your pardon, sir?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0017par0286	I'm saying the AKP Group has nothing to do with the government program, not much to do with it. I wanted to express that, sir. I mean, the AKP Group, unfortunately, is very exclusive to the government and the program.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0016par0287	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Samsun MP Erhan Ustah is in charge. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0018par0290	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to evaluate the precious MPs, the beloved Turkish nation, the 65th Government Programme. I salute you all. Now, of course, my main criticism of the government program is that this government program has no goals, no claims, no authenticity. There's no way this government program is going to create any excitement in society, which we're already seeing from the General Assembly. If you count 316 members of the Justice and Development Party don't have 10, 15. I mean, there's no excitement because there's no government, and the government doesn't matter. It's already clear that when Mr. Davutoglu was sent, Turkey unfortunately saw it. Now, in an environment like this, of course, we have to talk about the government program. I'm going to try again, technically, to evaluate the government program, but this lack of excitement is not the right thing to do. I've been a bureaucrat... since 1989, we've been in this House in different ways, sitting on commission lines, on these sides, and believe me, trust me, this is the first time we've had a meeting of a government program like this. This is a very bad situation for Turkey's politics, for Turkey's democracy and for Turkey's fate. We need to determine that. Now, Mr. Prime Minister has decided that his mission -- I mean, we can't find anything in the government programme, but -- is a little bit like this -- is to find 330, and try to get Turkey to the referendum, try to bring the presidential system. He put himself on a mission like this because if he had another vision, it would be a target of the government program. Could it be a government program with no numerical targets? There's no numerical target. Now, we'll get into the details in a minute. In the old days, it used to be said that at least it wouldn't hold, right, wrong, but at least the community would have a perspective, a vision, a goal. Now all of them have been given up; one mission has drawn itself a mission to prepare a legal infrastructure to somehow bring the country's presidential system. And while this is being presented, I'm afraid this society is being deceived, my friends. When the presidential system arrives in Turkey, it is presented as if all matters of society will be resolved. So, we're going to complete our economic development, our economic problems will be resolved, the terror problem will be resolved, we'll become a high-headed foreign policy economy. What do you call it? It's said that if Turkey's presidential system comes along, let's see what it's like in economies with the presidential system and the parliamentary system, in terms of development, let's see. Now in Turkey, per capita income... these figures I'm talking about are the figures of the International Money Fund, the IMF, friends, anyone can find that on the Internet. There are 26 countries with income over $25,000 per person. 21 of these 26 countries are run by the parliamentary system as we are, two are ruled by the kingdom, one by the presidency, and only two by the presidency. So only two of the world's 26 most advanced economies have presidents. Have fear of God. I thought the presidential system was in rich economies. Is that even possible? I thought if we went into the presidential system, our economy would get rich, too. So if you're looking for a relationship, there's something wrong between the system and wealth. So the economies, which are the presidential system, are not the developed economies, these are the economies that are run by the parliamentary system. For once, this truth is hidden from society. Of course, when you make propaganda to mislead society with 50 or 100 television channels, thousands of academics, thousands of journalists, I'm afraid society can't see that. So, for once, the presidential system can't solve any of the problems of this society. It's not a matter of the system, it's a matter of practice. When you abuse the best system, you get bad results, you get good results when you apply the worst system, the world is full of examples. Therefore, we need to save Turkey from the system debate if we want what's best for this country. Now, one other thing: remember 2011, the election statement has been prepared. In the Justice and Development Party government programme, there was an election declaration aimed at 2023/ for a four-year term in the election declaration, about their 2023 goals. Now, I had them removed, in the 2011 election statement, 186 times mentioned the 2023 target, 186 times, almost 2023 all over the declaration. Time has passed, failures -- we'll soon look at the 2011 performance -- when things start to go badly, the number of these things has been reduced, the number has been reduced, there's now nothing in the final government programme of 2023, the 2023 is just nine times without words, and I'll give you examples of them in a second, which are the kind of issues that foreigners call "soft" matters. So here's what we're going to do when we're young, in culture, in art, what we're going to do, it's going to be like this, in line with their 2023 goals. Tell me one 2023 target in the government program. I didn't have these. But was it like that before? I don't want to spend time with each of these numbers. Each of them is detailed, each of them 186 times, and these goals are not present today, as they are repeated, with statements such as $2 trillion, $ 25,000, $ 500 billion. Now, of course, I want to ask. How does it work? As a side sentence like this, it's not clear what it is... in line with their 2023 targets. From here, our friends from the Justice and Development Party will talk to us, and our friends from the government will talk to us, and we'll know what their 2023 goals are if they tell us. Now, of course, it's not easy to say what these goals are, but there's a reason why they can't be spoken of, so it's obvious that when you put $2 trillion in revenue targets, it's not going to find $1 trillion, so it's not going to be reminiscent right now, so it's not going to be reminiscent, it's going to be--
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0019par0296	Tell him about exports, exports.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0018par0297	The exports are $500 billion. You're saying, today it's clear that exports won't be able to find $300 billion, so these goals have been mentioned, but society is being put to sleep. How do you put him to sleep? So this is what we're going to do with youth in line with their 2023 goals, this is what we're going to do with the art of culture. Do you have 2023? I do. What? No, we don't know what it is, there's a 2023 like this. Therefore, we must not deceive society in that sense. In this regard, the government... the ministers, of course, saw a certain amount of that happening here because they were involved in parliamentary activities and so on, but they don't mention it, Mr. President, but it's not. At the opening of a thermal power plant on April 24, 2016, the president said: "Sir, Turkey is heading towards the top 10 economies in the world, and that's why this terror has increased." How could something like this happen? You're looking, is there really such a thing? When the Justice and Development Party is in power, friends, Turkey is the 17th largest economy, in 2002; today, in 2015, Turkey is the 17th largest economy again. So our country is not a step, not a step in the international ring. We're going to 10 major economies, how's that going? You've been in position for 14 years, and we're going to go in the next few years, where are these 10 economies? Now, these are not things that will not actually happen for Turkey... but remember their 2023 goals, 2023 first entered the political documents of the state in 2000, when the National Movement Party was also a coalition partner, with a plan starting in 2001. They were very ambitious but accessible targets for Turkey at the time. In fact, I've just said, even in 2011, they were actually very ambitious, but they were attainable in the event of good governance of the country. So it was said 186 times. But after that, especially after 2008, this country was led so badly that these goals were not attainable. I'm betting here, I'm betting here, so if Turkey can find half of them in 2023, I'll apologize to everyone. Well, that's obviously not how it's gonna go down. Now let me give you a little bit more details of the numbers. The International Fund of Money is an institution where everyone is respected and respected in terms of technical competence. Mr. Secretary, you must be following me. One of our economy ministers is here, our Finance Minister is here. One of our economic ministers, I say, is going to have to look at this mess. We don't have another Minister, he's cooler, apparently. Now, the IMF target for Turkey's national income growth of 2021 is $985 billion, friends, $985 billion; year 2021, IMF, Turkish national income. Now, technically speaking, if I were to extend it to 2023 -- I can't say my number -- with the average growth of 2016-2021 -- I mean, if I extend that trend to 2023, two more years, it's 1,040, so it's not even $1.1 trillion. In case things don't go bad, I'll tell you that. If things don't go south, if Turkey doesn't have a crisis, by 2023, by today's trends, today's performance will reach Turkey's national income in 2023, 1,040. Where's the $2 trillion? That's the point where he stalls people with two trillion dollars, and then he cheats people... You won't find anyone guilty, we're talking about the performance of a 14-year government, not a year, not two years, you don't have anything to blame anyone. So the next number is 1,040, which is $1 trillion. Two trillion dollars is a target, a trillion dollars is a possibility, if it's no longer a problem. Look, Mr. Secretary, we're gonna get into some more technical, total efficiency issues. Turkey's growth of 2008-2015 in the last five years has been 3.2. After that, again, based on IMF estimates, Turkey has no growth above 3.5, or above 4, I'm afraid all growth is below 4. Turkey, in a long period of low growth, which is Turkey, needs to break it, and the things that are going to break it -- we're going to talk about details again -- reforms. We need to reform Turkey. He's not going anywhere, he's not going anywhere, he's not going anywhere, he's not going to reform, he's not going anywhere, so there's just a situation with a name that's not his own. Unless he reforms, there is absolutely no chance that Turkey will overcome these challenges. Now, here's to income per person. Look, the revenue target for 2023 people is Turkey's $25,000. When we look at the figures of the IMF, the figures of the IMF are 11.945 for 2021. Look, guys, $11,945 per person. When we bring it back with that trend, with an increase trend, for 2023, at best, if there's no crisis, the next number is 12.961; 13 grand. Where's the $25,000, where's the $13,000? Even though such a thing is still hidden in secret, it is a mockery of the nation to speak of such a timid, shy act, because their aim is 2023, even though it is still hidden in secret. So, I ask these ministers today to tell us what these 2023 targets are. The government has a lot of institutions, bureaucrats who can do all these accounts better than me, experts. Now, let me tell you something else -- friends who follow my speeches here will know -- that I've always done this evaluation, and the economy of Turkey has been good until 2007-2008, and it's been a great performance. I've always appreciated that, and I've always said that. Of course, the foundation of this is that structural environment from the government, where the previous government, which is also a coalition partner, is the government. So, structural reforms have been done, a clean environment has been taken, and the global climate is appropriate, and a powerful power has come, and Turkey has performed until 2007. What's the growth? It's 6.9. But, look, it's important to keep this out of sight: The average growth of developing countries in the same league as us is 7.7. I mean, it's not just us growing up. At the same time, in developing countries, their inflation is 55... look, no one knows it, no one talks about it in this country. Now, if we had asked some of our friends, a lot of AKP MPs -- I'm praising these -- this is what we've done in the world, and this is what we've done in 100 percent of inflation. I mean, Turkey has done very important things during the 57th Government period, inflation from 100 percent to 27 percent in its history, the last series of inflation starts in 1983. The lowest inflation in its history has been during the rule of the National Movement Party in Turkey. You have to see these. The 1990s were difficult years for developing countries, from 55 per cent inflation, developing countries came to 7 per cent inflation in 2003-2008. Look, I'm not talking about Turkey's inflation, but the average inflation of developing countries in the 1990s was 55, and we were a little bit more than that, so they brought it from 55 to 7, so we brought it up from 65 to a little bit more than 67. So, therefore, there was a positive performance for developing countries all over the world in 2003 and 2008, and we followed that performance. What did we follow him with? This isn't about reforms from the government. I asked the Minister of Finance openly here, I said, "Give me one reform." He's here again, I'll say it again. So outside the public financial administration and outside the Court's Law -- we got the Law back by formatting it three times -- one for me, about the economy -- Mr. Lightning here, they'll talk -- they'll say reform, we've done this job to open the way for this country on economic issues, let's discuss it here.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0020par0305	No, it's not reform for Reza to close the deal!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0018par0306	The last thing the Minister of Finance says is that we've taken out the Public Finance Act. I said, "Fear God, give up." So, the Finance Minister told us here, like a law in the AKP, that was passed during the NGP period. I mean, let them come, let them tell us, let's discuss it here. This is the People's Assembly, I want to discuss it here. Let's sit here and talk this through. Now, export... there's no need to discuss exports, because our minister Mustafa Elitaş of Allah has been removed from the Ministry, so they've survived further humiliation, but I don't know what he's going to do when he's acting as the group's vice president. I mean, it's like $500 billion is still going to happen, and he's here to tell us about the budget talks...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0021par0308	How do you talk to a minister, say you're mean, talk to him with a little more courtesy? That's no way to talk to the government's ministers.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0018par0309	Do you know what kindness is? Courtesy is whether or not to mock this nation.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0021par0310	Don't insult the Ministry, don't insult it, don't mock it.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0018par0311	Do you know what kindness is? Politeness is a matter of speaking the truth in this country. So you, $300 billion...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0021par0312	You don't speak the truth.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0018par0313	Here, your ministers are here, your bureaucrats are here, so they can tell me that there's one error in the numbers you've given me, and there's one error in your assessments. 500 billion dollars of exports today, over $300 billion, for 2023, let one of them claim, let's talk numbers. Oh, why am I saying this now? Let's see...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0021par0314	You'll speak with kindness, and you won't mock the numbers.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0018par0315	I mean, a person's mirror is a job. Now let's see, in 2011, for example -- they made a claim, they voted, and they ruled over the country. In 2011, in the election statement and in government programmes, we will reach revenues per trillion dollars per person. They came from this nation, and the point came at 722 billion dollars. We're going to raise $14,000 per person in this country. They said it's going to be $9,260. Again, in unemployment, we will reduce unemployment to 7.9 percent. They said, "The point of unemployment was 10.3 per cent year-on-year in 2015." In export -- it's funnier -- we've been aiming for 201.2 billion dollars exports. They said, they shouted, they talked about it all over the place, they voted with it, they voted with it, they got $143.9 billion in exports. Now, technically, you can understand that once, when you're doing this, a very small person with a tiny brain, 201 billion dollars 2015, 277 billion dollars 2018 and 500 billion dollars 2023, how are you going to make $500 billion in 2023 when some of you are down $70 billion? So there's no chance that this could be over $300 billion, or at least $340 billion, depending on the altitude of $340 billion. I'm a member of this country, and I want all of this to happen, and I want these goals to hold, but unfortunately, we're talking about them. It doesn't look like any of this is gonna happen. Now, we've established a relationship between the performance until 2008 and the next performance. Now, in 2008, you know, Turkey also wanted to express these real numbers -- $10,444 per person's income, in 2008. We told him what his reasons were. Now, in 2015, we call it $9.261, but there's inflation in the dollar, so let's realize it, it comes to 2008 per person, let's say it's real. When we told you, the amount of revenue per person of 2008, $10,444, went down to $8,411 in 2015. Based on the IMF forecast, when we turn it into real, look, the income per person is $9.664 per person with the IMF price of 2008 on real basis, friends, under 2008. 2008-2021, how many years? Thirteen years. Thirteen lost years of Turkey. And when we take 2023, it's $10,125, and at 2008 prices, it's still below 2008. 2008-2023; 15 years? Fifteen lost years of the country. Let's hope this country gets rid of the Justice and Development Party government as soon as these trends are reversed, and there's nothing else to do. Now, in order to keep these goals in line -- and I'll tell you the number if they're still going to say it, it's easy to calculate -- over 20 percent per person income and over 20 percent dollars of dollars that this country needs to provide growth, but then it can hold these goals, but I've just said that it's not going to happen, even in 2013, we're going to be under 2008 on a real basis. So there's no way they can hold it. Now, actually, there was a lot to say. Here, we're an economy with low savings, low investments. So what we're not supposed to do is increase factor efficiency. What we call factor efficiency, we need to fix our legal system, so we need to establish the neutrality of the courts, we need to fix our labor market, we need to fix the business environment, we need to deal with corruption. When we look at all of this, Turkey is going backwards, folks. So in the Corruption Perception Index, how many points is Turkey last? 13 steps are going down. So I'll give you one example: the U.S. Attorney's statement regarding Reza Zarrab. It's very hurtful to my country, and it's the number one example of Turkey's foreign policy going bankrupt. What the prosecutor says is that if he goes to Turkey, it becomes impossible to return it. The defendant bribed high-ranking Turkish officials...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0022par0322	I'll add a minute, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0018par0323	Thank you, Mr. President. He'll make you do your job, he says. Look, I mean, this, for once, is extremely hurtful to our country. An American prosecutor can't say that to my country. My foreign policy, for once, should be a deterrent. Even if he thinks about it, he can't say it. But what else is important for us? We're here to criticize him for saying that, but if he can say something like that to my country, it's bad for us, but he's got enough evidence to say it. He was released a week later when we let this guy in. What's the reason for his release? If I speak, everyone will be burned. He said, "He is released immediately." I mean, it's not a waste of time. So you have no investment, no savings, no legal system, how to raise this country. Mr. Cevdet is there, and I got the number from him in the Plan and Budget Commission. During the 2007-2014 period, the legal system, meaning the system of the system, is a negative 0.6 percent of the country's growth every year. There's no way this could happen without healing this place. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] After all, I wish the government's programme to be good for our country, for our nation, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0023par0329	Thank you, Master Erhan. Sir, it's up to the People's Democratic Party Group. The first speech belongs to the MP of Adana, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş. Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0024par0334	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yes, I have made a promise on the government program on behalf of our group. Honestly, I'm not sure if there's a government program meeting going on right now. So, right, we're talking about this program in style, and we're talking about this program, but the ruling party MPs, who own the government program themselves, who are behind it, didn't pay any attention to the reading and negotiations of this program. This shows that the meeting of the government programme does not have much value in these talks, in fact, to all Turkey right now. You'll appreciate that at the convention, all the MPs have renewed their faith in the palace once again. Standing up, they watched the President's speech in a state of great readiness, and they gave their applause. Well, that's where they wanted to be seen. They listened here, they didn't listen, it doesn't matter what's on the government program. Let this be a lesson to all Turkey. So that's what I'm saying so they can see this view. Yes, indeed, how the government program was prepared, how it was created, how this new government was formed, how former Prime Minister Davutoglu was taken, all of which we lived in a sort of cartoon mode, accelerated in speed, and that is, yesterday when Davutoglu was Prime Minister, Mr. Bölli Yıldırım was the new Prime Minister; he is not the new Prime Minister; by the way. The government program has left the government. That's why I call it a cartoon. Everyone, all of Turkey has learned from days before who will go, who will be Prime Minister, which ministers will change almost everything, but there is something even funnier: there is no excitement, friends, in order to create a wave of excitement in Turkey; there is no excitement, let's not deceive ourselves. After all, we all know who decided what, how this government changed, the codes for the coup. Therefore, I'm not sure if we should talk about the government program today, or whether it's court policy, but it's imperative that we consider the government program's original background. We really need to discuss what the operational court programme is right now, and we need to discuss the authoritarian policies that are in effect. Yes, today, if we enter the government program, those who write "Personalist, Libertarian, Democracy" write, "If you're Turkish, then obey." They write their slogans. The government programme promises a community where everyone freely expresss their opinions, but because of the opinion of lawmakers, we can also say that even the National Security Council has been discussed because of its opinion, that it is called the extension of terrorism, and that we are operating in a parliamentary operation where none of us have freedom of thought or expression. And of course, right now, Turkey is in freedom of expression between 197 countries, between the countries that aren't free, and it's better to state that. Now, we have a new constitution priority. It says in the new government programme. It's a new system against custody. They really say that, but they also say that under guardianship. What's it like? You know, some things don't work out with acceptance. You may have accepted custody voluntarily; the government; the Prime Minister, the Council of Ministers, a party; we will continue our journey through this custody. They may say so. But this does not indicate that the antidemocratic property of custody is illegal, its illegalness, its Constitution. That's right, so there's a custody, and this custody isn't classified like that, it's publicly, publicly, publicly announced to all Turkey and the world. Right now, the sole focus of custody is the palace, and as I say, we offer it to our people again for accepting and commending the wards. Indeed, the new constitution here is among the priorities of citizens, peoples in Turkey and, of course, our party. A new constitution, pluralist, based on women's freedom, covering all differences, is the basic longing of Turkey, but this is certainly not what we're talking about when we say the new constitution. When you say the new constitution, it's actually direct pressure of the palace right now, the introduction of the palace administration, the presidential system, and the promotion of authoritarianism. Hence, the public's feelings, longings, and expectations are often ridiculed. Yes, really, without a climate of peace, without freedom of thought and expression, without freedom of press and freedom of expression, without freedom of political parties, free and free politics, how should the new constitution be free? Without discussion, discussing this constitution from one centre and managing it in the coming days of dictatorship is also a very serious portent of fascism. They also say about rights and freedoms, and it is tragic that the state's right to identify and dictate to society during AKP rule has been eliminated. However, during the AKP's rule, a Sunni Turkic understanding in the country was structured as a fundamental ideological and cultural line. This understanding, on the outside, was publicly expressed by the Middle East and especially by the jihadist groups of the Selefi in Syria. We will secure the rights and freedom of the citizens. My dear friends, I have six regrets, three of which are under the immunity of the chair. All of our files are in this way, within the scope of freedom of thought and expression, but they can be a subject of prosecution to prosecutors. It's probably a luxury to discuss the rights and freedoms of a citizen when even we're dealing with this. Of course, there's plenty of equal citizenship here and the emphasis that justice is institutionalized by the AKP's hands in the government programme. Here is a 100 per cent contradiction with the fact that Alevis, Kurds, other groups of beliefs cannot benefit equally from constitutional citizenship. Particularly recently, the president's unique nationalist and sectarian character of the AKP's rule has been revealed by the concept of one, one, one, and one, rhetoric, one religion in practical life. Yes, the Kurdish problem is the fact that Turkey's most important issue is the Kurdish issue, whether it is from HDP or not, it is a matter on which everyone agrees. Turkey cannot democratize without the Kurdish issue resolved, and the Kurdish issue cannot be solved without Turkey's democratisation. But in this program, there's no Kurdish problem, they pretended they didn't exist. The solution process is not read; it is often emphasised on effective combat, counterterrorism. Yes, we've been having an active struggle for months. We know how to deal with the mass murder of civilians. By not writing the Kurdish issue here, the Kurdish issue doesn't disappear, it doesn't evaporate. The lack of reference to the solution process is one of the government's greatest contradictions and handicaps, and it is doomed to failure. The way he handled this issue with security policies has revealed how insincere his approach to this matter was. In the last period, the part about the solution had fallen on the road. They explained it, it fell off the road, it's a computer file. It's probably not where he fell this semester, or he was thrown out, but where he was dumped, I'm sure government officials will really explain it. The fact that the solution to the Kurdish issue will be with a democratic constitution, that it must be resolved with equal citizenship and freedom, has been repeatedly expressed by our group from this platform. The government programme ignored the demand for rights and freedom of nearly 25 million citizens in Turkey. This is one of the greatest handicaps of the government. It's the principle that the security issue is bound to the rule of law, and the pain really makes us laugh when we don't want it. It's one of the most ironic things. How to talk about rights and freedoms in this government program, I really want to put a big question mark on it. Because in this matter of accountability and the rule of law, they've collected empty, long sentences from the above-national principles, but they're never read in practice. Don't forget for a single moment that over the rule of law and non-violence of civilians in the recent blockades, more than 700 people have lost their lives. Turkey hosted the United Nations Humanitarian Summit, but couldn't sign the Human Summit Conspiracy. Yeah, how could he sign it, what face would he sign it with? In fact, I'd like to express to you personally that I appreciate your attitude, because if he had signed under the declaration, he would have had to fulfill it. He has already declared that as a result of the Human Summit, I will continue in violation of human rights and continue killing and killing people. He has declared that he will continue to torture. If they had written the security part here, I would have appreciated it with great appreciation: "The security of the citizens is not important, but the security of all the centers of power is important; this is the real security policy. I don't know if we need to talk about the justice system. Our Minister of Justice, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, spoke at the Grand Congress on April 23rd. If there was time, I'd like to read all that speech here again. Indeed, a Minister of Justice, a lawyer, an MP, and he is having this conversation with a completely contrary infrastructure to the Constitution. We have all the talk ahead of us, but these sentences probably give you an idea: Mr. President, the road is our way, your cause is our cause, your goal is our goals. On April 23rd, in an effort to look cute to teachers, managers, the Minister of Justice signed another shame certificate in Congress, and all the codes of the justice system work just like that, and so on in our lives. The European Parliament Report on Turkey noted the decline in the areas of democracy and the legal state of 2016; it noted that it was quickly removed from the Copenhagen Criterians in some areas, including independence of the judiciary, freedom of assembly and freedom of expression, respect of human rights and the legal state. Again, we have seen with a great example how the real responsible are protected in the Ensar Foundation and in the homes and dorms of KAIMDER. A single person has been punished and sentenced to the highest penalty in a trial unprecedented in Turkey's history so that the background doesn't show up. We're close followers of all of them. Yes, indeed, dear friends, in the 14-year period of AKP rule here, in violation of law and Constitution, the laws of the law, the bags, the laws, the regulations, the regulations, and the notifications have transformed the legal system. The Public Contraction Act and changes in other laws are a clear example of this. We actually have very serious criticisms about all of this, but we don't have the ability to express them in 20 minutes, in a total of 40 minutes. And in part of the program, there is also a part of the program that states that as a government, we will be implementing facilitating practices for women, children and disabled people in the justice system. I'll tell you more about the woman's record in a few minutes. In this regard, the Istanbul Convention -- despite all demands, despite all reactions to the women's movement -- remains standing in the middle before its requirements are met. Dear friends, the lack of confidence in the judiciary is often highlighted by ruling party officials. I'll read you two passages. On April 22, 2016, the president of the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors argues that our days were the most embarrassing period in the history of the Republic in terms of the judicial system. Again, Supreme Court President Ismail Rüğ Cirit said: "Trust in the judiciary was 70 per cent, now it has fallen to 30 per cent. Why should we trust in your judgment?" If you don't trust the judgment you're building, we don't have any delusions of judgment to rely on. Since we feel that the judiciary is not independent and neutral and that you have confirmed and justified us both with your explanations and practice, we will not go to the deposition. We will never show confidence in this judgment. Let me just say that from here. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear lawmakers, indeed, the approach of women to this ruling party is this: We examine the AKP's women's rights for women, women's murder and women's violence every year in the 14-year period as well as the AKP's election declarations, the AKP's government programmes, what appeals this time to women, what gives women their rights, what legitimacy and rape under which law, program or regulation. When we look at it this way, when we actually hold this mirror, it looks like a horrible painting. In this mirror, it appears that laborless laws that force women into family, violence, poverty, and exploitation are the mirrors of AKP (AKP), which force women to work and to work and to work and to work and to live in the name of Neoliberal exploitation policies. The product of colonial violence and sexist fascism, especially developed in the Kurdish provinces under the blockade, is the mirror of the AKP, the largest crimes of the 21st century. Women who were killed with dozens of bullets in the middle of the street are the mirrors of the hundreds of thousands of women and children who were raped in home, school, street, dorms, buses, refugee camps. In the cities under the blockade, the women's bodies exposed are the mirrors of the AKP. The mothers whose children were slaughtered in their mother's arms, the children who were slaughtered in their mother's arms, the women who were shot in the stomach, even though they were pregnant, are the mirrors of AKP's babies who were murdered before they were born in their mother's wombs. The mirror of AKP is the image of 11 children's mothers, who were deliberately targeted, watched in agony, and left to rot on the ground for days. Yes, this mirror, I'm afraid, contains a lot. Finally, I say this approach is hostile to life and women. In Kurdish it's a synonym for.......... x). Women and life. Life is a... a... ax is a life. The AKP is the enemy, and this is really, despite this mentality, women will continue to resist and continue to work. This mentality will be defeated by women's will and women's struggle for freedom. We also know and understand that one of the main aims of expelling HDP (HDP) from Parliament is to remove this woman's will, the strong woman's stance, and the liquidation. Dear friends, I have a lot to say about Turkey, but I'm afraid we've reached the end. What is really powerful Turkey? Could a quiet, passive, passive, nonresponsive Turkey be strong, targeted, destroyed, arrested, killed, expelled, fired? Who is strong Turkey? What do you mean by strong Turkey? There's no doubt that a government that piles up the army of soldiers and police against the slightest opposition will never build a strong Turkey. Turkey has NATO's 2nd most powerful army, but Turkey has the highest civilian mortality rate among NATO countries. Yes, indeed, Turkey's strength is measured by the use of rights and freedoms of its citizens, measured by the economic level, measured by rights and freedoms.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0025par0363	I'll give you a minute, ma'am.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0024par0364	I'm going to spend the last minute in foreign politics, dear friends, not enough. Indeed, we have a President, the Secretary of State. In fact, he deserves every adjective, but our Secretary of State has set the whole policy from beginning to end. And really, let me just say the anti-Kurdish thing about it. Of all the words written on foreign policy, there is not a single Kurdish statement. Kurdistan, one of his most important business partners, is not once included in the program. An understanding that ignores Kurdish and Kurdistan so much is impossible to be strong on a regional scale. And you must have forgotten Egypt, dear friends. With those signs of Rabia, with those artificial cries, there is no reading of Egypt in the government program today. Have you given up, or have you decided to support Sisi? I'm saying we really want to hear it from government officials, and I want to finally say that we can't vote on this government's program.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0026par0369	Second speech on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0027par0370	Mr. President, in his speech, Ms. Meral made a heavy taunt called the AK PARTY, which legitimized the pressure and rape of the woman. There's more teasing, but that's enough for 69.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0026par0371	You want to talk about it now? You have a speech.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0028par0372	Wait, maybe I'll be picking on you!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0027par0373	Yeah, I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0026par0374	If you'd be so kind as not to have another pick-up, sir. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0027par0378	Mr. President, dear friends, there's been no joint notice at the Human Summit in Istanbul. You should know that. There have been various groups of notifications among themselves.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0029par0379	It came out, and you didn't sign it.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0030par0380	You didn't sign it!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0027par0381	Turkey has joined, they have disagreed; demagogy is not necessary.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0031par0382	There's nothing in it that requires participation.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0027par0383	The most important group there was the Declaration of Human Principles, attended by 72 countries based on the European Union; Turkey signed it, and you probably didn't follow it enough.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0032par0384	We followed it pretty well.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0027par0385	What, on the other hand, is the AK PARTY government that legitimizes rape of women? Is that a criticism?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0033par0386	No, it's real.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0027par0387	It is clear what the AK PARTY government has done in Turkey in 14 years, and behind the AK PARTY are the most women, Ms. Meral; open your eyes and open your eyes.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0034par0388	How hungry are you?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0027par0389	It says "Colonal structure." So he says: you're colonizing the east. He hides it behind a fancy word. It's an embarrassing assessment. Turkey is investing in every region. He's trying to achieve human development, social development; he's trying to solve intergalactic imbalance. Let her go, and let her learn from the history of Europe. He should be ashamed to use it for Turkey. Dear friends, it's all demagogic. He spoke of various manifestations of terror. Yes, there have been embarrassing events, Ms. Meral, but why don't you think about your own situation in all these paintings? When those kids were standing behind the barricades with guns in their hands, couldn't you do anything? Couldn't you have done anything to save one life? It would, but what you're more interested in is dead bodies for propaganda. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0035par0393	You're the one talking on coffins.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0036par0394	Yes, Ms. Meral, please.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0037par0395	He teased me directly, he should be ashamed. It must have been the simplest.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0036par0396	I'm afraid this is going to go on. What are we going to do?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0037par0397	Sir?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0038par0398	Find out what the colonical structure is, Ms. Coral, find out.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0037par0399	I know, you find out.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0039par0400	I'm afraid that's the way it goes. Okay, for two minutes, but I'm asking you, let's not have another pick-me-up again.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0037par0403	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we don't say anything we're ashamed of, but I'll tell you once again that all your actions are embarrassing. Really, we know what a colonic structure is, its applications, its history, its books, its examples in the world. We can tell you, I'm willing to teach you about it. Never forget that during the last curfews in Cizre, thousands of soldiers, police, and special action teams went along with the SAT commandos. The Chief of General Staff visits Cizre, Silvan, and Nusaybin almost once a week. That's the land of this country, yes, but we expect you to explain to us the mass of soldiers and police and the apparent slaughter of citizens. You haven't yet answered for the casualties in the basement of the atrocities in Cizre. They will be accounted for in front of the international criminal court sooner or later. And just so you know, are they really children or terrorists? When you're 15, 14 years old, and you're in prison at 13, I suggest you think a little bit more about the people we see dead bodies of. Women may vote for you, but our mission also came to light by the decision of your last divorce commission, which, in fact, is a manifestation of an understanding in this country that reduces even the age of marriage, brings water from a thousand streams to prevent divorce, and does not accept her as an individual, only as a mother. As women, we know very well that one of the biggest mirrors of AKP power is a woman's rights violation, and we are never ashamed of what we say, nor do we utter a promise that we will be ashamed of. We're down on this one, so we know exactly what we're talking about.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0040par0411	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the second speech belongs to Mr Ahmet Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0041par0414	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party on behalf of the 65th Government Programme. I salute you all. Just six months ago, on November 28, 2015, when I was speaking on behalf of my party here on behalf of the 64th Government Programme, just hours before my speech, our esteemed Bar President Tahir Elçi had been killed in a low manner, and those who came here and spoke without taunting my words of Tahir Elvan that day, Ali İsmail Kormaz, Abdullah Balez, and then his family, who visited the Diyarbakır Bar, said in a few days, that their murderers would be brought to justice, until a few weeks later, those words came to this day, just like Uğur Kaymaz, Ceylan Ökol, Ethem Sarısüluk, Ethem Elvan, Ali Ismail Kornez, Abdullah Balez, Mehmet Tubet, and many others who had not been killed in the war. From there, we express with a very open heart that the barrel of the gun that killed Tahir Evol is also known, and the finger that touched that gun, the trigger of that gun, the Department of Justice and the Ministry of Interior know very well. That's how ambitious we are. In a street with dozens of cameras, security cameras, six months passed, the president of one of the most important bars in this country has been murdered, a roll of promises have been made, but I'm afraid there's never been a step forward. Now, since the speakers before me said so, I'm not going back in. Perhaps, in the history of the Republic, the 65th Government Programme, in which the 65th Government was discussed, the lack of excitement, the lack of enthusiasm in the atmosphere, did not occur during the meeting of the 64 government programs before it, because when we said that the will was not here, that the will was delivered to the palace with a biat culture, the hop shields would probably sit down and learn some lessons from this painting, and they would see our share of rights. Let's just say that by June 7th, the country had three main vessels throughout the history of the republic, three main political vessels. The first is the army vein that starts from the Ithiat Terakki, which makes impacts -- which we are on the anniversary of a coup -- but it's the army vein that takes refuge in the back of the Kemalism cover, who tries to cloak itself with it, who never wants to leave power, who sometimes takes refuge in structures like Ergenekon. This country is also a history of coups. In that sense, the first vein is the military vein. The second vein is the conservative vein, which became politically visible after the 1950s, symbolised with Adnan Menderes, followed by the National Peace and Welfare Parties, and is now the representative of the AKP. But let's say that the third is the third, classically, religiously, sexually and ethnically, who is constantly trying to be crushed, where he comes from today, where he comes from, where he comes from, what cultural, political, ethnic and religious basin, and what he is trying to represent in HDP. However, after June 7th, three vessels fell to two. There are now two political currents, because those who run politics under the conservative vein and the military vein or under the guise of Kemalism have aligned with one, as seen last week in the process of immunity. There are now two main political currents in the country; the conservative vein and the military vein, especially the Kurdish enemy-based, have formed a historical alliance that aims at all the oppressed. All the oppressed, and all the others, and those whose rights have been subdued, will continue to carry out and carry on this mission, no matter the price, with honor, pride, and dignity. We see the horror of the level of the size of this alliance, in violations that have been in the region's provinces for months and live on the peoples. There is only one political force that resists this 100-year-old vessel that we can call an alliance, again, here last week, against the coup, with all its selves, to stop the blood flowing in the country, to prevent the deaths of young people. Now, while Mr. Bostanci was just responding to my dear friend, he mentioned that there was no joint declaration. I'll tell you this: I'll read a summary of the articles that Turkey has signed under 49 countries at the Humanitarian Summit, where nearly 60 countries have joined, and Turkey hasn't signed: the parties must abide by the obligations of international human rights law. How heavy is that, isn't it, how critical? Another article: civilians must be protected during armed conflicts. • What a sin, what a principle to avoid. No attacks are allowed on Sivilleres and hospitals, cultural venues, such places of protection. In conflicts, the parties must take the necessary measures to ensure that civilian populations, civilian individuals, civilian sites are not harmed in areas under their control. The attacks on humanitarian aid personnel in conflict areas are alarming, states should ensure the safety of these officers, facilitate the entrance of medical personnel and equipment. (The final article: ▪ The safe and honorable return of displaced persons due to the conflict should be made. These are the articles you are ashamed of, and you are ashamed of signing them. 49 countries, with honor and pride, signed under them. Now we'll ask from here. Look, I'll give you an example: A statement by the Ministry of Interior and Diyarbakır Governorate has lifted the curfew in Diyarbakır Sur. Again, I'll tell you the statement of Minister Bey: "The fighting is over, there are no armed elements left, there will be no more death cases." But the curfew has been going on for 80 days. Look, there's no gunmen, no fighting, no bloodshed, so, what's been going on there for 80 days? What crime is covered up for sin? What criminal evidence is being eliminated? You know, we're going to remember it as a political moment, the past term, we're going to do the Prime Minister. He said, "We're going to do Toledo." Last week there was a curfew lifted on 4-5 street. It was called, and our friends were gone. No streets, no houses. That's why you didn't sign the declaration signed by 49 countries at this Humanitarian Aid Summit. Mr. Müezzinoglu, the former Minister, knows very well why you did not sign the clause on preventing health personnel from reaching conflict zones and people in need. Because in the basement of violence, both killing and burning murdered people, the whole world watched with shame. For this reason, the United Nations specifically requests that Turkey remove obstacles to the ongoing investigation. Dear lawmakers, let's say, "Look, what's been happening in Tyre for 80 days, why hasn't it opened? No weapons, no conflict, no weapons. What is the government out there trying to clean up? Eighty days, close to three months. What crime has he been involved in, and the 64th government is trying to eliminate him, we want to ask him. For this reason, look, Davutoglu's government has left without notice, there is no such tradition. But budget talks have a budget and a final account of the previous term. And he went, and he went, and he went, and he went, and he went, and he went, and he went, and he went, and he went, and he went, and he went, and he went, So much blood could fit so many young deaths in such a short period of government. If he can brag about it, he can brag about it. Davutoglu has confessed that for a year and a half we've been saying this government has overturned the table in Dolmabahçe, this political power has overturned. We've been given these answers when we said: "No, the PKK has overturned it." But I told you briefly from the bench before, again, it can be continued to a point of lying: On February 9, 2016, Davutoglu answers the questions of the journalists on the plane when he returns to the Netherlands, and says: "We finished, we made the decision of this war. I told all security units to prepare. He says. Let's see why the solution process is over, why the process, where there's no young people dying, where there's no running blood, is wasted on cheap political accounts. He confessed. Again, we're going to do Toledo. He said, "What could a city be that doesn't exist?" A city has been wiped out, and for 80 days the destruction there continues, the destruction continues, the cultural genocide continues. And Davutoglu went again and again and again, remembering, memorable and memorable in twenty years, and I will always rub it in the face of Davutoglu: "No civilians have died in these conflicts." More than 700 civilians died. We're dealing with a reality like this. The Miray baby is dead, Mother Taybet is dead. No civilians have ever died! And Davutoglu, in at least ten years of foreign policy, drove the country into a worthless solitude -- you can say that, by condemning it, leaving this wreck behind. And right now, Turkey has become a country that struggles only with its own domestic politics, living in isolation within the international community. Dear MPs, I don't know... Mr. Minister of National Education is here, and I wish him well, and I sincerely say this to him, and I ask you, please, to listen to what I have to say, regardless of your own personality, this is not about your personality at all, zinhar. But, before all of you, I'm an educator, I've been an academic at the school for 21 years, I'm a social scientist. For God's sake, look, we've seen six Ministers of Education in the AKP administration; Erkan Mumcu was a lawyer; Hüseyin Çelik was a litigator; Nimet was a lawyer; Omar Dinçer was an operator; and Nabi Avcı was a telecommunicator; Mr. Minister was a sailor and a lawyer. There's not a single educator. If we push it, we can accept Mr. Hussein and Mr. Nabi as academics and connect him with some education. Now, I'm asking you, dear friends, would Mr. Yilmaz be the Minister of Health with a lawyer and a sailor's identity? Oh, no.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0042par0431	There is no sea in Sivas.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0041par0432	Or could it be an educator's Minister of Justice? Oh, no. But, no matter what you are, come be Minister of Education because the importance of education is obvious. I also felt it through the pains of my academic career. You can be anything, you can come and do the Ministry of Education, but you can't be Minister of Health with another professional identity, you can't be Minister of Justice, the economy won't be handed over to you without an economist. Again, I'm saying this in a special way from the Minister's personality. I'm saying this to show the importance of education. Despite all this, I hope you'll come up with solutions to the social issues of education in the country. Another issue: Only during this period of power, in the 8th grade, there is an exam that our children who finished secondary school took to transition to upper secondary schools. There are also educators among us, and even if we are not educators, those who have taken this test in the 8th grade know. I'm just saying that because I've been working on it. The name of this test has been changed five or six times. Our kids are guinea pigs. First it was OKS, then it was SBS, then it was LGS, and now TEOG, believe what happens next, because none of us know what happens next, because our kids are guinea pigs. Please, Mr. Secretary, I ask you, it is important for this country's future to bring a criteria for these trials, to bend a little bit over them, to save the name of the test, the system, the way it's done, from its changing properties. Another issue: Since last July, the war, especially in Kurdish geography, has spread to rural cities so far. Whoever was involved in this jumped. But, Mr. Secretary, do you believe that since they may not know your profession, since they know you're either coming from the Defence Industry or the military, they think it's our turn to study, write on their boards, and share in social media. They think you're being assigned and they ask us. They don't know you're a lawyer or a sailor, they think you're from the army or the Defense Industry. Of course, those words, those JAH, they think you've been made Minister according to the words written by the PHH. Believe me, three people have asked me that in the last two days. In other words, Mr. Secretary, as member of the 2016 Plan Budget Commission, Look, at the end of 2016, we'll see that it's not going to let you use it, because there's a huge gap between the part that's been divided into education for the last four years. So far, to get a commendation from both the public and the public for the increased share of education during this period of government, the number is always high, but in the year, other ministries, especially defences and security.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0043par0436	It's more like it's happening.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0041par0437	The reality is lower, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0043par0438	More.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0041par0439	For example, your share in 2014 is 56 billion liras, 39 billion dollars used.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0043par0440	During our administration, the most resources were earmarked for education.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0041par0441	39 billion. There are approximately 32 per cent differences between the split and the split.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0043par0442	No, no. He always leaves more.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0041par0443	Mr. Secretary, we studied the Final Accounting Law for 2014 together, and it wasn't like this in 2014. Look, I'm telling you the number: 56 billion dollars has been split, but 39 billion dollars have been spent.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0043par0444	We've saved more resources from the budget, transferred more resources.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0041par0445	In the end, let's come to the conclusion, now they say that the share of education into the budget has increased in its own time, but let me read to you from non-existent TİK data to you in the last 14 years -- leaving aside the share of education budget -- especially from 8.9 to 4.3. You pay wages, naturally, if there are the most staffed in education, they'll be paid, it's not an investment. Dear friends, I'm telling you because my time is limited. Look, last week, your Manisa MP, who was vice president of your party, but who failed to take over Sunday's congress, wrote in a newspaper yesterday. What we're saying is that he's the only one expressing his victim. What does he say, Mr. Özdağ: If power's single-handedness was the solution to everything, none of what happened in Syria, Iraq, Libya, we want the presidency, we want all the power, the authority to be gathered in one person. One more thing he says, he says: 'Good morning.' When we said these things for a year, we were exposed to all the criticism, attacks, and bullying of this group. Maybe you don't like what I'm saying. Take your time. In a few months, maybe you'll feel the same way. Another thing: Dear friends, we are dealing with a government programme that has no peace in it, with no words in it. We're dealing with a 65,000th government programme, which has no project on how to solve a hundred years of fundamental issues. Perhaps the support of the main opposition has given you a great deal of encouragement because the mechanics of the coup has been galloping. Yeah, I'm talking about the main opposition here, but I'm talking about an understanding, a party mentality. And if not, in the main opposition, maybe I believe that we have more revolutionary, democratic friends than we do, but they can't ever make their minds this line of party politics into a mindset. No peace, no suggestions for solving a hundred-year-old matter. Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Prime Minister, as he read the government program from here on Tuesday, said: "We will continue in the most efficient way to fight terror. I'll tell you what: he's an enforcer, a contractor. Here: Mr. Prime Minister, the most important issue of this country is the issue of social peace. We need a new process. If we call it a new solution process, he'll probably tell us how much he deserves, because he's an executive, tender prime minister, but we want to tell him: Look, the Kurdish rights search process has been watching in an armed environment since August 15, 1984, as a result of denial, destruction and assimilation policies.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0044par0451	I'll add a minute, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0041par0452	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, since August 15, 1984, 50,000 people have fallen into the ground in this land, no matter who we are, their identity, their uniform, their name, their place, their homeland. I want to remind Mr. Bululi Yıldırım, that since 1984, this country has seen 6 Presidents, 11 Prime Minister, 11 Chief of General Staff, 29 Minister of Interior and 20 Governments. Believe me, they all started with your words. The result: Let's be clear: 50,000 people eventually lost their lives, thousands of villages were burned down, millions of people were forced to migrate, nature was destroyed, Turkey's social structure suffered psychologically, severe mental health injuries, but the problem didn't shrink, the PKK grew, it became an international power. That's what brought it in. We hope that we will all live together as a gift of social peace to this country. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0045par0458	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0046par0459	Here you go, Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0045par0460	In part of his speech, Mr. Orator, a promise that would indicate that the main opposition party had given covert support to the government...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0047par0461	It's not covered, it's open.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0048par0462	It's open, it's open; we're fixing it.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0045par0463	It's open, all right. I don't think there's a greater insult to a major opposition party.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0049par0465	Two minutes, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0045par0468	If you want to fight with us, we will, don't hesitate.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0050par0469	Why do you think of fighting first?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0045par0470	The Republican People's Party's position and position in this Parliament has been within the framework of a certain principle from the beginning, a right attitude. We have done what is necessary for us to adhere to the Constitution and to the law. The Constitution, which you are all sworn upon, has made it clear that the parties cannot make group decisions on this issue, and that our president has made our position on immunity most clear. We're not in the mood to do politics for your pleasure, so let me underline that.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0050par0473	Don't mention it!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0045par0474	If we do politics for your pleasure, one day we'll be living lamb wraps, and one day we'll be pooping. We've been saying they've been doing the wrong thing for 14 years, and I'd like to underline it.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0051par0477	Don't we ever do anything right?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0045par0478	You're usually doing the wrong thing, Mr. Bostanci, usually. On this occasion, I would also like to say that our attitude toward immunity is clear, and that will be the case from now on. As part of the secret game, the Republican People's Party is the only party that leaves all lawmakers to their conscience; we did the right thing. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'd like to take this opportunity to thank my congressman. In terms of public knowledge and the fact that we're now members... I mean all of you, as MPs, I've seen no greater insult than this in 14 years, as of today's time. We are here today to discuss the programme of the 65th Republic government, according to us, of the 1st court government. Congressmans, this government has 27 members, including the Prime Minister, 7 members of the Council of Ministers. There's no shame in it, there's no disrespect in it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0052par0485	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0053par0486	Mr. Idris...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0052par0487	Mr. Group Vice President has repeatedly teased our group during his speech. One day, the AKP and the living lamb rolled together, and one day, there it was, expressing something that had nothing to do with a conflicting attitude. We want to talk about bullying, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0053par0488	Mr. Baluken, come in for two minutes, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0052par0489	Mr. Sırrıyya, the Commander will speak.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0053par0490	Is that so, sir?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0052par0491	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0053par0492	Here you are, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0054par0495	Dear friends, we must be misremembering. The spokesman for this party's Constitutional Court said, "We're not going to make this offer say no. We're not going to make it say no." If it wasn't a group decision, it was a group decision: If it wasn't a group decision, we would vote for it, we would support it. We made a group decision. We come from an organized fighting tradition. We argued, we exhausted these processes, and we saw that this would be a step-by-step to the trouble of fascism in this country, and so we agreed that all of our friends would do it, and so we used it. That's not what's so bad. What's fatal is that you don't see what's coming. Now, Mr. Vice President has had much uglier statements about this, and I'm trying to use the mildest expression: Al presidency, give autonomy. If someone's saying that as slander, he deserves the exact same term. You don't know what a struggle and a negotiation is, it's not in your repertoire, but like I said, we're limiting it here. Your Honor has also told us that there are many friends ahead of us in the democratic revolutionary essence. You'd be embarrassed to hear us repeat what they've already told you. Therefore, I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0055par0501	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0056par0502	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0057par0503	There's no need to say anything.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0055par0504	He accused me of dishonor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0058par0505	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0059par0506	He didn't tell you, about the proof...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0058par0507	Prove it, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0060par0508	Yeah, that's a heavy word.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0058par0509	Who told you that?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0060par0510	It's a word that shouldn't be said, that shouldn't be said. I assume you're upset, too?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0058par0512	No, not at all.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0060par0513	It would be wrong to use such harsh words.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0061par0514	If it's about proof...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0060par0515	It's inappropriate, it's inappropriate, it's not supposed to be on this roof.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0062par0516	Let him prove it, and he'll say it, and so on and so forth.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0060par0517	Here you go, Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0063par0519	His alibi is very possible.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0064par0520	How?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0065par0521	Say it.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0063par0522	His alibi is very possible. I don't know which one of you has a last name. The spirit of political negotiations is reflected in the public, its spirit reflected in the public. That is what I said in your public opinion, brother, from the talks of Imralı, Dolmabahçe, Kandil. If you want to know who's the scoundrel -- who's not the scoundrel -- there's a new government here -- we'll explain the minutes of Oslo, Imran, Kandil, Dolmabahçe in a closed session in the House, and we'll find out who's the scoundrel. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0065par0525	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0066par0526	Sir Sýrým Bey, tell me from there.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0065par0527	He spoke clearly, you know, for a long, long time, and he was obviously picking on me, and I want to give him a very short answer and end this discussion.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0066par0528	A new pick-me-up.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0067par0529	What did I pick on?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0065par0530	I'm not going to stand for another pick-me-up.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0068par0531	He didn't make fun of me.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0069par0532	I'm turning on the mike.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0070par0533	The public knows who's a scoundrel. He said, there's a taunt, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0069par0534	Mr. Secret, in a minute, please.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0071par0535	There's no negotiation, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0069par0536	Let's not keep picking on this, please.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0072par0537	Mr. President, the time is two minutes, so the speaker can use it clearly if he wants to.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0071par0538	Let's not get into the whole, you know, "drunk" thing.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0073par0539	But you didn't invite him to the stand, you said he was...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0071par0540	I'd like two minutes, Mr. President, and maybe I won't use all of them.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0074par0541	And I expect you to have a tone that won't challenge a new taunt. You're a man of literature. Please, sir, there shouldn't be rude, hurtful words under this roof, and we won't let that happen. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0071par0544	Mr. President, now, look, you're the last people we're going to take naivety lessons from. We're people who know kindness, grace, aesthetics, that's what we're made of.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0074par0545	Well, prove it.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0071par0546	Yeah, we're gonna prove it. Mr. Vice President of the group left, proving what I said, so there's no need to say another word. He said: "I don't know who said it by name or by name. " This means that such a word has not been spoken. And for him, as an expression of confidence, as a friend who's been through every step of the process, I said that with confidence. If one of us said that, it's despicable, because I know they haven't been told, but it's exactly what it's like to put it out there in public to cover up the shame of a democracy that they've done themselves, because politics is done through the truth. As for your proposal, we don't need a closed session, we have an open session. We're prepared to share everything we've been told here with you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0075par0550	Well, share it.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0071par0551	More than that, a commission like that, if you'd stooped down and left, our representatives were there to tell us the essence, the detail of all that was said, written, said. I end with a single headline: outside of democracy, out of freedom, out of equality and justice, there's nothing spoken there. If you're expecting a speculative bread there, you won't get any bread. There's no bread for you here.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0075par0553	The other day I'll explain in court. You said, "What are they?"
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0071par0554	Of course we'll explain it in court.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0075par0555	Explain them, then, so we'll know.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0071par0556	Let me explain that to you. Which means here, Mr. Group President, we're supposed to be...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0075par0557	I don't understand why you're threatening them.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0071par0558	Of course, of course. I went to Kandil, and stayed there in them for days, and worked for days for this peace. All of this, including your commanders, including our national Security Council, our going to every Imra, our going to every Kandil, every meeting, all the results and proposals we've received from them, the secret crisis regulations before the National Security Council... we don't like them, we favor transparency. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It was decided there, and it was judged there. We have nothing to hide, to hide, to be ashamed of when we get out.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0076par0563	Yes, sir...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0077par0564	Then why did you threaten them from the stand?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0071par0565	No threats. This is the charge...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0077par0566	Why did you threaten me in court? Well, there must be some unknowns. Say those things.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0071par0567	Haydar, I'm going to say one more thing.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0078par0568	Mr. Commander...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0071par0569	I'm sorry, Mr. Altay, I have one more thing to say.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0079par0570	Oh, please.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0078par0571	Mr. Commander...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0071par0572	One more thing, Mr. President. Because it's important.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0080par0573	Give me a minute of my two minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0071par0574	Polemics... look, CHP's giving it a minute. There, the meeting with Kandil was reported as a crime. And I said, "Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President, we're going to tell you the outcome of these negotiations in court." Now, about something else...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0081par0577	We want to know.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0071par0578	I'll give you another piece of information: We've been seeing CHP members as we pass by, if you'd like to take a look at this!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0081par0580	Explain that. Explain who you see.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0071par0581	We don't need a trial, we always explain it.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0082par0582	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0083par0583	Here you are, Mr. Selçuk.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0082par0584	Mr. Ahmet Yıldırım, HDP MP, has made a speech regarding my person, I'd like to respond.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0083par0585	Yes, they did. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0084par0587	Mr. President, our business is not over.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0083par0588	Mr. Engin, please, after Selçuk Bey. Two minutes, sir, please.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0085par0592	Mr. Ahmet Yıldırım has made a statement from the assembly stand, making an accusation against my person. This article was written on Saturday, and it has nothing to do with the AK PARTY convention. Second, loyalty is always important. Politicians in particular do everyone's work, they serve everyone, but they want loyalty in return. It's not right to associate this with the AK PARTY convention. Another issue, one man in Turkey: I have been charged with this. One man's system is always bad, and the blows are bad. There's never a single man in a democracy. The presidency is not one man, the presidency is never one man. At some point, it does not allow the default of power, nor does the presidency allow it, nor does the presidency allow it. Now, I defended the presidential system on TV, in the papers. The presidential system is not one man's order. Instead of disintegrating authority, it aims to integrate. It'll speed things up. The two get in the way of authority. The president is not a king, but the head of the movement, the promoter. However, there are those in this country who have brought nothing but blood and tears to the countries of the Middle East who want to carry the order here. The disease of the Middle East, the axis of conflict, of course, is intended to move here; the bombs that were detonated here in Hatay, Ankara, and there. The AK PARTY is not a party that carries the Middle East here, it is a party that makes extraordinary efforts to say, "Let these diseases not fit into this geography." Isn't that what the battle in Southeast Asia Minor is for? On the other hand, criticism of self-centered or person-oriented politics is not specifically intended for one person, it is the expression of a general principle, the principle. Instead of the national interest of politics, it undermines the confidence of the political institution; it is the nation that is the interests of the public. Leading a movement can never be considered as person-oriented politics. What's a no-leader act? In addition, Mr. President, I'd like to account for the last 60 years... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is the one who saves politics from custody; its leadership is not facing the person, but facing the nation. From time to time, feelings at the expense of severe reactions are the expression of this. I'll take it as a very serious nakisa to move my writing here for another purpose. I've been in persevering politics my whole life, and while I was in politics with Mr. Muhsin Yazıoğlu, while I was doing politics with Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan in the EC PARTI, I've always told the truth, and I won't stop saying it. I live in the name of my people, I live in the name of my government, I live in the name of my flag, I live in the name of my country, and I especially want to emphasize that no one is secular, but God is secular...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0086par0599	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0085par0600	...everyone else is controversial, undisputed God. Therefore, it is not right to distort my writing.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0087par0601	It's been over five minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0086par0602	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0085par0603	I didn't mean Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan here, I would have written his name if I meant it. I'm so brave, so brave. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0086par0606	Thank you. Mr. Engin, you just gave me a minute in advance, so you're definitely going to talk.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0088par0608	Mr. Leader has made a mockery of our party, stating that it is a disgrace to democracy.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0086par0609	Here you go, sir. Use it again for a minute, two minutes...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0088par0611	Mr. President, look, the government is running out of order, and if we extend this a little longer, the government will be standing right here. That's the advantage.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0086par0612	Don't worry, sir, we won't be without government, governments are always here.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0088par0614	To become a Democrat -- like it or not -- you have to have a little respect for the law and the Constitution in the middle; the Republican People's Party is doing it, doing it. There's no need for unnecessary, meaningless pollen in this matter. I am the first man to pronounce the Kurdish problem in Parliament, which opened in 2002, while you were away. The Kurdish problem must be solved, of course. Maybe that's what everyone wants, but everyone wants their own window. According to the other three political parties in parliament, we are the only political parties who can speak to each party about this matter, with three of them looking out their own windows. Can you, with another party, with the other you, with this, take such a policy? We didn't enter that commission; it's one of the most righteous things our party has ever done. We wanted that Commission to be formed with equal representation of four political parties. In a commission such as that, I'd like to know what kind of solution you'd expect, what you'd expect, in a commission of 60 percent of the AKP people. You went and sat down, well, did you put up a sentence, a paragraph? Nothing. It's easy to come in here and talk like that.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0089par0619	And what proposal did you bring?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0088par0620	You don't have a monopoly on revolutionism and democratism. Don't worry. That's another job. There's no need to fight about it, there's no need to race about it, but the foundation of the Republican People's Party is on a revolutionary philosophy, and all its members are in that spirit, in that understanding, politics. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0090par0623	Point taken.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0091par0624	Sir, it's time to...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0092par0625	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement from my position.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0091par0626	Okay, Mr. Sýrýr Bey, everyone has expressed their opinion, sir, and has also been filed. Please. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, it belongs to Mr. Bulent Tezcan. I'd like to make a point, sir, that we'll take a 30-minute recess after Mr. Tezcan's speech. Thank you. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0634	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're discussing the 65th Government's programme. It's very interesting that Parliament, perhaps for the first time in its history, has taken such a low profile position while discussing a government program. This, I think, is due to the low profile debate that entered our political literature during the government's establishment, and I have nothing to say to Parliament; from its own window, I think the Turkish Grand National Assembly is also likely to approve of such a reaction. Dear friends, we had an election on November 1, 2015, and the 64th government programme, which was established after that election, was read, discussed, discussed, voted on. After that, the government received the vote of confidence by Parliament, but once again, a political operation was carried out within the ruling party, and then, on the 4th of May, the government was ruled by a palace coup. You know, in our history, it's called Abdülhamid's condition, it's called Abdulaziz's state, and now we've had the death of Davutoglu. Dear friends, now, there's been another discussion behind this, and we're facing a low profile debate. Everyone line up, I'll be the lowest profiler. There's a race going on. In fact, normal competitions are the best. I'm the best. I'm afraid we've won something new in our political history: the race to choose the lowest profiler! I'm here to make an offer to the head of CPS. From now on, they'll add this to their college exams. Who's the lowest profiler, let's pick him objectively. Dear friends, as a matter of fact, it's not a government issue; it's a profile problem, it's obvious. We don't mean that. The problem is a profile problem, and it's something that's actually not a high profile of the 64th government. In that government, Mr. Davutoglu insisted on each time how he was subject to the palace and how he was determined to implement the actual presidential regime, far from the parliamentary system in the Constitution. But, even that low profile came low, and lower profile is the result of the search. Now, my concern is that we're going to have a vote of confidence here, and if this Parliament gives confidence in this government program, it will be a partner in the same low profile, which will go down in history in this way. So, my dear fellow lawmakers, be careful of that when you vote. Now, there's a diameter problem, there's a problem with the diameter of our democracy. Now, to measure the diameter of democracy in Turkey, a new carat, a new measure has emerged: take the way the 64th government is going, the way the 65th government is coming, and you will find the diameter of democracy in Turkey. That's the diameter of democracy. Look what happened during the 64th government period: January 12, 2016 Sultanahmet attack, 11 of our citizens died; February 17, 2016, Merasim Street attack, 29 deaths in Ankara; March 13, 2016, Securitypark attack, 37 deaths; March 19, 2016, the attack on Isklal Street was 5 deaths; May 1, 2016, the attack on Gaziantep was 3 deaths in mass killings, 85 deaths in mass terror attacks. Our total number of martyrs has exceeded 519. In what period? In the 64th term. All this happened in the 64th term, and not one minister resigned, and the Prime Minister didn't quit. The issue of the government's resignation has not even been raised, there is no such problem, a political government responsible for the deaths of hundreds of our citizens has not resigned, but Prime Minister Davutoglu made a mistake: he was in a hurry to meet with Obama. That's the day Davutoglu was taken care of. Such a diameter, such an understanding, such a democracy, my friends? If the 64th government was to go, it should have gone because of the bloodshed, not because of the May 4th blow of the palace! That's the point. Now...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0094par0642	If you speak without shouting, we'll listen.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0643	No, no, no. I mean, in case you haven't heard.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0094par0644	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. His tone bothers me.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0645	Look, let's see how this government was founded: the government program was read here on the day the government was founded for the first time. Ya, 27 ministers; 1 Prime Minister, 26 ministers. Didn't these ministers ever agree on this government programme? When did you write, when did you look, when did you talk? There's no history of the Republic, and that's a first. But I'll tell you how it was founded: Mr. Buli Yıldırım went to the palace, when he went to the palace, he was given three envelopes, three yellow envelopes like this, at the same time.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0095par0647	Were you there?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0648	First envelope, Prime Minister's appointment envelope. In the first envelope was the letter of the Prime Minister's appointment, and we put it in. Second envelope right away, no need to leave. The second envelope contained a list of the Council of Ministers. He was given it in a sealed envelope, and he took it. Third envelope after that. And the third envelope -- we're talking now -- had this government program.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0096par0649	Hold it a little too long, they couldn't get it out of there.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0650	All of this has been prepared and given from the palace, and now, here at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, this government programme is being voted on, dear friends. Then get rid of the vote of confidence. What's the need for a vote of confidence? The palace's trust is enough! If the court's confidence is enough for the majority of a political party in Parliament, what's the need for this play and what's the need for this drama?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0097par0651	We need to change the system. Let's change the system. You're telling the truth.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0652	Of course, that's what you want, we'll be there now, you wrote it down. What is it, sir: our first task -- the new constitution, as he calls it -- is the new constitution. Dear MPs, what new constitution, what new constitution? Did you apply the existing Constitution? Is there a system that applies what's written here? Is there a president who fits? Is there a Prime Minister who fits that? Is there a Council of Ministers that fits? Is there a ruling group that fits that, is there a majority of Congress? You will clearly violate the Constitution, and then you will place the new constitution as a government programme. Look, Turkey is facing a process of unconstitution. He is clearly facing a process of unconstitutionalisation by violating the Constitution. Now, I know you're trying to make a theory out of this, but it's about the fact that you're trying to accept the actual situation. Article 112 of the Constitution is clear: the government has political responsibility, the prime minister and ministers; the government is politically responsible, not the President. So -- starting from the first meeting -- before we get the vote of confidence from the House, what is the first Council of Ministers meeting a sign of? In the current Constitution, the President is not the president, he is not the head of the government, he is the head of the administration, he is the Prime Minister of the government, he is the Prime Minister of political responsibility, and unfortunately there is a government in Turkey whose powers have been seized by the President. There are new constitutional debates within this table, obviously a rush and effort to put the actual situation on the basis of legitimacy. See, the 101st and 103rd articles of the Constitution are very clear. What's he saying? One: the president is neutral, he is cut off from his political party. Two: he swears to his neutrality when he takes office as president. Is there a neutral president? No. Look, he campaigned during the election and criticised opposition parties, and we put it aside. He spoke in favor of the ruling party, we put it aside. To this day, he has been the president of the Council of Ministers, in effect, in court, in the illegal palace there. We have put him at a point. Now inside the Justice and Development Party, there's a President who's been engaged in politics enough to operate and overthrow the government and form a new government. Dear MPs, this is a violation of the open Constitution. The Constitution is now officially suspended. The Parliamentary system is in the refrigerator. There is a President who says. There's a president who says his judgment is a liability to me. The regime has actually changed. It says. Yes, violation of the Constitution, violating constitutional order is a special crime in the Turkish Penal Code. What if the president does it? The president is the most influential person at this point because of his position and position, and should be questioned and punished literally.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0098par0657	Bulent, say something else, something new we don't know! Do us a favor!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0658	Now, at a point like this, I don't comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, and I don't respect it. There is a President who says: Now, in this whole painting, we live in a painting where three Supreme Court chiefs -- the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court chief -- say, "I don't know the Constitutional Court."
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0099par0659	Isn't that right? Isn't he the president?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0660	Open up and read the Constitution, is he the president or not?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0099par0661	The Constitution says the head of the state! Read the Constitution first!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0100par0662	If he's not the head of state, then who's the head of state?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0663	And you claim that you will create a new picture in Turkey with the new constitution -- you will now -- in a process when the Deputy Chairman of the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors -- has reached 30 per cent of the judiciary. This is nothing more than a desire and an effort to eliminate democracy and establish dictatorship in Turkey.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0100par0664	Who is the head of state according to the Constitution?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0665	Now, in what environment are you going to make this constitution? In an environment where academics were arrested for signing a statement...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0101par0666	It's a terrorist manifesto!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0667	...in an environment where over 1,800 people have been accused of insulting the president.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0102par0668	Don't let them! You swore at your group meeting. You cursed at your group meeting.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0669	...when the president insulted everyone, he insulted the president. In a place where more than 1,800 people were tried, where journalists were arrested, unpublished books were banned, in this environment, we will do the constitution. You will say, "We will do the constitution." And a liberal painting will emerge from here. Look, let me read you a chapter in our history, so that those who don't know can understand how to run a state, how to run a state. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, one of the people who came to Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, says: "Why are you asking me? Why is there a teacher who has written a heavy logic about you? Yes, he wants him to be transferred to teaching again because he has taken advantage of you. Ataturk asks if there is a legal obstacle in his account? Set that teacher up as the first officer to be opened. (Applause from CHP rows) That was the tradition that took Turkey from those dark ages to this point today.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0103par0671	Tell your president he's suing every one of us.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0672	Now, you're in the account and the rush to wipe out this tradition with your hands. Now, the target is the presidential regime...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0104par0674	Its system is not the same as its regimen.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0675	Good, but you don't even call it right. Everyone knows this regime is called the presidential regime.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0104par0676	It's not a diet, it's a system, it's a system.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0677	This regime is called the bossy presidential regime in political literature. You know how you used to call it a Turkish-type presidential regime? We know you felt the need to make up that name because you knew it wouldn't really be democratic. You know, there's these magician constitutional lawyers, they're telling you about mecallits, these are the names they came up with. We all know that this presidential regime is a model in South Africa or sub-Saharan Africa, a model that is worse and imposes a single man's regime. Look, my dear friends, there's been a convention this weekend. A convention was held at the weekend, and the congress read the letter of the President, who should be neutral in a political party's congress.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0105par0679	Lift it up, they don't see it, lift it up!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0680	That's how the letter was heard.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0106par0681	What's it to you?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0682	It could be, it could be, but it reminds me of something, you know, the Turkish-type presidential regime, you know, that reminds me of something. One photo is from Far East, the party convention in North Korea, and this is the party convention in North Korea.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0107par0685	The chairs didn't fly.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0686	I'm referring the resemblance to our nation.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0108par0687	Exactly.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0688	I'm referring the resemblance to our nation. Now, today, the AKP has established a despotic party state in Turkey, the state of the despotic party. The governors work as governors, governors, managers of the estate, the actual mayor and mayor of the district of AKP. I'm looking at it now, and I'm guessing that the deputy leader of the group is preparing to exercise his right to answer: my dear, during the Republican People's Party, the governors, the trustees were then the party president. Well, that was the only party period in Turkey at the time, and his goal was to go to the multiparty regime -- as he said, if not, there was no desire for you to turn them from multi-party democracy into one party order.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0109par0691	You didn't have such a goal, you never had one. Since you had to...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0692	Now, you're going to control the unions, you're going to control the entire civil society, you're going to inspect the rooms, you're going to inspect the stock markets if it doesn't work out for you. You've created a painting where even the heads of rooms are afraid to criticize the government, where trade unions can win as many members as they can directly support power. It's called the only party order, the only actual party order. You set up a despotic one-party regime. In fact, about the presidential regime... don't forget about Ataturk.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0110par0694	Don't forget, you! We know about Ataturk!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0695	Because, 90 years ago, he saw and warned these wrongs. If you don't forget, you won't go wrong. Look, at the time of the republic's declaration, five MPs are going to Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. He is Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who came out of the wars -- a hero in uniform -- but a big enough democrat to know how to take off the uniform when he gets into politics -- and they say in the republic: "Pasham, come, let us bring up the presidency regime, let our system be president, like in America. The answer of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is very important and striking. Are you looking for new kings? Are you looking for new rulers? He tells you, he tells you, he tells you, not the five MPs that day, he tells you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Therefore, everything said about the presidential regime or the Constitution in this government programme is the beginning of a very dangerous step towards Turkey's future and the beginning of its breaking point. Look, there's no corruption in this program, guys, there's no corruption, there's no mention of it anywhere.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0111par0700	I don't have one!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0701	It's close to 150 pages, I've read it all, I've completed it; there's no corruption. So, now, what's it gonna be? Why should I? For example, in 2012, we were ranked number 54 in the Corruption Index of Transparency International. Well, today, in 2015, we're down to 64.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0112par0702	You're talking about this. Tell me about your shame in Izmir Karaböklar!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0703	So, I mean, how's corruption gonna work, what's it gonna be? Those who rob the great state should not ask for the account of the black sheep here, who rob the great state. There's nothing there, nothing to account for.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0112par0705	Congressman, tell him about the bribe the mayor took! Kılıçdaroğlu protested, Antalya, tell him that too!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0706	Now, of course, something must be answered by the Prime Minister. On November 4, 1999, when Ali Mufit Gürtuna was the mayor of Istanbul, why did Mr. Buli take Yıldırım from the IDO General Directorate? The Prime Minister of this government has to give an answer. The archives don't forget. The mayor of his party dismissed today's Prime Minister, following reports by investigators at the municipality at the time, due to reports of profiling and corruption in tenders. Now, there will be no corruption in a Prime Minister's programme -- this account -- with such a burden behind it. It's not enough, it's not enough, it's not over, it's not over. E, remember there's a story about the pool media. Remember, there's a story about the pool media. The talks of two businessmen Mehmet Cengiz and Celal Kologlu have been reflected in the region. He says that the current Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım has been appointed by the great gentleman, who has been released $100m to the businessmen to buy the Turkuvaz Media Group; $600m in total.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0113par0708	$630 million.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0709	What happened? Well, of course, no corruption! What else? It's not over. You've cleared 4 ministers here, you've cleared 4 ministers here, you've laundered it with your finger account. Now what? There's a prosecutor in the U.S.A., he's opened an investigation, and he's following the files you cleared.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0114par0711	They're parallelists.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0712	Won't this House be embarrassed if something like this comes out of the U.S. court? Won't those who raise their fingers to clear it be ashamed?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0115par0713	The D.A. was a parallelist?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0714	Dear friends, American prosecutors are trying to open what you're trying to close. Right away, it has become a necessity for the judiciary to retake the matter in Turkey. We talked about immunity. And how much corruption can the MP do? He can't use authority, he can't sign. E, the MPs' immunity has been lifted, and the ministers' ministers -- they're close to 700, although their ministry remains. Is that even a painting? Can Turkey benefit from an understanding that makes corruption a rule and systemizes it? Now, look, we understand that the fight against corruption isn't just in their program, it's not in the government's program, it's not in their system, it's not in their system; it's not in their anti-corruption; it's not in their system. (CHP clapping in rows) As they say, he's not in his bed. So the fight against corruption isn't in the government's wheelhouse, and it's not in the program for that.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0116par0716	Then why are you against trial? You're contradicting yourself.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0717	What did the AKP say when it came to power in 2002? He said 3Y, didn't he, 3Y? I mean, what were they? Corruption, poverty, bans. What happened? I told him about the corruption, we passed it, he went away, he collapsed, those minarets, and now we've crossed over. Poverty: What happened to poverty? There are 17 million poor people in Turkey, 6 million unemployed in Turkey, 6 million unemployed, 17 million poor.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0117par0719	So, how do we get this vote? Yeah, you say that, but how do we get this vote?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0720	In 2002, the richest 1% of Turkey's population received 39 per cent of the national income, sharing the wealth; now, in 2015, it receives 54 per cent of the richest 1 per cent of the wealth. You've created a system where the rich get richer, the poor get poorer, the wealth gets monopolized, the economy of corruption is hand in hand, and the wealth is monogamous. Let's get to the bans. What about the bans, what about the bans, the third Y? For the first time, the unpublished book was banned, and the author of the book was imprisoned during the period of these governments, during the AKP administrations. Look, we're number 151 in 180 countries in freedom of the press. In 180 countries, we are number 151. Journalists are under arrest. I've just told you, we're behind Afghanistan in press freedom, under arrest for signing signatures, no matter what its contents.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0118par0722	Criticize, don't insult.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0723	We are behind Ecuador, behind the African countries. Now, as immunitys were removed from such a painting, they said: "We are fighting terrorism." Gene says here, on page 8 of this, the fight against terrorism will continue with determination, including the division terrorist organization and the parallel terrorist group. On page eight, I tell those who don't read, that you vote without reading, which is written from the palace. It says: "Our fight against all terrorist organizations, including the divisional terrorist organization and the parallel terrorist group, will continue with determination." Now, I'm trying hard not to laugh. You raised them both, you fed them both, you grew up in your arms, you grew up hand in hand, hand in hand, baby in rose, you raised them together, you walked them together. Why? (CHP cheers) Now, the Fethullah terrorist group, well, well. Mr. Secretary of Justice again, last time I spoke here, I'm not going to repeat myself. He had these beautiful, praising words about the fethullah Gulen, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, here again. He was a great scholar, a great man. Again, when the President of today asks the Prime Minister of the period on his way to America, are you going to visit Mr. Fethullah Gulen? What heaven wanted and did not accept it, he said in awe. Again, when Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan was Prime Minister, he was saying, "What did you want? What did I not give you?" My fellow lawmakers, no matter which party you're from, haven't the AKP governments installed 160 militant fethullahists on the Supreme Court?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0119par0727	That's right.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0728	Didn't the AKP government hand over the judgment to the congregation? Wasn't smuggling the AKP governments who handed over the entire police force, especially organised crime, one step at a time to the congregation? After the end of the legislature, the MP who was arrested as a member of the terrorist organization, in the parliamentary archives, see which group was part of the party's group.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0120par0729	Tell me about the armored car, the armored car.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0730	So, no such thing, now you're going to hand over the government... Didn't you set up the investigations of the Ergenekon and the Sledgehammer, the plots, the plots together? Didn't you give them all the logistic support, political support, power support? And by "you," I'm not telling the MPs, I'm telling AKP power, AKP power. Now for separatist terror. Good, good. When the AKP came to power in 2002, terrorism was zero, today, since June alone, since June 2015, it has come closer to 600, 519-520. Every day, we can't keep track of the number of martyrs.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0121par0732	Cyprus has passed, Cyprus.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0733	How did this happen? How did this happen? You know how they always talk about me? How did it all happen? Who set up the mobile court in Habur? Remember who sent the state's prosecutor to the terrorist organization, who, what government, what government, what government?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0122par0734	First in history, first in history.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0121par0735	Parallels sent it, parallelists!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0736	You negotiated in Oslo, and after that you made another bargain in Imran. The solution was not only discussed in the Imralı. You negotiated the state order in Imralı, you discussed the administrative structure of the state. That's what Apoh's letters say. See the letter read on March 21st, Nevruz. You sat with the leader of the terrorist organization and negotiated with the Imralı. You also appointed the Kandil. All these contracts went to Kandil. They were approved. They came, they were confirmed. You have made the Kandil, and have struck the wall in Dolmabahce. The work came to Dolmabahçe, and you hit the wall, and it happened to Yalçin Akdoğan and Mahir Ünal, as if all responsibility was theirs, as if the whole process had not been ruled together; now I see, there is no government, there is no group rule, there is no party rule.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0123par0737	How much you think of us, how much you think of us!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0738	Which means the bill will have to go somewhere, which means they've been found.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0123par0739	Please don't interfere with our party's internal affairs, mind your own business.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0740	Dear friends, look, today's President's instructions as Prime Minister of the period are his own, and I'm not saying: "We've instructed the governors in the process of resolving, don't touch them." We said, "Don't touch them." Then these bombs are buried. We said, "Don't touch." He says, "That's when the bombs were buried, and the Kalashnikov weapons from the trucks were distributed, and the moats were dug." At that time, the terrorist organization established a tax office, collected taxes, established a recruitment agency, collected militants; set up a court, made a trial, and they were done before the eyes of this government. Now, these aren't raising this terrorist organization, this separatist terrorist organization... what's raising this terrorist organization, this courage, this spiritual courage, this psychological courage, this self-confidence, and where did they get that logistical support from? They took it from the AKP government, and we know that very well. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, after that, ban April 23rd for the arrival of martyrs in the fight against terrorism, ban national holidays on the basis of terrorism, but let the weddings be free, let the drum roll at EXPO be free, and as for the national holiday celebration, these are forbidden. That's not gonna happen, that's not gonna happen. It's an understanding and ongoing government... Now, dear friends, recently -- you know -- in Ennahda, Tunisia, your sister party, the Justice and Development Party, the Party, the Gangushi.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0124par0744	Not in Tunisia, in Morocco. He's got it wrong.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0745	...congressed, left political Islam in his congress; pay attention, political Islam has left. In 1937, secularism entered our Constitution in 1937. So 80 years ago, Ataturk saw it and put secularism in the Constitution. The movement of Gannushi, the movement in Tunisia, or the political Islamic movements in Africa, political Islamic movements in the world, began to understand 80 years later how important the line of Ataturk was. Now, look, in such a picture, as the world leaves political Islam, the Speaker of Parliament -- now, he's running the Assembly -- he says, "Let's take secularism out of the constitution. Look, while the world abandons political Islam, and understands the importance of secularism, let's get it out of the Constitution, while it's turned into a pool of blood because of Middle Eastern sects and the seeds of modern democracy in the region can be formed on the foundations of the secular republic established by Ataturk. Dear friends, let's all sit down and get our heads together. Turn your face to Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and return to Ataturk. (Applause) Turn your face away from that archaic euphemism, leaving that understanding; there is no future for Turkey; there is no way out from there to Turkey. Look, the same understanding has come to education. Now they're telling you about education, they're telling you... how do you raise generations that can compete with the world with secular, scientific, non-intelligent education; how do you raise generations that will be competitive in industry; how do you create intelligent and scientific universities, research universities? Libertarian, how do you get Turkey into the world's first 20th degree of human development unless you place secular, modern, modern education, which is a modern education that is mind-set, which follows the world's developments? How do you turn Turkey into a country that competes with the world? What happened to education in Turkey? The education foundation, the community, is compressed into a cult absorption. It doesn't matter, yesterday there was the Fethullahist congregation, you sent him away, you had a falling out, now we're hearing about new congregations, new congregations in the ruling alliances. The representative of the congregation came to the ministry and so on. Friends, education is the same. If you compress education into the foundation, the community and the cult axis, you will expose your tiny offspring to illegal harassment and rape in the homes of the Ensar Foundation. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, the OECD reports are out there. OECD released the PISA results. In 2012, Turkey ranked number 32 in 34 countries. According to May 2015, Turkey ranked 41st in 76 countries in the global study results of the OECD (OECD). There are 300,000 teachers who can't be assigned, 300,000 teachers who can't be appointed, but let's turn the whole account into an imam-hatred account of the Anatolian high schools. Well, friends, no one's against imam-hating, so let's get into imam-hatress, get in as much as they want, but do all the kids of this nation have to go to schools that you want? Why are you so hostile to general high schools? Why do you force all general high schools to send the children of all the citizens who don't want to make imams? Is that an understanding? Look, in Istanbul, Ankara, İzmir, all the families say: "Ya, our school is next door -- Imam-hatip -- why did you do this?" You are compressing Turkey over an imam-hatip debate. Look, there's a lot to say about the economy here. In fact, you're not even interested in economics.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0125par0755	Mr. Bulent...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0756	You'll answer in a moment.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0125par0757	Let's hear your party's views on the government program.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0758	This is all government software. Look, they're on hunger strike because they can't get their wages at Zonguldak, they're on hunger strike at New Cheltek, they're on hunger strike at Soma. The workers in Sakarya are in resistance, the workers in Sakarya are in resistance, I can't get my money working hard in Turkey. Police barricades are lined up in front of the shields to take care of them. You've created a painting like this. Bankruptcy delays are over a thousand, over a thousand, only bankruptcy delays in 2015. Agriculture was delivered to the import lobby. We know there's a partnership. Snow, corn, wheat, chickpeas, lentils, liquid oil, whatever... $9.5 billion in agricultural products imports. I mean, I wonder if you'll be able to import the farmer if there's no farmers left after you bring this farmer down, after you bring down the farm? Where are you going to import the Turkish farmer?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0125par0760	We'd like to hear your opinion, your suggestions.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0761	Now, about the foreign policy issue. You know, he tells me, with foreign policy...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0126par0762	I'll tell you the suggestions.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0763	Now there are two basic trends in foreign policy, which has appeared. The first trend is preferable to the first choice. The second choice is to be prepared if you want the ware sulhu salah.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0127par0764	We're waiting for advice, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0765	Look, the first choice was the choice of the men who gave Turkey the National Liberation War, founded the republic, knew what the war was, and were sensitive to peace for it, setting up the republic. The second choice is the preference of the AKP's staff, who know nothing but envy. What happened? Look at what we experienced in the Middle East, Syria. Now, on page 119 of the program, it says: "We are following a visionary and realistic policy. " It is a visionary and realistic policy. What visionary politics? We were going to enter Syria, 3 million Syrians came to us.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0128par0766	What a thing to say, what a thing to say! Shame on you! Shame!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0767	As for those who went out to pray in the mosque of Emevi, their abscess was broken in the Shahah, and they did not go to the mosque. (HPP clapping in rows) Suleiman Shahmah had a breakdown in abdest.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0129par0768	For the sake of God, we ask for advice.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0130par0769	Were you among those who took photos with Assad?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0770	Now, here, Turkey has become a direct front country for terrorism stemming from sects and ethnic conflicts in the Middle East. Because of these policies, it became a direct front country, and we look at the picture that happened there today, the Church is bombed every day. What's the rule of engagement? What's the rule of engagement? You know, when you were being bossy, what happened to the rule of engagement? The worst collection and experience of foreign policy in the history of the Republic of Turkey is in the 14-year period of AKP power. Unfortunately, it's unfortunate. Now, there's another expression here, it's very important. I don't think the Prime Minister's here. I'll ask him who wrote that statement from the palace.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0131par0772	Mr. President, ma'am, he's talking all the time, he's committing a crime, please warn him.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0773	It says here that Turkey has become a donor country in foreign policy. It's right here. What's a donor country? What's a donor? In fact, he's telling the truth, I'll kiss him on the forehead, whoever wrote it. I'll tell you. The donor means donor, donor, donor. Look, my friends, since 2004, 16 islands from the Aegean Islands, one rock, and the islands under the rule of the Republic of Turkey, have been annexed to Greece, delivered. Greece invaded our islands, you gave them to us, you kept quiet. That's right, donor country.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0132par0775	They're not as big as a freckle, they're up on a rock, an island of five square feet.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0133par0776	And who delivered those islands to Greece? Who delivered those islands, Mr. Tezcan, to Greece? You answer to him first!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0777	Those islands... the history of reading. It's written here, it's written here.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0133par0778	Who delivered it? He didn't even have to go to that conference, your president. Who delivered the 12 candidates?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0779	It's not enough, it's not enough; it's not over, it's not over; look, there's a picture here. The museum walks around dressed as a tourist. Do you know who that is? Mr. Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım. Where? He's on the occupied Greek islands. He went to Sheep Island...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0133par0780	Who delivered the Isle of Sheep, and Rhodes, and Istanbul, and Crete? Who delivered the 12 candidates?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0134par0781	Easy!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0782	...when he was the president's advisor, the minister left with his passport and then, as he left, he sealed his passport in Greece.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0133par0783	Who delivered the 12 candidates?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0135par0784	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0093par0785	We have had a Prime Minister on his way to the Turkish island with the mark of the Greek government. Good luck with that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, give me an extension, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0136par0788	Who delivered the 12 candidates to Greece? Answer him first.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0137par0789	Don't shout, friend, slow down!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0138par0790	Mr. President, why don't you warn them? Please warn me!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0139par0791	Mr. Reza, what's wrong with you?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0140par0792	Please, do not interfere, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0141par0793	You had 12 islands?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0140par0794	Congressmans, please listen to me patiently. Here, Mr. Bulent, we'll add two minutes.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0142par0796	Okay.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0143par0797	It's like he had it in his hand. The Ottomans delivered them!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0144par0798	What did he deliver?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0143par0799	He gave it all away.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0144par0800	In 1948, 12 candidates were given by your president.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0143par0801	You gave it all, you gave it all to the world!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0145par0802	Dear friends, as a result, the painting is in the square. It's the government of a Prime Minister who handed over Turkish lands to Greece and a government who entered Turkish territory with a Greek seal on his passport without shame and embarrassment.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0144par0803	We officially gave out 12 candidates!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0143par0804	You haven't left home! You didn't leave any land in the country.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0145par0805	It's the government of such a Prime Minister. [[Applause from CHP rows]] So, since this is a profile issue, we're not going to define our position in this low profile because you're going to vote on the lowest profile, we're going to vote against the government program. Thank you all, thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0146par0810	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0147par0811	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0146par0812	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0147par0813	Mr. President, I'm sure the preacher has been harassing our group, and I want your word.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0148par0814	He picked on the government! The representative of the government will speak now.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0147par0815	He compared our congress with the North Korean Congress and spoke of a dictatorship. I want a word from this tease.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0149par0816	Here you go, sir. Two minutes. Let's not have another discussion.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0147par0820	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, look, they compared North Korea to Turkey, orator.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0150par0821	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0147par0822	But I would like to remind you, Mr. Tezcan, there is no opposition in North Korea; look, there is opposition here. The chest was set up on November 1st. If there's such a dictatorial system, there's pressure, there's persecution, why can't you win the election? You're still counting at 25. So don't do this comparison. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Second, look, if you open the convention, you'll never be able to talk.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0150par0825	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0147par0826	You know why? Look, at one or two of your previous congresses, a congressman wanted to talk, you held him by his jacket, you made him promise, you didn't make him talk. Well, here's your democratism.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0151par0827	Who, who? We've got 70 people talking on the stand! How many of you are talking? Mehmet, 70 people are talking in our congress, on the stand.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0147par0828	Look, another one: he's talking about handling it. Mr. Tezcan, you know very well how your Mr. President is coming. I mean, there's no one who knows this business better than you do, and you're good at it.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0152par0830	Bravo!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0147par0831	Look, Mr. President goes wherever he wants with high-judgment presidents. Is there a law against it? No. Do whatever you want, Mr. President. You can't break the bond between the EC PARTY.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0153par0833	We don't intend to.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0147par0834	He has been elected by the 1,405 delegates, and has been the head of our party at the congress, and will have a vote of confidence on Sunday. Sir, you've been relieved of duty. Look, there's got to be a price to pay for what you're saying. When Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality opens up the situation, a new mayor arrives and the new mayor sets up his own team. It is clear where Bakili received the IDO from during the five - year period there. And as if it were a blessing, we put the country into democracy......... if you could have extended it, you could have lasted until 1950. After World War II, the only party regimes have already been destroyed, and you couldn't take it anymore. Well, why didn't you bring it before? Why didn't you bring it in 1925? Why didn't you bring it in 1930? How did you make the elections in 1945?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0154par0838	When were you born? How do you know all this?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0155par0839	Open vote, secret booking in 1945. How?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0147par0840	Don't try to teach us a lesson in that regard.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0156par0842	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0157par0843	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0156par0844	Mr. Tezcan...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0157par0845	Mr. Orator, there is no opposition in my words. He also made a mockery of the way Mr. President came. I want to answer.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0158par0846	Are you going to tell me how he came along?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0159par0847	Tell me about the islands. Tell me about them, Mr. Tezcan, how the 12 islands went. Tell me about these 12 islands.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0158par0848	He's going to tell us how the president got here. Wait a second...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0160par0849	Here you are, Mr. Bulent.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0161par0851	Mr. President, we don't have a problem with anyone's love for the President, you can love him. We've made our point very clear here. In North Korea, it's true, there's no opposition, and I've made that analogy to point out your direction -- that's what you want. If you can silence the Republican People's Party, you want a regime like that in Turkey.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0162par0852	You don't have to do that. It's just a tape.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0161par0853	What you want to call a new constitution or presidential regime is a North Korean model, a North Korean-type regime, an unopposed regime. But no matter what you do, we're not gonna give you that opportunity, we're not gonna give you that.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0163par0855	This indicates that Turkey is a Democrat.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0161par0856	Now, it's clear how our Mr. President is the President-General. There's nothing he can't carry behind the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0164par0857	Just tell me who made that movie. Who's the director? The director is important.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0161par0858	No Republican People's Party politician is ever, ever in a position where he can't account. No Republican People's Party MP's position has been rescued by majority votes in parliament and attempted to cover up corruption. Our President of the Republican People's Party has come out as a candidate and has been President of the Republican People's Party with his honorable, clean votes, and today he is doing that job well, but we are not telling him what kind of palace coup the president of the AKP went through, he says so himself.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0165par0859	And yours with a tape bump...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0161par0860	I wasn't gonna go, but I had to. Be careful of the corruption of power. He calls on his youth. You know very well what power is corrupt. Thank you all, thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0166par0863	Our president was elected by our votes.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0167par0864	Sir, thank you. Mr. Tezcan had a statement. It's been a long time since my testimony on this secularism thing. I've explained this point, I've made a statement to the press. Six sessions were held on the new constitution and on New Turkey, and on the new Turkey, and on the new Turkey, and on the new Turkey, and on the foreign policy, the economy, and on the new constitution. If a new constitution is being made, concepts must be met with recipes. He entered the Constitution in 1937. He said, "That's right. In effect, the Republican People's Party held its 2nd convention in 1927. Why is the 2nd convention the 2nd? Because the Republican People's Party is based on the Anatolian and Rumeli Defence Law Society, and in the Sivas Congress, it accepts 9 September as its foundation and calls it the 1st Assembly. The 2nd Assembly in 1927: It is accepted here at 4 hope; these are Republicans, nationalism, publicism and secularism, 1927. In 1931, it becomes the 3rd convention, adding 2 more, which is state and English. So, the Republican People's Party has six hopes, and they've been confirmed as six in 1931. These six hopes, the People's Party, alone in power, have added to the Constitution, the 2nd Amendment. Therefore, there are no six principles at the heart of the republic, but there is a clause added to it, just as it is added to the Constitution... I'm not saying it's a Constitutional plugin. Turkey is free, democratic, able to perform its statement that everyone is free, you know, religion, conscience, ideas, and freedom to express that thought. We want it to be a good constitution so that he can express it, and that's what we all want. The gentleman is a lawyer, and I believe his request is in that direction. Of course it can't be like Korea. No one can lead Turkey to dictatorship.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0168par0871	Could it be like Turkmenistan?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0167par0872	Think of a North Korean: He has been in dictatorship since 1946; he dies Kim il Sung, his son comes, he dies, his son comes. And the president who comes in has to cry for his father for three days and puts those who don't cry in jail. How can you bring such a Turkey into your mind?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0169par0873	Don't be so bad, it's true!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0167par0874	I repeat: Dear lawmakers, if a new constitution is to be made, if secularism is to be set free, freedom is to be put between freedoms, forbidden, inhibitor is to be put between obstacles, or described. France has this recipe -- one of the three countries that are secular in its constitution, and one of them is Turkey, its homeland is France -- says the state...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0170par0875	This isn't a conference, Mr. President!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit01spe0167par0876	...is neutral in three matters, religion, politics, philosophy. Philosophy, which is what he thinks is what he is. And politics, any party. It's because without the recipe, everyone interpreted it differently when they picked it up, there was suffering, there was jail time, there was executions, the parties were closed. Of course it's a request, let's not put too much thought into it and challenge demagogy. I'm calling a 30-minute recess.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0167par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 93rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue to discuss the programme of the 65th Council of Ministers, founded by Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım Bey. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Professor Naci Bostancı Bey will make the first speech. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0171par0008	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, I salute you all. May the 65th government be blessed. This government will do well, I hope. The success of this government and the work done by the previous governments will surely be rewarded in everyone's life, a reflection of power and opposition, and of Haydar Bey's life, and your friends here will be a reflection of his life. I meant it as a symbol, Mr. Haydar.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0172par0010	But I'll promise not to pick on you. Mr. President, did you hear that?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0171par0012	As a result, if this government works well, if it gives the country a momentum in development and development, if it increases the bread, everyone's bread will grow, and if the bread shrinks, everyone's bread will shrink.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0173par0013	Yours never gets smaller.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0171par0014	Of course, it is the people who give governments authority to grow bread. When the public gives the authority what the party is saying, how it approaches, what kind of collective mind is disseminating the issues of the country, talking about them, arguing about them, saying things, looking at them, and making up their mind at the end of all of this. The common sense of the nation is sound, very rational, acting in a social and economic reality. So, as a result of the nation's decision, these governments and previous governments -- the AC PARTY governments and previous governments -- are certainly, let's not forget, these are the people that this nation has brought to power as a result, as a result of its comparative analysis and assessment, as a result, these are the people who rule the country better. If it's better, we'll be happy to leave our seats, they'll come and rule. Fourteen years in this country, no matter what anyone says or makes a claim, the result is that our nation is on its way to the AK PARTY. The 65th government sits here today as a result of such reality, in front of the nation. Dear friends, when Thomas Hobbes tells people about his natural state of life, he utters a phrase called,,,,,,,,,,, human being's wolf. I guess I'm thinking about doing a little bit of politics, a little bit of an approach, a little bit of a function of being each other's wolf as well as the government's program, when we're looking at debates, what they're saying. Let's put a little bit of language into this, and let's get a word out of it. I don't know what the political way -- what the public will get out of it, and I don't know what the public will get out of it -- but I think that the approaches that can be seen as a good expression of the social and economic reality of the people, a little bit of Hobbes, as they call it -- were set up by a political politician. Politics is not to be taken lightly. If you underestimate your opponent, if you underestimate power, of course, if you underestimate opposition, in fact, you underestimate yourself as a result because politics mobilises millions of people. Look, the Republican People's Party received 25 per cent of the vote -- I think 4 or so -- HDP received 10.7 per cent of the vote, MHP received close to 12 per cent of the vote, AK PARTI -- you say too much, it's impossible to forget -- 49.5 per cent of the vote. People go on vacations with friends, friends, five people can't stay together for a week, fighting. It's impossible to keep five people together in a resort for a week and have a vacation trip. Politics is leading millions of people in the same direction under the same roof. Respect is needed, especially if for 14 years you've had respect for the AK PARTI politics that have driven half this country in the same direction, that leaned on the nation's will for development, for development, for the development of this country, to take its power from here. You can criticize the AK PARTY, we should, of course, be critical, but that's the kind of criticism we can call a pejorative, mitigating language, the kind we can call a day-to-day mugalata.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0174par0017	Sir, we don't understand.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0171par0018	In the end, it's really unfair to people, it's unfair to politics. Whoever does this wrong, his reward will return to him. Dear friends, this government program is said to be written very quickly, and it has been implied that you have written a bit of an elaborate program. The 65th government, the rest of the 64th government; nothing has changed.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0175par0020	Teacher, there are some who don't understand pejorative, even if you do it again, it's worth it.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0171par0021	That's 63, 62, 61, so there's a sequence.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0175par0022	You're angry when you speak Kurdish, you're talking in a language we don't understand.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0171par0023	Thus, some of the people who have changed, but the AK PARTY has not changed in 2001, in 2002, in the same way that they have made a social contract with this nation. This presents itself as the most basic skeleton in every government program. In 2002, it is also what the AK PARTY has to do with this country -- its basic approach, its basic logic, its sense of service -- to this country. No matter what the opposition says, any mind who looks out cold, objectively appreciates that it's a huge social and political movement. It is established in 2001, it comes to power alone in 2002, and it comes to power from all the elections that were made after that; it needs to be respected, to appreciate that great social and political mobilisation, and to evaluate it rationally. Such large social movements are not built in one day, three days, one week, three months; they are formed in history. The AK PARTY was established in 2001, but the people who founded the EC PARTY came from within this community; Mr. Erdogan and his traveling companions formed this party in light of the experiences of Turkey of the 1990s, 1980s. How did their reasoning, their political dreams, their future vision of this country come about? If you say so, all those who are old have a little bit of an opinion about these visions. The thing that gave life to the AK PARTY, the one that created it, the one that allowed it to emerge as a social and political campaign, as such a powerful power, is in the depths of history, I assure you. Go around Asia Minor, see the people who are willing to join the EC PARTY, and you will see that it was written in one day. You think that the government program and the government programs, which were actually the result of the disappointments, the sufferings, the sufferings, and the challenge. Behind that government program, like that basic motto that gives life to this party, there's Balkan Wars, there's Tripoli, there's the Caucasus Front, there's Kutülamare; together, there's the Yemeni Turk, there's the Chanakkale Turk; there's the challenger who built the republic, there's the strong will, there's the daringness of them; there's a steppe, there's the modern civilization level of power, and there's the collective mind that aims for it together. Thus, the EC PARTI government programme came out of history as the work of a political delegation, a political mind, a social generation, that reads history like that. If they hadn't touched people just like that, in a way that fits that historical narrative, it wouldn't be possible to establish such a big social and political movement. Dear friends, within 14 years, the AK PARTY did a great service. A lot of statistics can be said for you, against you, but go touch real people. Before Turkey, the AK PARTI, so to speak, sociology readers would know very well, it was a sort of -- I'm just saying -- it was a giraffe-like society, where there were fewer people in upper social areas, and the middle classes were weak, and there was a large, horizontal mass at the bottom. Now, rest assured, over the past 14 years, with the work of the AK PARTY, the work, the work, the work, the spirit of mobilization and development, there has been a society that looks a little like a vase -- again -- a more balanced, medium-classed society. The late Özal lost his life by calling it middle classification, middle-classization, and as a continuation of the same political tradition, the EC PARTY made this idea of middle-classisation substantially real in 14 years. Let alone statistics, go talk to middle class people; you can see that they look forward to the future; you can also see that after making their daily expenses, they can save beyond comparison with the past. Turkey is growing, changing, urbanizing, industrializing; the service sector is developing. In a country where all this is happening, democracy becomes stronger, freedoms become stronger. It's a small development that defies democracy and freedom, ignorance. I assure you, if a country's national income is weak, social inequality is too high, if people aren't rationally analyzing what's going on, and they're having mystical dreams, it's those social conditions that challenge democracy and freedom because of the conditions of the society they live in. Therefore, all services done by the EC PARTY are in the strengthening direction of democracy and freedom in Turkey. We've done important work in foreign policy. We're in a difficult geography, a troubled geography. They don't leave you alone in this geography, not just us, but our neighbors. Syria has had a civil war, a disaster has befallen Iraq, and Iran has been in the embargo for a long time. With all this, we're neighbors, and we're a country with socioeconomic continuity. Turkey looked at two fundamental issues in its relations with its neighbours. First, he looked at his neighbors in the framework of a world of justice and justice. The second was based on a human rights-based approach on the basis of democracy. Now, there are two criticisms of Syria that are often directed at us. One of them, they say, is that you run a sectarian policy. It's one of the most spoken words. Another is that yesterday you were easy to handle with Esed, you went to yachts and floors, and now you are enemies. Isn't it a contradiction, though, that these two proposals should be expressed at the same time?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0176par0030	It didn't start at the same time, Mr. Hodja.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0171par0031	If we had a religious policy, we wouldn't have anything to do with Esed. We wouldn't have anything to do with the yachts or the floors.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0177par0032	What does that mean?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0176par0033	It didn't start at the same time, Hajji, you missed the date.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0177par0034	I'll pay for it, I'll take care of it.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0178par0035	Is that when Esed changed his religion? It's not.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0176par0036	You missed history, Hajji.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0177par0037	We don't have any business with the people of that sect. You mean, fix it.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0178par0038	We've always dealt with Iran for good, has it changed the Iranian sect? No.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0177par0039	This job will give you a headache, this job will give you a headache, fix it.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0178par0040	So why did we build these relationships with Iran, with Esed (Esed)? Esed, at that time, his father made different promises than that dictator Hafiz. He promised Syria that he would bring democracy.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0179par0041	Why should Allah promise you such a promise?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0178par0042	He said that social reality there would pave the way for structures that would lead to politics.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0179par0043	Do you have custody over Syria, why make such a promise?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0178par0044	So we said yes, we supported it. Then what happened? Esed became a bloody killer. Because he was a murderer, not because of the religion of Esed. We opposed him because he persecuted his people. (AK PARTY) So what the AK PARTY is doing here is not a cult-based approach; it is a human-based approach, justice and justice-based approach. You will say that we were both sectarians, and you will say that you were easy with Esed. Then you will say that you were enemies with Used. In expressing these criticisms, logical consistency is extremely important. It's in the government program, we care about the family. There's a lot to say about family. Of course, Turkey is changing. It's a woman's... it's an AK PARTY period when women are most involved in public life. The rural population has decreased, and the employment of the women there has flowed into cities. In a much different way than yesterday, ten years, fifteen years ago, women are in public life, political life. So, a lot of speculation over a woman misses social reality. They might miss, but people don't. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, about the dictatorship... People of CHP, they often sit, they get up, they call Mr. President the didictator.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0180par0048	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0178par0049	Yes, you do.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0181par0050	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0180par0051	This is a political criticism.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0178par0052	Have you ever told the late Ozal? You said...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0180par0053	No, we didn't.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0178par0054	Have you ever told Menderes?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0182par0055	We didn't.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0178par0056	You did. Who brought Menderes to power? People brought it in. Who brought Ozal? People brought it in. Who brought Erdogan?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0183par0057	Who brought Davutoglu?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0178par0058	Did he go up there himself, with the tank, with the ball? (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) People brought it in.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0184par0059	Who took Davutoglu?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0178par0060	Whoever people supported was a dictator in your eyes, brother.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0185par0061	Hodja, who took Davutoglu?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0178par0062	I mean, do you think that's normal?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0185par0063	I'm not saying he did, I'm saying he did.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0178par0064	Secondly, this dictatorship issue... was a change of president at the Republican People's Party in 2010. Mr. President-General came out and said...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0186par0065	In what way?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0178par0066	We destroyed the empire of fear, he said. When I heard this, I thought, so there was an emperor in the CHP...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0187par0067	He didn't say at the convention.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0178par0068	I mean, there was a dictator, right? In the old CHP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Tufan Köse- He didn't say in Congress, Hajji.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0188par0071	You're wrong, Hodja, you're wrong.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0189par0072	You're wrong, you're wrong.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0178par0073	Moreover, he ruled the entire CHP with fear. Was it really like that?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0190par0074	I will, I will.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0178par0075	Mr. President-in-Chief, did he speak the truth? I mean, an emperor...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0191par0076	Sir, there's no such thing as Congress.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0178par0077	He did.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0192par0078	You're wrong, you're wrong! We destroyed that empire of horror. He speaks to you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0178par0079	We destroyed the empire of fear, he said. Now, the horror empire has been destroyed, replaced by the new CHP. Mr Muharrem Ence, who defied the new CHP, said: "You are the dictator." Did he say? He did. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] He said, look...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0193par0083	But there's one person who can say, one way or another, you can't say it either! Everyone stands up like Korea.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0178par0084	The CHP is so obsessed with this dictatorship issue that when it does not come to power, it attacks people who are supported by the people, it's the only one in its repertoire -- when CHP has opposition within itself, they attack the power within CHP; there is no other material. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Dictator down, dictator up. You bet your ass it is.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0194par0085	Can anyone open their mouth? One, one!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0193par0086	We'll take the shot, and we'll see what happens to you!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0194par0087	We've got an argument, do you have one that can open its mouth?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0195par0088	Dear friends, I don't really think that CHP has a history of fear or anything like that, but I think it's a political struggle, so I think it's a demagogue in everyday political language, just like it's done with us. If it is otherwise, it's a grave situation; I can't imagine, if there is such a structure, it won't be easily changed, my friends, if there is such a structure, a structure that the entire CHP has committed to an emperor over some kind of fear. In 1550, there is a Frenchman named La Boetie, who, you know, wrote a wonderful book called "Singuishment on the Willful Servant." He says: "It is not his strength, nor his soldiers, nor his strength, but the voluntary service of those around him that lead him there. "
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0194par0090	Oh, he's right!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0196par0091	Teacher, we always think so of you, you've described yourself well, well done!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0195par0092	I don't think that's the case with CHP. What you're doing is just demagogy against you and the AK PARTl.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0196par0093	That's not a good description. Who was it, Hajji? What's the title of the book? Get those transcripts, fellas. I'm curious about the book. You've made a great recipe. It'll never occur to us.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0195par0094	And, of course, I have a lot to say about the terrorism thing, but I'm running out of time.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0197par0095	How do you know, Hajji, from yourself?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0195par0096	We need to figure this out. The only thing I'm going to say to HDP is, look, some people in the past have been saying, "There is a project of Turkishisation of the HDP." I don't agree with them, but I might consider voting for HDP. That's what they called it. When I was walking around today...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0198par0098	They say the same thing.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0195par0099	You're giving me an extension, aren't you, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0199par0100	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0195par0101	As we walk around today, friends, they say, "We don't want Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) in Parliament." That's what they say.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0200par0103	There's been a huge mistake, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0195par0104	I say what the people say, the people we meet. What in God's name have you done? Even those of you who were not present yesterday have a Turkey-based project. They can't bear to have you in Parliament today when they're thinking about voting for you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0201par0105	They're scared. They're scared on the streets.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0195par0106	What did you say, what did you do to these people?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0201par0107	They shot it with a gun.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0195par0108	I know that, but shouldn't you think about it? Since social peace is the union of this country, since no one's blood flows, don't you think there's something wrong with your language, your language, your approach, your politics? To revisit it and reconnect with the nation, don't you reconsider running politics in a kind of place that can relate to all people, not just to a violent, ideological, educational prison based on violence? Edward Said has a saying, he says...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0202par0110	Why did you give me five minutes? Why did you give me five minutes, Hajji?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0195par0111	The real way to defend the Palestinian case is to bring their case to the context of humanity. You couldn't even do that, you couldn't create a language about it. These people...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0203par0112	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0195par0113	Is that why the millions are angry with you? I'll say, of course, there are more words.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0203par0115	Mr. Bostanci, I don't know if Mr. Mush will give you any time.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0195par0116	Yes, I have a lot more words to say, but I assure you, I'm not talking to you about it; this is a negotiation place, so think about it, or there's more to be said. It's a fundamental issue, I'll remind you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0203par0119	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci. Sir, now, the Justice and Development Party...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0204par0121	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0203par0122	Sir?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0204par0123	Sir, I've raised my voice, but you're reading without raising your head or seeing what's going on in the General Assembly. I don't think that's right.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0203par0124	So, what's the truth?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0204par0125	The right thing to do is to keep an eye on the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0203par0126	I see, sir, don't worry.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0204par0127	Well, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0203par0128	Thank you, too.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0204par0129	Mr. orator -- if he didn't accuse us, I don't have any demands -- whoever the nation brought in has become a dictator in your eyes. He said that we have created a negative perception of the people's preferences. If he doesn't mean us, I don't want a word, if he means us, it's teasing.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0205par0130	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0203par0131	Here you are, Mr. Naci.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0205par0132	I told Menderes, because he brought all three of them, because they called the late Ozal, and finally Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0206par0133	He meant us.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0207par0134	He meant us.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0205par0135	Of course, if he has an answer, Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0207par0136	Of course I do.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0208par0137	Here you go, Mr. Altay. Two minutes, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0209par0139	Mr. President, let him answer, Mr. Engin, who pejorativeed May 27th.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0210par0142	Half of the General Assembly didn't understand that, so correct it, and explain it. Mr. President, Mr. Bostanci, the parliamentary system, the chest, democracy, of course, but there are politicians all over the world who come in democratic ways and sit in a position and then forget democracy. In Turkish Language Foundation and other dictionaries -- you're so obsessed with this didictator, friends, don't hang out -- it's called the "diktator" who collects all the political powers. It's a dictionary. What do dictators do? Look, from the Turkish Language Foundation, I say from the dictionary: The job of stepping down the government by putting pressure, force, or democratic means in a country is also called the overthrow of the government in a way that changes the regime.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0211par0145	It's the CHP.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0210par0146	That's the situation, that's the situation. The late Mendes, the late Ozal, they succumbed to their egos. They have a service, God bless them, to lie in the lake of light; I'll say nothing, they've succumbed to their egos.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0211par0147	Amen.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0210par0148	But what I do know is that in the history of the republic I've read, go back in the history of the Ottomans, go back in the history of Seljuklu...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0211par0149	Stay there, stay there.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0210par0150	...a politician who has succumbed to his ego as much as Mr. President. I have never seen or heard of it. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0212par0153	This is a very personal assessment, not a political analysis.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0210par0154	Personal mystic...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0213par0155	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0214par0156	When Mr. Bostanci spoke of our party earlier, what did you do so that the public could hate you? I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0213par0157	Here you go, sir. Two minutes.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0214par0160	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This is the first time I've been on the stand today. Now, first of all, this is about dictatorship: it's an ongoing process, it's not so easy to declare your dictatorship immediately.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0215par0163	That's what you think.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0214par0164	Let me take full authority, let me digest the whole community, and let me design the state in my own way. This society will not allow it. So, yes, now all the mechanisms of dictatorship have not come to life, but believe me, it never will, so you know. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Second, what did the HDP do? Now, when we were walking down the street, someone said, "You know, throw the HDP out of Parliament." I was in Diyarbakır at the weekend. So if we could just say from here what he said about you...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0216par0167	What happened on the Wall?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0214par0168	...You can't go out on the street if we tell you what he said about you, about the AKP, about the palace.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0217par0169	The blessing...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0218par0170	Why don't you come to Antalya? What are they saying in Antalya?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0214par0171	What did the HDP do? HDP came to Parliament with 5 million votes. No one can expel HDP (HDP) from Parliament, but those who vote for us take back 5 million people's will, and they can expel us from Parliament.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0219par0172	That's exactly what's gonna happen.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0214par0173	Other than that, none can find such a right against Him. Oh, what did we do? You knocked over the negotiating table, started a war with the PKK. We both said that you and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) war would not be a solution, and insisted that peace should come, and that everything you did in violation of the morality and law of war, we will continue to say so.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0220par0175	There's no war, there's a war on terror.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0214par0176	So, when you talk about HDP, we'll understand if you bring the principles of HDP, the program, the review of what they're doing, but I crossed the street, someone told me that. If you say that, then we'll accuse you of speaking from the bench under the influence of trolls and trolls.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0220par0177	Is that what the candle says?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0214par0178	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0221par0180	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0222par0181	Yes, Mr. Bostanci...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0221par0182	The last thing he said was an open taunt. He claimed that I spoke on the effect of trolls and trolls; it was an open taunt.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0223par0183	He did, Mr. President, he did!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0224par0184	That's what Bulent Arinc says.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0225par0185	Let's complete this chapter as best we can, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0224par0186	Isn't Naci Bostancı now responding to Bulent Arinc?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0225par0187	Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0226par0191	Mr. Baluken, I didn't speak to a random person to convey an opinion.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0227par0192	He's showing polls, Mr. President!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0226par0193	I have presented to your attention two different elements of the feelings of the people in Anatolia and their assessment of you. In the past, you had debates within yourself, and the matter of Turkey's reunification was important. If the Kurdish issue is to be resolved in this country, it will surely be resolved in the context of humanity and in the context of Turkey. The Kurdish issue will not be solved by missing a will for the whole of Turkey in this country, Mr. Bauken. What I'm saying is, if you have a claim to this issue, of course, in 2007, 2008, 2009, you should have done it on the basis of what you said about the claim to Turkey. I also referred to the words of that time in reference to your politics on that day. I said today that you locked yourself in a prison, not in a prison assigned by references to ethnic and ideological violence, but in style and politics, I shared my observations about it. When I was criticizing you, was there any other kind of attitude possible? I spoke to you in a positive way, in the name of a positive contribution to the peace, the brotherhood, the unity of this country, to the solution of the Kurdish issue, not in the intention of trying to motivate it. You of all people should understand that. The word "Trol" and "trol" was unfortunate. You should know that I don't mean to. And my analysis had nothing to do with it. In the end, you have to shape the solution to the Kurdish issue through the total will of this country, express it through this context, and maintain it by gaining more or less everyone's consent. Of course you'll be in the House, everyone the people choose will be in the House, but the law will be in it. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0228par0197	Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0229par0198	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0228par0199	Mr. Idris...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0229par0200	Once again, the deputy leader of the group said we missed the general will of the people of Turkey and created politics in order to lock ourselves in a prison. So he made an open taunt. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0228par0201	You responded in your previous conversation.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0229par0202	Since it's a new tease...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0228par0203	I'm asking that this doesn't go on like this, not another tease. Here you go, sir. Two minutes.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0229par0206	Thank you. Mr. President, you understand what I mean by "trol" and "trol," I'm talking about people who should not be in Parliament, who have started the campaign on Parliament. Those trolls and trolls, they've been giving you the start of a campaign about your authorities for a long time, even your Prime Minister, and then they're organizing a lynch attack, and then they create a perception that the whole community thinks so. All of you open up the process concerning HDP, follow it through social media, media. We're talking about a topic that came up here after a process by those who led this lynching campaign, which President Erdogan had also brought to society. So, I mean, you know, when I say you should listen to them. Now, on the other hand, of course, you've made some assessments of HDP's politics here. We don't mean we're doing everything right. There is no doubt that each of us, every political party, may have a world of faults, but we speak here as the only party group and MPs who insist on an alternative way out. I mean, we're saying that this is not the way to go, that you don't have a choice except that there's an increase in pain, that there's a deepening of unresolvedness. We haven't missed the will of the people of Turkey. Turkey's people supported more than 70 per cent of the solution process. A week ago poll results came in, and despite all the funerals, 60 per cent of society advocates resolving the process. Therefore, we have no understanding that violates the will of our people, nor do we have the ability to shut down and separate ourselves from Turkey's problems. We want to be constructive, we want to settle the basics here. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0230par0212	Sir, thank you. And we have a past to cherish with mercy and gratitude. Menderes was mentioned, and Özal was mentioned. The statesmen, those in charge here, those in charge of our government, have certainly acted in good faith. Some have served too much, some have given too little, but surely his country has done its best for its people. We have to remember them all with respect. Besides, we already believe in remembering the good in those who change the world. I think I'm saying that on behalf of all of us.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0231par0216	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0230par0217	Mr. Engin, you're participating...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0231par0218	Mr. President, everyone will understand from this plugin: I mean, I've read mercy to Menderes and Ozal, and I haven't read it to others. There's a sense of it. I've read mercy to them because it's Menderes and Ozal. Of course, this nation, this land, whether it's a man of state or not, whoever served it is God's blessing. That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0230par0219	Amen. Sir, now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the Istanbul MP Mr. Dr. Mehmet Mush Bey will make the second speech. Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0232par0225	Mr. President, I have been promised to express our opinion on the 65th Government Programme on behalf of the AK PARTY Group. I salute your high council. First of all, I ask God's mercy on our heroic security forces, who have been martyred in the fight against terrorism, to be patient with their families and our nation. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Today, as you know, is the anniversary of the May 27 coup. He condemns this coup, a black stain in the history of Turkish democracy, our late Prime Minister Adnan Menderes and his ministers Hasan Polatkan and Fatin Rüştüglü revere him with gratitude, and I ask God's mercy. May God never give our state, our nation, another black day like this again. Whoever's behind this coup, organized it, today our nation remembers them with a curse. Dear MPs, our 65th Government Programme is gathered in five main topics: strong economy, strong Turkey, new constitution and system, human development, habitable cities and environment. The AK PARTI authorities have always given the right to strong economy and strong Turkey in the past, and will no doubt continue to give after that. We have no doubt that our new Council of Ministers, especially our Prime Minister, Mr. Buli and our ministers, will bring the executive and reformist identity of the EC PARTY governments higher. ONE of the most important elements that has kept the EC PARTY in power since 2002 is this executive and reformist identity. Turkey has given Turkey the project and service we can call more or more to compare with the AK PARTI rulings in 14 years' time with those before it. Three key elements in the strong economic title of our 65 · Global Voices Program: the preservation of macroeconomic stability and gains, microeconomic and sectoral transformation and production of Turkey. Dear lawmakers are now free from the fear of which macroeconomic parameters will break out and what kind of economic crisis Turkey will be dragged into, as in the Turkish coalition period. The EC PARTY has established macroeconomic stability with its rulings; Turkey has entered a sustainable, healthy and uninterrupted process of growth. Look, I'm going to share a statistic, and this is very important: according to World Bank data, Turkey has grown 1.8 times over global growth between 2003 and 15 years. Between 1992 and 2002, it was able to grow at the same rate as the global economy between 1961 and 1980. So, with the Justice and Development Party, Turkey has managed to achieve nearly twice the growth of global economic growth. In the same way, we will implement important measures to resolve the current deficit. Dear lawmakers, we've taken over exports with $36 billion, today the $150-160 billion tape is exported to Turkey. So, we're predicting in our government programme to take our exports to a level of 1.5 per cent of total global exports. It is also planned here that exports will be brought to significant levels of growth. Dear lawmakers, we need to see where the level of prosperity in Turkey is coming from. Look, the Ministry of Development has data, and the IMF data is similar. The national income per capita in Turkey was $3,577 when the Homeland Party ended on its own in 1991, which was estimated at $3,019 for the 2001 crisis, and that figure in 2002 was $3,492. So in the eleven years that go by, I regret to say, let alone the increase in per capita income, or even the fact that it's going down here. The Justice and Development Party has taken over the country with 3.492 dollars per person, and has managed to triple it. Now, valued lawmakers, look, our national income is increasing and so is the world. So, proportionally, what size of the national revenues of developed countries have we come to? Precious lawmakers were 18 per cent of the per capita income per capita income in Turkey when the EC PARTY took over in 2002, which is now up to 30 per cent of the per capita income in the eurozone. When we compared it with the United States, it was 9% of the time, and now it's up to 20 percent of the time. These actually show where prosperity comes from. Again, Turkey has risen to the level of high-income, medium-income countries in the EC PARTI rule, and with our new government programme, our goal is to raise Turkey to the level of high-income countries. You all know where inflation and interest fall from, and we're going to make them fall even lower. Dear MPs, there are two main reasons for economic crises in Turkey. One is high budget deficits, and the other is foreign currency. In other words, the movement of foreign currency or high budget deficits have ultimately led Turkey to a crisis. Here's one of the important issues that the AK PARTI authorities care about and will care about in the future, so the AK PARTI has never and will not compromise fiscal discipline. Dear lawmakers -- as of today -- have been 11% last year when we took over the budget deficit, so this has been severely reduced. Hopefully we'll have the issue of budget deficits off Turkey's agenda by 2019-20. And while we're here, let me give you the January-June budget. Our budget has over $5.4 billion, and I'm offering it to the General Assembly. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] A holistic investment policy will be implemented to boost the competitiveness of the private sector and lower its costs. We're going to use the public-special cooperation model in a much more efficient way. We're going to set up a private infrastructure fund here and hopefully provide private loans and funding based on the project. Dear MPs, during the Prime Minister's term as Prime Minister of our President and at the time when our current Prime Minister Buli Yıldırım Bey was Minister of Transport, this particular public-special cooperation model has been used very effectively. Look, I'll give you some statistics. A total of 198 project contracts have been signed from 1986 to today, when the public-private cooperation began. At 2015 prices, they're worth 115 billion dollars. The worth of these projects, worth 9 billion dollars, is 65 (2002) before 2002, and the worth of 106 billion dollars, is from 2002 to 2002. In fact, this is one of the key indicators of confidence in the EC PARTY governments and the Turkish economy. Again, valuable lawmakers will be supported by domestic technology and domestic production, using the leverage power of public purchases. The Development Bank will be restructured to fund investments in strategic sectors, strengthening its financial structure. Dear lawmakers, another title in our government programme is the new constitution and system. Here we offer the presidential system as a priority in both the Constitutional Compromise Commission and the government programme. Well, why are we offering the presidential system, and we need to explain why. So, when there's a presidential system, there's no one to advertise, there's an election again, and whoever wins in the crate comes to the board. Dear lawmakers, we think the presidential system is important for institutionalisation of trust and stability in Turkey. In Europe, where the most successful examples of the parliamentary system are available, political instability stemming from the 2008 global crisis and the European debt crisis has begun. Europe, still unable to fully emerge from the global crisis, faces a threat of political crises due to coalitions, weak governments. Look, on September 14, 2014, Swedish elections were held, and after the election, there was no power alone, and a coalition could not be formed, a minority government was formed. Parties supporting the minority government say they will not support the 2015 budget, and on March 22nd in Sweden, an early election decision was made, and then, after a lot of work, the process was set in motion. After four months of coalition talks failed in Spain, the decision was made to re-election on 26 June. Five hundred and forty days after the 2010 elections in Belgium, the coalition was established. After the 2014 elections, after only four months, the coalition was established, which indicates that the problem of stability in Europe was actually raised. Italy is the most frequently changed government in 63 governments in sixty-nine years and four government changes in the last four years. The most recent law here -- you know, italianum -- is going to take over 40 percent and above the party alone to take over the country. Why are these steps being taken? Because at the point of stability, they see weakness, so all these countries are trying to find a solution. And the valued MPs, Turkey, alone in Turkey, have always grown faster during the ruling period. Look, it's 3.96 percent during the coalitions, when we're alone in power, starting in 1950, when we have 5.6 percent average growth. And Turkey's biggest crises, its deepest crises are 1978, 1994 and 2001 crises, which have always been during the coalition period. Turkey has experienced seven negative growths from 1950 to today. Two of them were in the ruling period, 1954 and 2009 alone; five were in 1979, 1980, 1994, 1999 and 2001. Here, high-value lawmakers, they don't grow up and shrink and make lasting prosperity. As of right now, Turkey has been providing 25 quarters of continuous growth, so a lasting prosperity can be produced in Turkey, and we think Turkey needs a quick decision-making and executionary executive. The current system, which the balance control mechanism does not fully function, is actually a system that is not even a parliamentary system, and in June 2014, with the change made in 2007, the President will now be elected by the public, and Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan as the first elected President in 2014 began serving the country. We will give Turkey a democratic presidency based on the separation of sharp forces and the balance brake mechanism. We want to underline this in particular: the presidential system, which is based on the university structure, is the presidential system that we bring in, because when we call it the presidential system, it can be drawn to very different points. Dear MPs, the Constitutional Compromise Commission has been established here under the roof of Parliament. Look, all those who are talking about freedom of opinion, freedom of opinion have turned over the table by not being able to bear the offer of the presidency brought by the AK PARTY. Without bloodshed, the presidency does not come. Those who say that they should know that only the national will and only the national will decide which system will come in the country, so the government system will change and change not by blood, but through the chest. For the first time in Turkey, a civil, democratic, pluralist and liberal constitution will be written without extraordinary conditions and coups. Dear lawmakers, our state is fighting every terrorist organization with all its power and resources and shows its determination to continue this fight until the last terrorist is destroyed. There's no hesitation at this point. As a result of our state's decisive struggle, the terrorist organization has suffered heavy losses, major coups in rural and urban areas. For the terrorist organization, it's the beginning of the end. Of course, the fight against terrorism is not only about hitting terrorists in the mountains, but also about those who support them and those who represent them. Because we're dealing with things that say that terrorists and live bombs tend to go to funerals, even false reports and ambush our security forces. Look, just last week, under the roof of this House, those who called themselves the deputy of the nation have been tempted to go to the mountain at another terrorist funeral. Of course, those who make the terrorist's political spokesman, those who deliver terrorism, will eventually answer in front of the law. That's why there was a constitutional amendment to immunity under the Veteran Assembly. Thus, it opened the way for those who publicly support terrorism to answer in front of the court. I also regret to inform you that those who said earlier that they would vote "yes" during this vote have voted "no" before breaking their promise, and then failed to risk a referendum, fearing the nation. That's what our people need to know. Those who are the political spokesman for terrorism, who are trying to save terrorist supporters from trial, who are giving them advice, who are taking routes, who are trying to lead, of course, are part of this crime. From here, I want to make it clear that those who support terrorism, those who cooperate with those who murder children, will answer to the judgment in the way they deserve, not in the way they do. Again, those who try to make terrorist collaborators and terrorist spokesmen a victim should know that the victims are infants who were murdered in the womb at bus stops, the real victims are the children who were killed by terrorists, the victims are children who were orphaned, widows, mothers who were left without children. Dear lawmakers do not support political spokesmen of the region's people and tradesmen, on the contrary, they react. Those who support terrorism, those who speak for it, are cursed every day by the locals and their tradesmen. They've run out of faces to go to the market in the area. Understand the furnaces. It is legitimate to dig a ditch. You will get the hell out of this country. We know how to turn the cats into you. One of our brothers from Diyarbakır, Cevatpaşa neighborhood, uses the following expressions: You have destroyed our house. The traitors are here. Don't come here, why are you still here? We've been out on the street for six months. What are you guys doing here? Go, get out of here. You've ruined our home. What more do you want from us? So be wary of Allah, for they are not ashamed. And they're coming here without shame. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] Dear lawmakers, you all know that in the past weeks the terrorist organization Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has been massacred in Diyarbakır Burimlı. I can't express such violence, such cruelty in words. With 15 tons of explosives, 16 of our people, we've been slaughtered. Who knows how many thousands of people they were trying to kill with these 15 tons of explosives. See, one of the important things about this case is that our villagers there noticed a truck full of explosives and they interfered with it. So the people of the region have said that at the cost of their lives, it is enough for PKK's massacre trucks. The state is with the people of the region. May our people be blessed with a strong support for the fight against terrorism. Any victims caused by terrorism are being eliminated and will continue to be repaired. While someone supports the terrorist organization that destroys houses and lives, we will put into practice the policies that repair homes and bring life to the region. Here's a few more things I'd like to talk to you about, dear lawmakers. Look, the terrorist organization is targeting the schools. Why is he targeting these schools? Because don't let the kids in the area read it, let ignorance wander through it, so they can do whatever propaganda they want. These schools, you know, they reveal damage to the area. It's a terrorist organization. His goal is to prevent young people from being informed, educated, and educated. They're strategically choosing these places, not random targets, especially educational institutions, trying to prevent children from getting information, learning things. Likewise, the speakers who were just mentioned here used some phrases about agriculture, but I'll give you some information. See, Turkey's agricultural export is $16.8 billion in 2015, and agricultural imports are $11.2 billion, and Turkey is offering $5.6 billion in foreign trade surplus. During 2003-2015, Turkey gave a total of 53 billion dollars in foreign trade surplus in agriculture. In the same way, our production of corn, at this point, has increased by 205 per cent, from 2.1 million tons to 6.4 million tons.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0233par0254	Cargill needs a lot of corn. That's a lot of corn for the sweetener.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0232par0255	Our plastic production has increased by 156 percent from 306,000 tons to 920,000 tons.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0234par0256	Don't go into agriculture, don't go into agriculture, you can't come out of it!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0232par0257	Sunflowers rose 98 per cent from 850,000 tons to 1,681,000 tons. The increases here, in fact, show best where our agricultural production is coming from as a country.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0235par0258	One more crop, and that's corn, Mehmet, corn; that's Cargill.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0232par0259	I, the 65th Government Programme, wish our nation to be a blessing to our country, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0236par0261	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0237par0262	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0236par0263	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0237par0264	During his speech, Mr. Group Vice President repeatedly pressed against our party.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0238par0265	He told the PKK.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0239par0266	I didn't mention a name, I didn't say a name.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0237par0267	So, from the political extension of terrorism to the fact that we were unable to get out of the streets in Diyarbakir, he was taunting us with non-real information, and I want to speak according to 69.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0240par0268	Sir, I need to take a look at the reports, because there's no such thing in my readings.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0241par0269	There's no need for a statement, it's all there.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0237par0270	Mr. President, there's no need for a report.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0240par0271	I will, sir, I do, I see the need. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0237par0273	Then you must not be able to track it.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0240par0274	I do, sir. I'm following it very well. I know what I'm following.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0237par0275	Mr. President, tell us...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0240par0276	Mr. Idris, please...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0237par0277	...that the MPs clearly support terrorism here...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0240par0278	I will, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0237par0279	...as to the conversations we're having here, in a very different way...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0240par0280	Mr. Baluken, I'll look at the reports and make my decision accordingly. I have the authority to make that decision, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0237par0282	It belongs to you, but I suggest you keep an eye on the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0240par0283	I do, sir. I'm following it very well.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0237par0284	If you haven't detected such public bullying, you really can't handle it well.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0240par0285	Sir, I've been following you so well, let's not repeat our words. Sir, on behalf of their people, Mr. Mehmet Parsak, the MP of Afyonkarahisar, will now make the first speech. Here you go, Mr. Parsak.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0242par0289	Turkish nation, respected lawmakers; at the beginning of my words, I salute the Veteran Assembly. I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the 65th Government Program. Now, the speakers who spoke for our group before me, such as our group's deputy, acting out of carelessness in the preparation of this government program, continued to take part in this programme, even the laws of the government, as well as a copy of the government program, and again, our Samsun MP Erhan Master Bey, who was particularly economically weighted, spoke in order to express the errors involved in this government programme. We're interviewing a government program, and when we're discussing this government program, there's not a number that's going to meet if a meeting is asked for enough right now. He also said that our orators speak for the group. There's a lack of excitement in that way. I mean, I'm a new congressman, relatively, but if we look at previous programs, we haven't seen that kind of excitement.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0243par0293	It never happened, it was the first time.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0242par0294	So that's been expressed by the orators before us. It's basically in the General Assembly table, too.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0244par0295	He's always here, don't worry.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0242par0296	Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to share my thoughts on the political essence of the matter, regarding this lack of excitement, this lack of carelessness, and the tragedy that comes from it. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister Davutoglu has taken his party to power by 49.5 per cent in the final election, but has become the first Prime Minister to be removed from power by his own party two months after his budget was approved in parliament. Our president is our red line. It's not enough to save himself, it's been refuted by the board of its own party, then forced to withdraw from duty by its natural leader. Mr. Davutoglu has not been able to reach the ears and the hearts of the congressional chair's party, which states that he has been unfairly removed from office by bearing witness to the apocalypse conscience. Neither the power to dismiss the elected Prime Minister, nor the former prime minister, who thinks that he has been wronged, has felt the need to make a public statement, especially to nearly 24 million voters who voted for him. The lesson the AKP staff must take from what is going on should not be to do the same things and expect different results. In their antidemocratic relationship with the president, they will continue to live the same fate only as long as they make changes in their own part. They must know that unless there is a change in Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan's attitude and attitude, there will be no type of president in this country, but there will be the kind of prime minister he wants. In the memory of Prime Minister Davutoglu's childhood, this prime minister's type is called by public opinion: Prime Minister of the Games.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0245par0299	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0242par0300	I didn't say anything dirty.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0245par0301	Shame!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0246par0303	Don't interfere, sir, the MPs...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0242par0304	It was not Mr. Bülli Yıldırım who calmed them down, but the President who told those who were out of the cabinet that they could take part in the party and parliament. So he wanted to show the friend who made the lists to the enemy.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0247par0305	Look at you, look at yourself!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0248par0306	None of your business!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0242par0307	We're not talking about us, we're talking about the 65th government, we're talking about the AKP.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0247par0308	You didn't even get a convention!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0242par0309	So there's no disrespect, there's no injustice, we'll keep talking.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0247par0310	Let's talk about you!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0249par0311	The internal affairs of the AK PARTY are our business, not yours.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0247par0312	Come July 10th, July 10th; come July 10th!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0250par0313	Sir, do not interfere. Mr. Orator, speak to the House.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0251par0315	The AKP, who has wanted to gain credit and sympathy by saying it has fought against custody since the day it was established, has become the only living and defending entity in both the leadership of the party and the state administration, unfortunately I regret to express it.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0252par0316	You feel sorry for yourself!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0251par0317	Each person in the position of the President realizes that his political future depends more on his beauty than on the will of the nation. But that is not sufficient for their guardian. Anyone who doesn't even give them the right to identify their own co-workers is trying to show them who's boss every chance they get. In their 14-year-old power, it is up to them to declare that their 15-year-old parties have not been able to function independently with their own rules and organs, and that their personalities do not emulate them. But it's the party of this place. It's the country of this town. If it's spoken in a manner of speaking, that's what we object to. Why should my presence be a gift to the Turk's presence, even though the Great Leader, who provides for us today, finds it uncomfortable to walk to the goal he has set? It's our way. Let our presence be a gift. If they have come to the point of saying, "Let their personality be known to them."
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0253par0319	Don't waste your energy, just move on!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0251par0320	But if they intend to make use of what the people have given them, then surely we have a problem with that. Congressmans, it has only been three months since the last budget talks, and it will not mean more than agreeing with the AKP's demolition table on the basis of the government programme. Only one president, one prime minister, who has been changed in a short period of time has been the diminishing reputation of our country and the growing number of our martyrs.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0253par0322	Come to the 10th of July.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0251par0323	I'm talking about the truth, there's no need to be disturbed. Other than that, neither one man's love nor one man's unlawful conduct has changed, unfortunately. No public order has been restored, no national income has been increased. Neither the judgment was independent nor the press could be free. We haven't been able to get out of the gutter that we've been stuck in foreign policy, and we haven't been able to get our noses out of our Syrian border. Neither Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) nor ISIS's live bombs were caught before the explosion, nor were we able to prevent the death of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) leaders, nor were we able to escape the wrath of the AKP's governors, who linked the fall of the bombs to the presence of gravity. The number of refugees in our country has not been reduced nor has Turkey become a member of the EU in 3,000 years. Women's murders have not been prevented from child abuse, nor has the quality decline in national education been stopped, nor has our children been prevented from falling into the grip of drugs. Neither the creation of the rich in power nor the attempt to become a partisan, the architect of the great projects. The prime minister was appointed as the architect of the big projects, but those big projects were not allowed to give up being given to the same corrupt contractors, nor were the rights of workers working on those projects.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0254par0325	Read the projects, read them well. Read those projects well.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0251par0326	Honourable MPs, Mr. Davutoglu, said he would make legal arrangements for transparency and political morality right at the beginning of his era and that the four ministers accused of corruption should be tried in the Supreme Court. The President's reply to the Prime Minister, who said he did not like such arrangements, was that if so, you would not find the mayor of the province or the district to take office. The four ministers he asked to be tried for corruption were saved from the Supreme Court by AKP lawmakers' votes, and beyond that, the name in the focus of corruption, Mr. Davutoglu, two ministers of Mr. Davutoglu had already given plaques. Another reason for the former Prime Minister's departure is that he has a double attitude towards the presidential system. That means that it is now up to Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan to defend this system. One of the remarkable changes in the new cabinet was, unfortunately, at the Ministry of National Education. With this change, the national education remained the most changing ministry in the AKP's administration. In the hands of ministers who don't like what the previous one did and go to system changes, national education has become, unfortunately, a test board. No doubt who is the one who has not changed, rather than the ones who will give us the most accurate information about the true nature of the 65th government. The clearest message of Mr. Buli Yıldırım's government is keeping the Home Secretary and Justice in their seats... and it's no secret who's really saving it and what purpose it's supposed to serve. Mr. Interior Minister Efkan Ala has been listed as an Interior Minister who can say that there is no law required to break down the doors and detain journalists and that he already knows the Constitution. Don't be deceived by their speech from the high curtain, for the prophet was taken with pride. We were not taken with him. Sadly, he seemed modest enough to say so.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0255par0330	Don't lie, don't lie! Don't lie to the parallelists!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0251par0331	Unfortunately, there are similar situations about the Minister of Justice. When we look in this box, indeed, the political reasons for the establishment of this 65th government are literally, consistently, impossible to explain to our nation or history. Despite all of this, I would like to end my words by sharing a heartfelt prayer, thinking of the interests of our nation, our state. After all, we are the government's...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0256par0335	Mr. Mehmet, will you finish in a minute?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0251par0336	You don't have to, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0256par0337	Can you wrap it up in a minute?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0251par0338	Thank you, Mr. President. We're expressing all of these criticisms... there's been a lot of bullying between them, even read it right. It's been said and so on and so forth, and we've never been able to describe them.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0257par0340	Just tell me what suits you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0251par0341	But, as a result, the process of forming a new government is taking place. All of what we're saying is in the right frame of reference, expressed, recorded.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0257par0342	You remember July 10th.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0251par0343	It's unbecoming to tell you about this July 10th and so forth. I'm trying to say something: After all, the AKP Group has the majority, and if the Turkish nation, the AKP government, which has to do something for the Turkish state, decides to take that into account when it's established as the 65th government, then our nation stands to profit. We express these criticisms within our responsible political understanding. On this occasion, I salute your esteemed presence and the Veterans' Council once again.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0258par0346	Thank you, Mr. Parsak.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0259par0347	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about bullying.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0258par0348	Here you go. Two minutes, please...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0259par0352	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, our friend here, who was speaking, a parallelist, told me the lie here. For one thing, I'm an imam-gap graduate, and I don't want to say it. I have enough savings to tell you people what religion is.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0260par0354	There's arrogance again, I'm afraid, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0259par0355	It is said here that you are a stranger to this subject... that the Prophet Sallahu has spoken against him and against him.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0260par0356	Shame on you, shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0259par0357	You are far too familiar with these things when you remember the prophet Sallahu and the Selem, and you do not know what to say behind his back. So don't say in here what's being handed to your hand, and what's being blown to your ears.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0261par0358	That's a harsh thing to say.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0259par0359	We've come to terms with this, and we're the ones who are conscious enough to sacrifice our lives when you say, 'Kur'an,'sinnet.' (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) The reason we're doing politics is to serve the cause of our coming to Earth, but if you want to know what it means to be the cause of the world, for a Muslim and a believer, then go do some research on these matters. I don't have any more time for you. That's one.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0262par0360	It's the same arrogance again, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0259par0361	Secondly, dear friends, you can follow a policy that is trapped in legislation. We're here to change the legislation. If we feel dependent on the legislation, what we're going to do... of course we do, we always say it, but we do politics here to change it. Every time you open your mouth, there's something like this, there's something like this in the legislation, break this... there's been a coup attempt in Turkey. What are we going to prevent that blow from happening? If they come in the tank, we'll get on top of the tank, and if they plan behind the doors, we'll break down the doors.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0263par0363	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Sir...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0264par0365	Mr. President, of course, in fact, Mr. Secretary, I would like to point out that if he would listen to his speech again, he would take some example, and that he would not be able to teach religion to anyone. Let the Minister know his place, let him know his place.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0265par0367	And you know your place!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0264par0368	As a Muslim, we will not learn our religion from you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0265par0369	And I'm not gonna learn from you!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0264par0370	So pay attention to these expressions.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0266par0371	Oktay Bey, let's not get personal. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0267par0373	You maintain the same arrogant attitude, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0268par0374	Here's your recording. Bring some remorse, apologize! Enough!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0266par0375	Mr. Oktay, please don't make me climb. Everyone is free in their own opinion, free and in their own opinion...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0268par0376	It's not my opinion, it's that when it comes to our religion, he knows his place.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0269par0377	So everyone knows that after the name of the Holy Prophet, the name of the Prophet must be said against him and against him.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0270par0378	He says he didn't, he says he's lying.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0271par0379	The opinions belong to individuals and are honorable. Thank you. Sir, now it's time for...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0272par0382	He didn't speak at Erzurum, so he gets up here and talks! I'll have more to say, and don't ever stand on the stand again. You know I say a lot of things.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0271par0383	Mr. Oktay... Sir, it is now on behalf of the government that the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Numan Survivmiş Bey, is incumbent on behalf of the government. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0389	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you with respect and love. I want to thank all of our friends here who have shared their views and contributed to the 65th government's programme. And at the beginning of my words -- we're talking on May 27th, on the anniversary of May 27th -- we remember that dark day of Turkish political history, unfortunately, with curses, with an example; once again, in the May 27 coup, we express that the High Assembly must do its best not to ignore the people's hard work, the political will of the nation, to make the political leaders they love martyred on the gallows more than the lives of the nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, in the same way, after the May 27 coup, we are grateful to God for the martyred Menderes, the Zordar, and the Polytkan. As our dear friends have expressed before me, we also remember all our pasts that have served this country with goodness and gratitude and gratitude. My dear friends, the esteemed MPs, the 65th government, if you must name a name, is a government of reforms, breakthroughs and executions. In this sense, the government has to systematically end political, economic, social and legal reforms by completing the changes made in Turkey by the EC PARTY governments over the past 14 years. In this frame, we know as mortals that each of us, no matter what level we rule the country, we're all mortals. What we need to do is to fulfill the rights of the nation above us, to place democracy in this country with all its institutions and rules, and to make the systematic changes on its path of service to the nation permanent, and to make reforms permanent, independent of political parties, political actors and political figures. The primary goal of this framework is to make these actions permanent, systematic transformations, and to move them into the future of Turkey's politics, Turkey's economy; and to do so, with a spirit of mobilisation, we can best use the political institution, the political institutions, both the bureaucracy, and all the solution partners concerned with Turkey's politics, the economy, to make this a denominator of the 65th Government's Program, and to do so, with the spirit of mobilisation, to do so, to do so, we can best use the time that people have given us on November 1st. The numbers have been discussed here, and I'm not going to go into the numbers, but I'd like to make it clear to you that Turkey has come from a great deal of merch in the past 14 years and 60 years of multi-party political life. Big distances have been taken, but there's still a lot of work to be done. If you want to call it football, we're playing-off in the First Division, but we're not in the Super League yet. Here's the main duty of the 65th government: to take Turkey to the Super League with your contribution to make it one of the 10 major countries in the world.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0274par0398	Don't fall into a cluster, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0399	In this frame, we know what we're going to do every day, every day, in this spirit of mobilization. In this framework, I would like to say that we are open to all constructive proposals, all criticisms from opposition parties. My dear brothers, my dear fellow lawmakers, Turkey's actions with the 65th government have risen above the 5 main pillars. The first is to do phase change in the economy. When compared with the 2002 conditions in Turkey's economy, the high levels of macroeconomic stability have been exceeded in Turkey. However, in order for a country to become a country in the world's top league, it has to be able to compete with its patents, brands, investments in RD, high-tech brands in the world. To do that, we have to demonstrate a performance that will sustain this macrostabilisation with micro-success, not just with a sense of macrostabilisation, during the coming period, when the 65th government will be in charge. So with our investments, our projects, our airports, our seaports, our double roads, our double train routes, we'll move investments in all areas of Turkey forward in terms of public and private sectors. Think of it as three groups: the first, so to speak, is that we take special interest in the top of Turkey's brain-building team, the RD, the patents, and the brands...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0275par0401	You've increased 0.3 in 14 years in RD!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0402	I'd like to point out that we aim to boost Turkey's international competitiveness. In addition, it is one of the priorities of the 65th Government to support our SMEs, which still make up 80 per cent of Turkey's economy in terms of employment, making up 65 per cent in economic size. In this framework, we have come to you with a program that does not neglect the narrow-income parts of society, and the middle class, not just social benefits, but enhanced social policies. I'd like to put it this way, before we go into context, without drowning in numbers, that the economic policy of the 65th government can be summed up by the procedural Turkish slogan. We're going to create a strong Turkish economy that produces and produces in every area, where all parts of society have a share in this production, and hopefully, we'll get to their 2023 targets, which have little to say, hopefully, before we reach 2023.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0276par0404	What are the targets?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0405	My dear brothers, the end of terror is the second important leg of this government. There is an ongoing struggle with terrorist organisations in Turkey from July 22, 2015. A brother of ours, I believe, said here that before you came to power, there was no terror in Turkey. My dear brothers and sisters have been fighting terrorism in this country for forty years. Terror has increased, decreased, but, unfortunately, it's always been a problem for Turkey with outside support. Tens of thousands of people have died in Turkey, and thousands of soldiers and police have died in Turkey. The cost of this terrorism has been 1.5 trillion dollars in 40 years for Turkey. Hopefully, together, together, as a nation's policy, we will end terrorism and make all terrorist organizations unable to move.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0277par0407	That's what they said 40 years ago.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0408	Dear brothers and sisters, I want to tell you that after July 22nd, all terrorist organizations were mobilized in Turkey with their buttons pressed. From ISIS to the DHKP-C, or to PKK, all terrorist organizations, unfortunately simultaneously, began to lean on Turkey after July 22nd, with the support of political, economic, logistical, and even those who supported themselves on every platform in the region, with a little encouragement from developments in the Middle East. The issue of counterterrorism has become a common issue of our nation today. Once again, I want to make it clear that we don't see terror organizations as just a few thousand terrorists fighting in the front. The fight against terrorist organisations also obliges to see domestic and foreign partners behind terrorist organisations and to carry out a simultaneous fight against them. In this framework, we sincerely thank all of our brothers and sisters, all of our security forces, who have worked in this struggle. Also, a large thank-you is especially deserved by our Kurdish brothers, Kurdish brothers and locals, who do not support the terrorist organization in Eastern and Southeast Anatolia. In this sense, we also have a debt of gratitude to the people who provided this support in this struggle. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It is also our duty as government to draw attention to another terrorist organization that occasionally encourages terrorist organizations in Turkey's struggle. This is organisation, which is referred to as the parallel state configuration, which has become part of Turkey's security strategy. This organisation is working against Turkey, not only against the government, but also by supporting whoever it is against Turkey, using every means available in Turkey and abroad. The fight against this organization will go all the way through all legal means, and hopefully we'll have a successful outcome in this struggle. My dear brothers and sisters, the third-largest pillar, the third-largest area, is the completion of legal and political reforms that have risen above the 65th government in Turkey. Now, there may be another debate, but it's imperative that these legal and political reforms take place, that Turkey's politics and Turkish society go further because this political system that Turkey is dressed on -- I don't call it a regime -- is like a crazy shirt that narrows down on this nation. This political system is a gift to Turkey of the 1980 coup, first developed behind the 1960 coup, with the Constitutional Law of Political Parties, with the Parliamentary Administration, and with all other antidemocratic laws. Turkey has to get rid of this straight shirt. Sooner or later, these folks are gonna pull this crazy shirt off and hope they can throw it in the trash can. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear brothers, for him, we, the 65th government, view the commitment we made to our people on November 1st as one of the most fundamental responsibilities of the government to carry out these legal, political reforms in Turkey, as a result of the public's support for us in the November 1st election. Yes, we're going to build a new constitution in Turkey. Making this new constitution is not only a duty and responsibility to the EC PARTY group or to the government of the 65th Republic, which he is bound by; it is also a duty of the great Parliament. Turkey will make a new constitution; civil, democratic, participating, pluralist will make a new constitution. And you all know that when we're making this constitution, we've been carrying out every responsibility in Turkey for all political wings to contribute to this process, and you've all witnessed it. My dear brothers, the constitutions, the constitution of a party, all right, but when the constitutions begin to be spoken, you can only change this Constitution with blood. To say what it means is never in line with democratic understanding, democratic rule. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] If it hadn't been spoken here today, I wouldn't have said it, but the sentence is that the Republican People's Party will never allow the change of the constitution, the change of the Constitution that you want. What in God's name does that mean? It is not the Republican People's Party Group that will allow the constitutional amendment, but Turkey's Grand National Assembly. (AK PARTY) It is our citizens who have requested a constitutional amendment, who have expressed this request. We argue; you bring your proposal; we bring our proposal; we bring our proposals; they bring their proposals; we compromise at the settlement table; we compromise; we find 330, we find the nation; we find the 367, but where the Constitution is discussed, you can never do that. My dear brothers, in this framework, Turkey, I hope, will complete its political and legal reforms. In this sense, we will appeal not only to the amendment of the Constitution, but to your support as a government to democratize these other laws along with this constitutional amendment in parliament. This Parliament, hopefully, will make a new internal charter; this Parliament will make a new and democratic political law; this Parliament will make the electoral law and, hopefully, Turkey will go through this process, in a way that strengthens its political system. Yeah, we're singing the presidential system as an AK PARTY. This is part of our commitment to the nation during the election. We say the presidential system is only part of the constitutional reform process. We just don't think it's right to take him and argue as if that's the essence of our entire constitutional reform process. What could be more natural than to ask that an effective execution be achieved in Turkey, that judicial reform can be done in Turkey, that the will of a citizen be represented more effectively in the political system by setting up a large balancing mechanism? In this framework, hopefully the AK PARTY Group will be able to build a new constitution that will suit Turkey with the support of you -- you know, there is no group decision -- and Turkey will continue with a new constitution. My dear friends, the fifth pillar of our government program...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0278par0424	Four, four.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0425	The fourth pillar is the establishment of social integrity. Thank you, Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0278par0427	Consolidating opposition.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0428	Yes, so it's a fine example of constructive opposition. Thank you very much. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The maintenance of social integrity is one of the basic debts of the 65th government. What do I mean? Our friends also talked about foreign policy. My dear friends, a game is being played in our territory. In the region, unfortunately, with the period beginning with the invasion of Iraq, people are trying to turn on each other through some basic fault lines. On the one hand, ethnic identities are being brought against each other in this region, through the identity of sects, and then across the same country. We'll never get into this game. In this country, we will not allow Turkey to be divided over ethnic discrimination or segregation to distinguish any of our citizens from the other, and we will not allow policy on this matter as a nation. In this sense, we will take all the steps that must be taken to ensure social integrity, and each one of our citizens, regardless of his identity, will feel free and equal to the people of the Republic of Turkey, and will accept himself as one of the main owners of this country. My dear friends, the fifth main pillar of our government programme is the emergence of new perspectives based on negotiations and mutual consent on solving problems in foreign policy. In this framework, the 65th Government Programme, which we discussed, is an executive government programme that shortens the path to their 2023 goals. Our reforms and actions actually have a human-focused understanding. Investment, employment, the goal of Turkey is to ensure social prosperity with a prior understanding of production, a fair share of prosperity. To serve this goal, our government will continue its work in six basic areas of work. First of all, the steps in democracy and justice. Second: steps in the field of education. Third: A rapid phase change in Turkey's economy with steps in the field of real economics and radical changes in this area. To ensure that our primary transformation programmes are implemented and our steps in the field of public finance and public administration are quickly taken. My dear friends, I'm not going to get involved in our government program, but I'd like to share with you some issues in the field of foreign policy -- just the economy and if there's time left. Turkey has to achieve its 2023 goals in the economy, to achieve what I just described as a growth goal of over 5 per cent in order to make it to the major league. Thus, we have put ourselves as a target for a strong Turkish economy that grows on production, which is not adventurous in the growth of Turkey, but never in any way restricts its growth goals. For this reason, Turkey will step up from the middle-up income group, hopefully to the higher income group when the 65th government's mandate expires, as well as among the world's highest levels of humanitarian development. My dear brothers, my dear fellow lawmakers, one of the priorities Turkey cannot give up in the economy is to carry out our development strategy in a way that will not miss the fourth industrial revolution. In this sense, Turkey will be able to create qualified employment, produce qualified production, and hopefully, it will increase domestic production with high-tech technology and reduce their dependence on imports. In addition, reducing the share of manufacturing industry's illegal domestic product and providing structural transformation will be our main priority. A new industrialisation policy is one of the priorities of the 65th government. We will strengthen the local and national industry. In this sense, Turkey is aware of the importance of the industry's 4.0 approach, which will accelerate the industry in line with this approach. In all of this, Turkey will provide the investor with all kinds of ease, any means possible for local and foreign investors to make their investments quick and easy in Turkey. Thus, the more efficient development of the investment agency in Turkey, the direct withdrawal of foreign capital directly from its activity is one of our primary goals. We'll also provide our local investors with all the benefits we can provide for foreign investors. Once again, I want to say that whoever wants to invest, we're going to spread turquoise carpets in front of whoever wants to invest, and we're going to open their way for them. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In addition, we will focus on European Union integration in order to strengthen Turkey's economic ties to the world. But it has also been expressed here, as Turkey, we care about European Union integration. For example, all the steps that Turkey must take during the 64th government to ensure that Turkey can obtain a Schengen visa through the refugee agreement have been taken. But because we have a European Union goal, we don't have to listen to the excuses the European Union has made -- let me put it this way -- and we don't often listen to the sad excuses it makes. We, Turkey, are fulfilling our responsibilities. A friend of ours has expressed opposition; someone says Turkey enters the European Union three thousand years later. If it's not our shame, it's the shame of those who say it. But as someone who's worked with the European Union for twenty and thirty years academically, we have the right to ask those who showed the European Union's doors three thousand years later: what's today's European Union going to be like in 30 years? First, you succeed in correcting the state of the European Union 30 years from now. (EC PARTY) We depend on the European Union's goal, in this sense, especially on visa liberalisation. But, I'm sorry, that doesn't mean that Turkey needs only the European Union. Turkey is one of the few countries in the world that can relate to all parts of the world. We are a country that is simultaneously linked to trade and political formations in many parts of the world and is involved in these agreements. Turkey is a country that maintains a co-existence with the United States, the Turkish world, members of the Islamic Co-operation Agency, members of the Balkan Pact, members of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation and other countries of the world, co-existing with Africa and Latin America. Yes, we know that the world has already begun economic war, that economic polarization has already begun in the world, and we're following it very well. Turkey is not obliged to walk only in the necessary directions in front of us. In this framework, as we continue our relations with the European Union, we are well aware of the importance of all our other relations, financial, economic and political relations. The emergence of integrations in European Union relations and economic blocs such as TTIP also demonstrates every effort, every effort, to address the negative effects of Turkey's economy. My dear brothers, Turkey's share of the world's trade in exports of goods must be taken far too far. We aim to increase Turkey's share of the world's goods trade to 1.5 per cent, and hopefully we'll move on in this direction. Also, yes, a lot of my friends have expressed that Turkey has an austerity deficit, and we know that. To close this austerity deficit, we will demonstrate measures to increase the savings within, and we will also develop new financial instruments to boost funding for our investors, especially the SMEs. In this framework, the emergence of innovative financial policies in Turkey, the increase of financial depth in Turkey with the resources to withdraw from abroad, and the opening of new financing areas, especially with widespread financing methods, will be really able to allow our nation, our investor, to breathe in this sense. In all of this, Turkey will demonstrate a will to carry out the production revolution, which will never compromise fiscal discipline, but will allow Turkey to move forward. Our public-owned corporations will provide them with an open, transparent, accountable structure. Not only will we increase foreign savings, but we will move them to high levels of integration that will allow Turkey to grow rapidly in productive areas. In addition, we will be mobilising any means possible to bring the savings held in gold, especially in gold banking, into Turkey's economy. Again, like GAP, which will give life to Turkey's economy, like DAP, DOCAP, and KOP, we will mobilise our resources to bring projects to its final destination as soon as possible. In investments to be made, using not only public resources, but public-private methods of co-operation, we will ensure that these investments will be made shortly and at low costs. We will also continue our work on the development of the business and investment environment uninterrupted. In charge of this area, a Deputy Prime Minister will monitor the work and monitor the work in areas related to improving the business and investment environment. I'm moving on to other issues, but, if you'll excuse me, there were some reviews that were put out -- about ten minutes away -- and I'd like to make that clear. Regarding foreign policy, I would also like to say, my dear brothers and sisters, Turkey is a country with many different political and economic centers that -- as I say in foreign policy -- can communicate with very different places. In this sense, Turkey will also take steps to increase the diversity of its foreign policy and increase Turkey's resources in this area. I'd like to make it clear and proud that in the past term alone, Turkey has hosted very important international meetings on a global scale. We did the G20 Summit in Antalya, the Summit of Islamic Co-operation in Istanbul. Again, last week, we did the World Humanitarian Summit in Istanbul. Again, at the end of this week, hopefully, in Turkey, we will host the Minimum Advanced Meeting of Countries. I would also like to express important international meetings in agriculture, such as EXPO, international organisations. I want to say that Turkey has now reached a level where it can successfully host and pioneer international conventions around the world. This diversity in Turkey's foreign policy is, in fact, one of the most important reasons why we have these opportunities. My dear friends, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer a few of the friends who speak -- very short notes. I hope my time is enough. About the education budget, Ahmet Bey told me. Let's just say, in terms of numbers, the overall share of the education budget is 9.4 in 2002; 19.2 in 2016. (AC PARTY applause) Before 2002, education spending was at a certain level, and, you know, the budget of the National Ministry of Defence was far ahead of the Ministry of Education's budget, which is now 19.2. In addition, the GDP was up from 3.2 per cent to 5 per cent.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0279par0452	The budget or the fact that it's happening?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0280par0453	Tell me the investment budget, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0454	That's the investment budget, more than that. They have details, we can give them to you if you want, there are details.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0279par0455	He told me the numbers on what happened, and for him.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0456	Now, a friend of ours -- I don't think he's here, I don't know if Mr. Bkent told you or Erhan Bey -- said, "What reforms?" Tell me about these reforms. I'd like to share a few with you. The first is RD reform. In 2002, the GDP in Turkey increased by 0.5 per cent of the GDP, 2 times more, and increased by 1 per cent due to the R&D reform. Is it a lot? It's not. If you say that, I agree.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0281par0457	It's not.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0279par0458	From 0.7 to 1.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0459	Turkey needs to go up to not 1, but Turkey to the 3, 4, 5,,,,,.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0279par0460	That's 0.3 in 14 years, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0282par0461	It's a shame, Mr. Secretary, it doesn't suit you, it doesn't suit you! That's what you got for reforming.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0462	In social security reform, the overall public deficit in terms of fiscal sustainability has been reduced to zero.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0282par0463	It says Mr. Secretary, social security has been breached for 1093 billion TL.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0464	7 million additional jobs were created between 2007 and 2015, with reforms in labour markets.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0283par0465	Tell the minister how much you borrowed when you paid off the IMF.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0466	Reforms that prevent division of land have been implemented in agriculture. We can count all of this, these are just a few of the things we can think of.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0284par0467	No, no reform, these aren't reforms, sir. No tax, no expense...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0468	My dear friends, now, these sectarian conflicts and sectarian matters have come to light. Yes, that's right, and I've just said that in this Middle Eastern geography where Turkey is at the center of our community, someone wants to fuel interethnic disputes, and they want to turn the people against each other through sectal dissolutions. As a result, a number of criminal terrorist organizations such as ISIS, such as Al Qaeda, have emerged as a result of occupations from one side and as a result of such policies. My dear friends, we're discussing Al Qaeda, ISIS, all of this, not just because I don't have time. The whole world has mobilized, like a wrench, to fight ISIS, a dark organization that opens every door, but the whole world can't fight it by mobilising all its armies. Dear friends, without understanding ISIS's theology, without revealing the antidote to ISIS's theology, a foot in the fight against ISIS will surely be crippled. The theology of fighting ISIS is the antidote to this land; it is the territory of Anatolia; it is the land of Rumeli. Many centuries before this, Hodja Ahmet Yesevi of the Fergana Valley, and Yusuf Hemedanites, and Hajji Bektas in the territory of Anatolia, and Hajji Bajram Velis, who came to love man, and brought him to the center of life, that he might live in the state. We all owe it to all of us to be able to re-emerge in all areas. For this reason, my dear friends, the antidote is this land, the Islamic tradition in Anatolia. In today's terms of the Islamic tradition in Anatolia...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0285par0471	That's right, that's right, but don't try to Vahabit him. Right, right, congratulations.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0472	Thanks, we'll build this together.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0285par0473	Don't try to Vahabit him, don't plant that culture.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0474	Where do we look, where do we turn?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0286par0475	We're gonna turn it into president.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0477	My dear brothers, we will turn our course to the whole world, and we will turn our course to our whole heart's geography. Wherever there is anyone in our geography, we will turn our course to all of these, all of these victims, all of the oppressed, but we will know that our root is this geography, our root is this land, this land of Anatolia and Rumeli. And hopefully we'll share our cultural savings here with the whole world. Again, about the donor country... A donor is not only a donor, but a donor is also a word used in the sense of a philanthropist, a word used in the meaning of a no-no owner.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0287par0479	So, you gave Greece 16 candidates for charity?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0480	You should be happy that Turkey is one of the world's donor countries.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0287par0481	I'd appreciate it if you didn't give me the islands.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0482	A friend of ours told me about the islands, if you'd like to open the matter of the islands in a session.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0287par0483	Don't go to that Balkan War, I say 2004, 2004.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0484	Thanks, we'll open the islands in another session, but the issue of the donor country is this: My dear friends, now, look, we've done Humanitarian Summit in Istanbul.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0288par0485	We owe $400 billion, you're showing off here and there!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0486	Everyone's coming, and we're talking about this Schengen visa. Ya, you're doing great as Turkey. You've got 3 million Syrians. Good job. Come on, you guys grab a seat. Why don't you contribute a little to this refugee problem in the world when the ant goes dark? Give me your shoulders to solve these huge, huge human problems in the world. They watch, they advise, and from time to time, they try to discipline us. But we say, let's see, you have an organization called UNHCR, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, where each country contributes according to its share. This High Commissioner comes to us, we talk, they do good work, they don't have money. The guys are looking, it's just an office. So let's see, this rich country, you build a fund here, and with this fund you've created, we'll solve these problems in the world with this kind of non-nationality. I'm proud to say that I'm also proud of being a donor country. As of 2014, Turkey is the third world in humanitarian aid and development aid in the world in terms of nominal value, and is the world's third in terms of non-national revenues. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In that sense, my dear friends, we want Turkey to be strong -- some of them being a little bit taken from the strong Turkish word -- to make sure that our citizen's standard of living improves. We want Turkey to be strong, to be a country that has domestic, national production, multi-producing and competitive. We want Turkey to be strong, to have the means to defend the threats against it. But what we mean by strong Turkey is not just an economicly strong, militaryly strong Turkey. What we understand from the powerful Turkey is a Turkey where each of our 79 million citizens sees themselves as the main owner of this country, where everyone is free, where everyone openly reveals their own beliefs, their lives. We want a strong Turkey not only because our citizens are strong. We want to have a strong Turkey, from Africa to the interior of Asia, from Mesopotamia to the south of Africa, in a vast geography, for all of our people, in our heart geography, to be strong. Turkey is on its way here. We'll discuss it inside, inside, we'll say every word to each other within reasonable limits. Politics is not the art of destruction; politics is not the art of knowing one's enemies. Politics is a matter of taking Turkey in the same direction, as opposed to the other. With this goal, we will move Turkey together with the goals of the 65th government and its 2023 goals. If there's a place we're missing, if you say the right thing, we'll go head to head. In some ways, if we don't agree with each other in Parliament, we'll go public, no matter what people decide. Now, look, for the last time, I'll tell you, it's business for coming back there: the presidential system. That's what we're saying, that's what the AK PARTY Group wants. We go to people, we never take anything but what people say. But in democracy, we never accept nor give bonuses: our habits, what we know, what we put in front of us as boundaries, what we put in front of us is true, we don't give bonuses to other truths. And we'll admit that if a fundamentally opposite opinion comes from the will of the nation, we'll put it on top of our heads. Now in this country... Dear brothers and sisters, last word: May 27th.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0289par0493	Mr. President, we demand one more minute.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0290par0494	Sir, can you wrap this up in two minutes, please?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0495	It's the anniversary of May 27th. Most of our friends here -- we have young friends -- didn't see any of it. I'm one of those who doesn't see May 27. We remember March 12th when we were kids. We lived September 12th, we lived February 28th, we lived April 27th, we lived December 17th and 25th.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0291par0496	May 4th...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0497	We've been through this. My dear brothers and sisters, in Turkey, that's all behind us now. We're all going to get this habit: I respect that idea, even though it's the opposite of what I think it is.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0292par0499	Good.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0500	The people who came out of the ark will cast a shadow on their will, and the democracy will say, "It's not just the chest."
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0292par0501	Like June 7th!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0273par0502	...or have no habit of insulting the choices that the nation has set out to be democratically. Let's drop the habit. It'll be what our people say it is. Again, I wouldn't have said this if that sentence hadn't been said: as long as this nation is in this country, this nation will be what this nation wants, and the Republican People's Party will not be what it wants. But if people accept the Republican People's Party's proposal, we have nothing to say to him. I offer you all respect and love. May the 65th government be blessed and blessed.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0293par0506	Thank you, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0294par0507	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0295par0508	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0293par0509	Sir, there are now three demands. Someone heard Mr. Erhan's need for an explanation from where he was sitting. One of them is Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0295par0510	Because of an earlier bullying.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0293par0511	Sir, I've reviewed the transcripts, and I'll give you my word in this session, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0295par0512	We won't say anything unfair, Mr. President, trust us.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0293par0513	Another one -- I'm seeing it now -- is Mr. Altay. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0296par0515	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister has stated that he has made a sentence in the form of blood to replace the Constitution with blood. In addition, we will never allow you to change the Constitution. He said that a sentence such as this was established by our party speakers. It's all wrong, and it's a tease. There's blood involved. The Deputy Prime Minister said something nice about that at the entrance of his speech that I would actually sign under it. I need to be clear about that in these two minutes, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0293par0517	Erhan Beyin asks for his place first.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0296par0518	Okay.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0293par0519	Here you are, Mr. Erhan.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0297par0522	Thank you, Mr. President. Actually, I'd like to thank Mr. Vice Prime Minister. He just confirmed my claim on the stand. My claim was that there was no reform in the economy during the AKP administrations, except in the public financial administration and the Court Act. The acts of the Court Act have been withdrawn. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister said "AR-Ge reform." I don't know what reform is here. But the spending has increased. It's a trend called bragging about the increase in spending; last time the Minister of Finance did it, I answered him on the stand. You're not proud of the increase in spending, you're not proud of the reform, you're looking at the result. If these AR-Ge spendings -- a small increase -- were to increase the share of high-tech products in our exports, for example, I'd say, Mr. Minister, they'd take off their hats and they'd be well-reformed, but let's see, in 2002, the share of high-tech products in exports dropped to 6.2 per cent today at 3.5 per cent. Where's the reform in that? He also mentioned social security. I don't know what you're talking about, but social security reform, as everyone knows... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Very short, Mr. President, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0298par0528	Please wrap it up.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0297par0529	Thank you. It's too short, now. Social security reform was the main reform in 1999, but the social security system today is seriously compromised by continued deviations from reform. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Social Security will receive a $103 billion transfer from the budget this year. I mean, there's been work done that'll take care of the reform. Other than that, he didn't say anything. So my claim has been fulfilled, and it really hasn't been reformed. And this donor thing needs to be made very brief. It's a good thing to do, but let's not forget this country... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...in the last 13 years, $468 billion was short. So using $468 billion of foreign resources to help someone out is something to brag about. So today, our economy is fragile, and today the economy is severely fragile. I can give you the numbers if I have to. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0299par0535	Thank you. Sir, I've reviewed the report on the speech of Mr. Mehmet Mush. That's what you asked for, Your Grace. ▪ Those who speak for the terrorist and the living bomb are practically encouraging us to go to funerals and go to the mountain, even report wrong and ambush our security forces. Look, just last week, under the roof of this House, those who called themselves representatives of the nation encouraged them to go up the mountain at another terrorist funeral. Yeah, well, even if those aren't your directs, here's a two-minute promise.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0300par0538	Where's the bullying, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0301par0539	Where's it gonna be? Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, Mr. Vice President is a young friend of ours, and he's just been appointed today, so let's just say good luck.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0302par0544	She's been chosen.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0303par0545	It's his first time.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0301par0546	But if he had some political experience...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0304par0547	He has political experience.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0305par0548	That's a shame.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0301par0549	I mean, even if he had been appointed, he would have known that on a first-day shift with a Prime Minister and the government, there was no diplomatic courtesy, no political style, no low profile, that this kind of bullying was actually disrespectful to the Prime Minister and the government.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0306par0550	Is that the answer?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0301par0551	However, I leave it to the General Assembly. Now, I don't want to answer at this level, but the level of teasing is so severe that we have to respond. Look, there's no need to give a long answer to this terror support thing. Mr. Tuğrul Türkesh, I don't know if he's here. I think the answer to the question you're looking for will be revealed if the Deputy Prime Minister, who swears that over 2,000 trucks didn't go to the Turkmen people and swear by it, comes out and tells them where those MIT trucks went. On the other hand, you talked about our situation in Diyarbakir. Look, I spent eight hours in the Wall, uninterrupted. I mean, the fact that the media, you know, the counter party, brought their people in there for a two-minute image, set up a setup...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0307par0554	Oh, shit!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0301par0555	Don't believe the news he ordered on it. Eight hours of shootings are in the Home Office, and all agencies have them. If you watch that footage for eight hours, you'll know what we're trying to say. Look, I have a document. You know what? The President will go to Diyarbakır province tomorrow, where he will attend the programmes where he will be present at 10:00 p.m. by school principals, vice principals, teachers, officers, servants and staff of İSKUR, and sign the signatures of those present at the government Hall on Saturday. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's a paper about his obligation.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0308par0560	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0301par0561	Thank God, we never went among the people of Diyarbakir under the obligation to sign, nor did we travel between the protection armies and our people.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0309par0562	You can't go any further.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0301par0563	We've got a clear head on that one. I hope it will happen to you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0310par0566	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0311par0567	Mr. Mehmet...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0310par0568	Mr. President, I didn't use a statement here that would justify any bullying. Mr. Orator has been harassing me by targeting my person.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0311par0569	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0312par0570	Look at the reports, the reports.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0311par0571	Ma'am, he mentioned his name in person, gave me his name.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0313par0572	He gave his name directly, directly.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0314par0573	It's called terror, it's responding, it's trying, it's responding, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0313par0574	He's taking it personally.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0315par0576	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm not going to go into a low profile, high profile debate with you here. I think you were elected in 2011, and I came in 2011. So don't go into this if you want to at the point of experience.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0316par0577	I said it for the group vice president.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0315par0578	I was on different missions at the party. From this angle -- I'm 34 years old -- I'm transferring this kind of language to our constituents, to our nation.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0316par0579	Your party officials are using that language, not us.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0315par0580	Secondly, my statements here are about terrorism. I tried to bring up whoever gave the support of the terrorist organization here. What is the matter with you? Are you hurt?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0316par0582	Yeah, look at the sentences you're using!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0315par0583	I'm talking about the atrocities committed by the terrorist organization, and it's coming from you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0317par0584	Shame, shame, you're the vice president of the group!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0315par0585	I'm talking about the massacre in the burrito, and it's coming from you. I'm talking about those who spoke for the terrorist organization, and you want to talk about bullying. What do you care about the terrorist organization's speech? Is that all I'm saying to you? I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0318par0588	Are you a spokesman for ISIS? You're the spokesman for ISIS!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0319par0589	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0320par0590	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0319par0591	Mr. Idris, you've made a statement, and our friend has made a statement. I mean, there's no end to it.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0320par0592	There's no end to it, and there's no end to it.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0321par0593	Cut through there, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0319par0594	The statements of Your Grace have been contained, and the statements of Mr. Mush have been contained. He said, "Don't let this go back to what he said, okay?"
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0322par0595	Look at the records, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0323par0596	Mr. President, look, an hour ago, when I asked for a word, you said you'd look at the documents.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0319par0597	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0323par0598	Then you didn't review the minutes when Mr. Home Secretary asked for the word, Mr. Group Vice President, and you didn't review the transcripts again when he asked for the word. So if you believe that this is a just attitude, I won't ask for a word on the stand, but if you have any doubts about justice, you have to promise me.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0319par0599	Look, we'll do what the esteemed MPs, the Civil Code and the Constitution say.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0324par0600	So, is the Civil Code the only thing that works on us, or isn't it?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0325par0601	Is this the only place it works?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0319par0602	And whether it's me or the vice presidents who run the House, they're going to act on scales, fair and square, that's neutrality. Let's read the Civil Code 69, which is different from the view that he made or proposed: the government, the commission, the political party group, or lawmakers, can and will respond. For explanations and answers, the president appreciates the time to make a commitment in the same session. Anyone who wants to make a statement in this manner will tell the President for what reason he wants to speak. The president appreciates whether or not to make promises. If anyone who has not been promised by the presidency resists, the General Assembly will not discuss it and will decide by sign. I am loyal to the Constitution, and to the Civil Law, as long as it is in effect. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE, Applause from CHP rows!] That's what I know.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0326par0607	Yeah, and stick to that side a little bit.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0327par0608	Let's move on to the agenda, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0319par0609	Now, you just said that I wanted to. As a matter of fact, the People's Democratic Party didn't exist, but I made a promise to you because of those indirect sentences I saw. There was something about the character in your speech. I didn't see anything to report or investigate, so I took credit for it. It's my right to appreciate it.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0328par0610	You're abusing your discretion, that's obvious.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0319par0611	Your Grace, you know all about this, you're the vice president of the group.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0328par0612	You're obviously abusing your discretion.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0319par0613	There's no mistake, sir. There's no injustice, sir. I've got the scales.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0329par0615	Let's move on, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0330par0616	Well, in that case, Mr. President, let me make it clear to you that he has to go on the record. So, Mr. Group Vice President has shown a bit of resentment, and due to my word, we need to correct him.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0329par0617	He said, "What else is he going to say, Mr. President?"
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0330par0618	I didn't refer to the process of getting elected MP by the people's votes. We also read today's process as an appointment from the group administration, as far as we've seen from the press. If there's a different way...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0331par0620	Choice, brother, choice!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0330par0621	Yeah, I'm fixing it, guys, I'm fixing it.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0332par0622	Excuse me, sir, please!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0330par0623	Okay, if he came in with an election, which means if he came in with an election, I'd like to make sure that Mr. Group Vice President doesn't get taken out of the sentences I said, which means we didn't use it right.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0333par0624	Yeah, it's on the record.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0334par0625	Who appointed Baluken? Who appointed him, who?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0330par0626	Mr. President, I mean, isn't that the way it is now?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0335par0627	Please, come in.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0330par0628	Yeah, look, we're just trying to make some mistakes right, so we're just trying to get them on the record.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0335par0629	Yes, sir, there are compromises, thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0330par0630	We can talk about anything here, we can be very critical of each other, but every criticism we make has to be followed by a certain form of diplomatic courtesy and political style. We are all legal parties who have come here with the votes of the people, and the accusations that will go beyond that cause serious problems in Turkey. I'm going to end this today by expressing the precision of the process. Tomorrow, Mr. Prime Minister and President go to Diyarbakır. The people of Diyarbakir and all of Turkey are expected to present a different set of rhetorics and declarations of some policies regarding the solution to this huge problem.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0336par0632	Just don't cast a shadow!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0330par0633	That's what we're waiting for. I hope so. In other matters, we always use our right to answer from the stand. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0337par0635	Thank you, sir. Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0338par0637	Mr. President, I've just submitted it. I think you've forgotten.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0337par0638	Don't mention it. Well, let it be contained again, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0338par0639	Mr. Vice Prime Minister has made accusations that we would never allow the Constitution to change. It's not true, it's a taunt.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0339par0640	Mr. Kilicdaroğlu's words.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0337par0641	Two minutes, please. Let's not afford another tease. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0340par0644	Sir, isn't Mr Kemal Kılıçdaroglu saying he didn't tell you?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0341par0645	I'll tell you what you said. What am I supposed to do if you don't understand?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0342par0646	He's not making any sense, he's going to tell you from the stand now.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0343par0647	We invite democracy.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0344par0648	Tell me what you really mean.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0345par0649	Speak people's language so everyone can understand.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0346par0651	Thank you. Mr. Vice Prime Minister actually sums up what Mr. President meant at the beginning of his speech on the stand, and I thank him. Because, as our Deputy Prime Minister began his speech, he said change, but he highlighted something, persistently and carefully. Look, I'm not saying regime, it's not regime; we're going to change the system, we're going to change the system. Of course, the only thing that doesn't change is change, it's possible. The constitution changes, the system changes, the regime changes. Oh, there's no such thing as regime change, but regime change is a separate business, my friends. The diet of blood changes with blood. [ARK PARTY AAAAAAAAAAAW, Applause] The system changes.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0347par0653	For God's sake! For God's sake!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0348par0654	You've gone further than Mr. Kilicdaroglu.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0346par0655	Yeah, yeah, I meant what I said. Why did Mr. Vice Prime Minister take over? Why did the Deputy Prime Minister take over, not the regime, the system. Why did he insist on stressing that? He thinks the same way I do, and he thinks the same way, no doubt about it. That's what it's all about.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0349par0656	Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0350par0657	Warning, Mr. President, he's talking about blood. Warn him, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0346par0658	Not that we're interested in bleeding when we say that, when we say blood flows. The previous government has already turned the country into a bloodbath, but we're making a warning, a high sensitivity.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0351par0659	Go red.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0346par0660	Come on, we say don't interrupt this nation.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0351par0661	They won't let you in.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0346par0662	We say, "Don't divide this nation by,,,,,,,,,,,,." We say don't divide this nation by Turkish-Kurt. We say don't divide this nation by Sunni-Alevi.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0352par0663	You interrupted it, you did.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0346par0664	Together, as brothers, we wish to continue a thousand years of brotherhood. It's not blood-screaming to reveal this high sensitivity, it's supposed to be taken like this.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0353par0665	Blood-screaming, blood.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0352par0666	Blood, blood.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0346par0667	I thank Mr. Survivor again. By revealing the difference between the regime and the system, you have been able to translate our thoughts, Deputy Prime Minister, thank you very much. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0354par0670	Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0355par0671	He mentioned the presidential system.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0356par0672	What kind of twist is that? Mr. President, who's the first person to get that blood on their hands?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0357par0673	You're the blood man! Don't make me talk! You've got blood on your hands! Jesus Christ! You don't know anything, you're talking!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0358par0674	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0359par0675	Why are you getting angry? May 27th... why are you getting angry?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0360par0676	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0361par0677	Mr. Numan Survivor, come in, sir, I promise you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0360par0679	Mr. President, dear friends, I have taken the statement from the Republican People's Party spokesman, who insisted that the constitutional change would not give the Republican People's Party an opportunity. He said that in an argument about the presidential system.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0362par0680	He doesn't say "Regim," he says "system."
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0360par0681	There was no regime discussion here in any way.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0363par0682	That's how you came in, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0360par0683	The subject of the regime is on the agenda...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0363par0684	You just walked in.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0360par0685	No, just so you don't get it, just so we don't get it so that no one of our friends can bring up the presidential system and change the regime or anything, but our Republican People's Party friend here won't say that.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0363par0686	The presidential system is not a regime change...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0360par0687	Dear friends, in Turkey, the republic is no one's monopoly.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0363par0688	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0360par0689	And Islam is no one's monopoly.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0363par0690	Yes, it's beautiful. It's beautiful.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0360par0691	Therefore, no one in this country has any concern about the republic, any other pursuit of the republic; I mean the general majority.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0363par0693	Very good, very good.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0360par0694	But, I'm sorry, what we have to have is what we have to crown the republic, and if we find Turkey at a different point than most countries around us today, what makes us different is that the chest is obvious. Those who couldn't stomach the will that came out of the chest, on the 27th of May, when we were on our anniversary, yes, they shed blood in Turkey. What we mean is that everyone respects the Republic, there's no problem with that, but everybody respect democracy. These people do what they want, and these people bring whatever system they want. If he wants the presidency, that's fine. If he wants the presidency, that's fine. But it's not the Republican People's Party that's going to give us a chance to change the constitution when there's a Republican People's Party in this country. What does that mean, for God's sake? I wonder what democratic way...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0364par0696	If a person takes all the power in his hand, we will not allow it. What's the big deal, Mr. Vice Prime Minister?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0360par0697	Oh, brother, do you have that kind of power, do you have that right?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0364par0698	No, it's clear what Mr. General President said. One man shall command, and one man shall obey the judgment, and one man shall command, and the assembly shall obey.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0365par0699	Mr. Bulent, please...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0364par0700	Why don't you take the lead on that promise? Why don't you take the lead on that promise?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0365par0702	Please do not interfere, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0366par0703	I'll tell you one thing: the presidential system or the party president came to Parliament, groups like last week's immunity meeting were released, everyone voted the way they wanted, we found 367, what are you going to do? You found 330, what are you going to do? That's what I mean.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0367par0704	Are they going to shed blood?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0368par0705	Mr. President, let's answer this from the stand. There's no such procedure!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0369par0706	Mr. Bulent, I beg you, do not interfere.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0368par0707	No, let's answer that from the stand.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0370par0708	If you'll excuse me. That's what I mean.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0371par0710	But let him finish, sir. Don't break my will, let him finish.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0372par0711	Okay. Why is he asking us?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0371par0712	I'll listen to you. I'll listen to you, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0373par0713	The path is clear in democracy, the elected lawmakers decide, it happens; if not, we make a different decision that we don't want -- I just told you -- we respect it too. I insist, once again, in terms of public enlightenment... the debate is not a regime debate, it is a system debate.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0374par0714	Thanks, okay, that's what I said.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0373par0715	There is no need for a new regime. If we can understand what our Engin brother is saying, Mr. Presidents and themselves, we didn't mean it in this sense, we were misunderstood. If you say that your apology is accepted, we accept your apology, and you are misunderstood.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0374par0717	I'm not sorry, just a minute... Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0375par0719	Mr. Engin, Mr. Bulent has a request before your witness.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0374par0720	No, no, this way.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0375par0721	Mr. Bulent has a request, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0374par0722	Sir, I'm out, I'm up. I'm standing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0375par0723	Here, sir, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0376par0724	Mr. Engin, it's May 27th, according to him!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0374par0725	It's because of people who think like you, May 27th. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've already pointed out to him that your initial sensibilities on the stand are ours. In this country, of course, the system changes, the only thing that doesn't change is change. It's a case where we have a high sensitivity to the secular quality of the republic, but I know and claim one thing: the vast majority of 23 million 600 thousand people who voted for you has no problem with secularism, it has adopted it, it has internalized it; I think so.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0377par0730	We don't have a problem either.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0378par0731	Neither do we.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0374par0732	But, no doubt, there are people who vote for you, or there are people who have a problem with the upper, lower secularism -- in the direction of your party.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0379par0733	No, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0374par0734	That's what our sensitivity is about, limited by that. Of course, when people who came in the polls stepped in for radical changes, chaos formed in different countries of the world, and blood naturally flowed. We're warning Turkey of such danger. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's not a threat.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0379par0737	Is it natural bloodshed? Is it natural to bleed, Mr. Engin?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0374par0738	But, again, it's not easy to change regimes. That's it.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0380par0739	Thank you. Mr. Bulent...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0381par0741	Sir, the group vice president has responded before.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0382par0742	Mr. President, a moment ago, Mr. Hatip, the Deputy Prime Minister turned directly to us and asked questions from the bench, not to address the General Assembly. ▪ What will you do if the citizen votes? Allow me to exercise my right to explain.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0381par0743	He's asking the group, they've been answered on behalf of the group.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0383par0744	No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Is this an open session, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0381par0745	The deputy leader of the group responded.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0384par0746	Sir, the group's deputy president has announced it, Mr. Brent. I promised them, I promised him.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0385par0747	No, sir, he asked us directly. By twisting, altering the word the General President did not say.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0386par0748	Have them release it to the press, sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0384par0749	And these have been contained in your statements. Who asked for the word, sir?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0387par0751	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0384par0752	Sir.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0387par0753	The Deputy Prime Minister is asking us questions.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0388par0754	Sir, this is not a question-and-answer area, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0387par0755	I mean, there's nothing without that question, but if he doesn't ask, it's okay if he calls the General Assembly. Allow us to answer.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0389par0756	Mr. Engin answered!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0390par0757	Mr. Engin, we've given you a right.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0391par0758	Please...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0390par0759	The gentleman will give it to you?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0391par0760	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0390par0761	Mr. Bulent, please. But let's not continue this taunt, this conversation, this dialogue, please. May I have your attention, please?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0392par0763	Don't doubt it.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0393par0764	What will you do if the nation brings in the presidency? I'm curious. Give me an answer to that.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0392par0767	Congressmans, once everything is done in accordance with Parliamentary law and then the nation makes a decision, no one has anything to say in democratic procedures.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0394par0769	That's what we're saying.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0395par0770	I'm clapping! It's beautiful!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0396par0771	Don't let Kılıçdaroğlu hear!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0397par0772	The debate here is not about the presidential system or the parliamentary system. The debate in Turkey is a debate on democracy or dictatorship.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0398par0774	That's your business!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0397par0775	And Mr. General President's speech on that day at the TOBB has a priority. Don't take half of the word and throw it away and try to get it out of there in a flash. What did Mr. President say? I've just said that here you are trying to bring such a system under the presidential regime that one person will give instructions, governments will be destroyed, one person will give instructions, Parliament will follow him...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0399par0776	Where did you see him from? Who gave it to you? Where is it?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0397par0777	One person will instruct him, and the judge will obey him, and one person will instruct him, and the whole community will obey him!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0399par0778	Are you reading intent?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0397par0779	It is called dictatorship, not the presidential regime or government system, and if you impose it in Turkey, you can't bring it without bloodshed, he said. We'll shed blood. We don't say blood.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0400par0780	It's clear what the presidential system means.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0397par0781	Mr. President told me what trend you're in. Do not be in the throes of the guilty, but listen. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0401par0784	You're trying to fix what Mr. General President did.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0402par0785	Sir, thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0403par0786	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0402par0787	Our Minister has a request again.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0404par0788	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0402par0789	Your Grace, you want to talk about it, too?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0404par0790	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0402par0791	If you'll excuse me, Mr. Secretary, they asked for a word earlier. However, I would like to say that there is Ahmet Pasha, the court poet, the time of the Conqueror.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0405par0793	Tell me about your military memories!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0402par0794	He's got a nice veteran, and he saved him from the execution, rescued him from the dungeon. The 4th verse of each veteran ends as follows: What happens if the Servant makes a mistake? Guys, sometimes there's something wrong, and I'm not wrong, so don't take it like that! Mine's a legal request, I won't give it up. Maybe it's the wrong thing to say, what if we say sorry? What if Allah should make a mistake for His bondman? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0406par0797	You've rebutted yourself, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0407par0798	You've broken the 4th verse!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0402par0799	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0408par0801	Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to say that I didn't come up here to continue this discussion when I started my promise. If we had time, I wish we could talk about it around a table for a long time. I didn't want to take the stand after Mr. Engin's compromise, but I'd like to say that I don't agree with him to keep the same words. What do you mean, folks... once again, there's not a regime debate in Turkey, but what are we going to do about it if the House -- I said that question to make it better understood -- if Parliament makes any decisions, if it passes with 367?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0409par0803	We'll go to the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0408par0804	Besides, it's a constitutional amendment, as it was before, there's been a lot of constitutional changes. Not enough numbers have gone to the nation in Parliament, and what do we do if the nation accepts this with a vote of more than 50 per cent? That's what we say. We're gonna respect that, so we're all gonna say whatever system we think we're closer to. However, Turkey's politics has been debated through the system and order. I know that you all have a deep enough political fund to know that. Has the regime changed in Turkey because the late Ecevit said so? Has the regime changed in Turkey because Erbakan the deceased told the village village in Turkey about his words? Whoever the people voted for, got out of the trunk, got powered, became a coalition partner in the amount of power, led and passed. In Turkey, people... Look, dear friends, we went to the polls in 2007; in Turkey, in the current constitutional system, as of the President's position, the nation made a very important change, and the apocalypse broke out, for God's sake? In 2007, the nation took a step that allowed the president to be elected directly by the people's vote, and that was a remarkable democratic development in Turkey. Because, along with this step, the people have eliminated the Ali Fuat Archgil tradition from Turkish politics. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) So in Turkey...
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0410par0808	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0408par0809	I'm just saying my last words. That is why, as long as the President is elected by the people's vote, no one has the authority to use some unofficial powers behind closed doors to prevent anyone from becoming President or appoint someone as President using powers that do not come from the people's will. As long as the nation chooses the President -- I'm very clear -- no one from the market, no one from the market, no one from the nation's song, no one from the country's song, no one from the history of the nation, no culture, no one from the nation's woes in this country. (EC PARTY Applause) The issue is so clear, and it's the people's choice. The nation made its choice in 2007. And when I say that, I don't mean as an imposition, but whatever's in people's sociology, I want to say that he directs politics. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0411par0813	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In order to express his views on behalf of him, Istanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu belongs to him. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0412par0819	Mr. President, why don't you tell me Mr. Bacheloroglu's titri? You've introduced the minister before this as a doctor, you've introduced him as a doctor, Mr. Bachelor. Mr. Bacheloroğlu doesn't need this, but why don't you say Professor Dr. Mehmet Bacheloglu?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0411par0820	If you look at him, I have many friends with academic titles, such as Ahmet Bey. I mean, I don't mean anything by it.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0413par0821	You didn't tell him. He's just saying.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0412par0822	Well, you should have. Why don't you tell me?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0414par0823	Why don't you tell him, that's what he's asking. Tell the AKP people, don't tell the others!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0415par0824	It has been declared that I didn't mean it, Mr. Musa, thank you.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0412par0825	But from now on, don't do that, don't give me a title.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0415par0826	Here you go, Professor.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0416par0828	Mr. President, dear friends, I have been promised to express my personal thoughts on the 65th Government's Programme. I salute you all. Today, Mr. Prime Minister did not listen to the opposition while his government programme was being discussed. This is the first time this Parliament has ever seen anything like this. I'd like to point out that this is disrespectful to Parliament. My dear friends, in the days of the Justice and Development Party, Erbakan Hodja said they were bewitched. He also told me who the wizard was, but I'll keep him.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0417par0831	Does the Minister know who the wizard is?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0416par0832	When I saw your leader's message standing up at the May 22nd convention, I gave the teacher another pass. Yeah, there's a spell, there's an illusion, there's really an illusion. There are some among you who know (the truth). However, the mass, the majority, I'm not saying that for the public, so the words I'm going to say next are in no way relevant to AKP voters. Now let me give you a few examples, folks. Your program is rock over rock, counter terrorism, road, bridge, democracy, rule of law, rule of law, presidential system, rights, freedoms. Your spokesman, Mr. Survivor, said "The Government of Progress" and "Reformation." I'm saying it's not true, it's illusion. If you're saying that after 14 years of power, you've done nothing in 14 years or you're trying to enthrall the nation. If you applaud the word "reform" and breakthrough after 14 years, it's an illusion, my dear friends. It's not like that, guys. Look, don't get me wrong, I'm saying this based on Bali Bey's charm, his sense of humor, or I'm not implying anything about his position as Prime Minister. He said, "We have divided the roads, we have united the people." No, guys, that's not true. You didn't just divide the roads, you divide the people, you divide the society. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Wait, I'm going to talk about split roads, double road corruption. Yes, there has never been so much polarization in this society as in your time, so much hostility, this society has never seen so much tension. You're going to have a nation, a national will, a national and a native.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0418par0838	You're wrong, Professor!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0416par0839	It's an illusion, an illusion of perception. For God's sake, who are you people? You have removed from the nation those of you who do not think as you do, and those who do not live as you do, and those who do not obey you; and you write to the faithful, or even to the traitor, or to the terrorist. I'm asking you: come on, you're 50 percent, what about the other 50 percent? You're saying it's not that. Let's say it's 40 percent, what's it gonna be?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0419par0841	It's ten years old, Hajji!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0416par0842	I'm asking you what happened when you had your National Union and Brotherhood project. It's all illusion. Yes, you've divided society and you've divided society dangerously.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0420par0843	Actually, this is a tent!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0416par0844	Look, dear friends, you're writing everyone to the enemy. Let alone those who are not of you, even those who go with you, say, 'Hain.' You're talking about national will, pluralism, participation, national sovereignty, illusion, illusion. These things don't happen in this segregating and exclusive painting you've set up. Then, what is it you call the sovereignty of the nation? At the convention, Mr. Bozdağ highlighted that we are Recep Tayyip. He said, "We are the party. We are the party." A while ago, he was a man of the nation, and now he's a man of the nation. You're standing there listening to his message, standing at my altar. Mr. Home Secretary, I'm an imam-gap graduate, I know religion. He tried to teach me a lesson. Well, Mr. Home Secretary, should we or should we not repent? Guys, think about what this means. Look, you say the Presidential system, you say the Turkish-type presidential system. Your reason is to clear the way for Turkey. This is illusion, my dear friends. There is nothing blocking Turkey's path. There's nothing holding you and Mr. President back. What did you ask for, and you didn't? Look, yesterday, a vice president of yours says that the ▪ The presidential system actually began. What does that mean, my friends? Remember, the Kenan Universe had struck, suspended the Constitution and created a real state, and then he chose people, formed the Council of Counsellors, and said, "Constitute the Constitution in accordance with the final situation." So, what's the difference between you and the Universe? Oh, you'll say: being chosen. True, but remember, the Universe took the Constitution to the nation and got 92 percent approval. Friends, you limit democracy by choice, by vote. It's not that, it's an illusion. Of course, without an election, there is no democracy, but without law, without supervision, there is no democracy, and it is not the democratic constitution that is based on the actual situation, my friends. It's the constitution of the coup, at least.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0421par0849	Today is May 27th, May 27th!
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0416par0850	Look, you've obviously taken off your national vision shirt before, and now you're taking off your democracy shirt. Guys, I can tell you the illusion you're having, but I don't have time. Look, let me sum up your situation in one sentence: you've accomplished the destruction, but you've replaced it with nothing, other than rebuilding a bad old custody system. You're legitimizing all this with the rise of civilization, and that's illusion. It's not civilization you're building, it's TOKI freak. I know you well, I've analyzed you many times. You have fallen under the spell of greatness, my dear friends. You do the world's biggest jobs, buildings, everything. In fact, it's an expression of insecurity. Here's your work, Istanbul, here's Turkey, the largest stadiums in the world you've ever built, all named ίarena. What kind of civilization? You killed the neighborhood once. You've separated people, you've stopped saying hello. Are you going to build a civilization without greetings, my dear friends, or a concrete civilization? Look, when you were on your way out, you said it was fair and free Turkey, but unfortunately, you buried justice and freedom on the pavement, and you poured concrete on it. Mr. Buli, you know the bridge, the tunnel, the road. What about corruption? You keep calling the December 17-25 the coup attempt, which is a cover-up. However, the U.S. Attorney says it's not so. But so be it. Look, there's corruption. To say that we don't need December 17-25, there's a great pile of wealth everywhere, even in small towns, there's luxury, there's luxury, there's fancy, there's jeeps like buss with license plates everywhere, my dear friends. I remember very well, Mr. President, when Asim was President of Istanbul, he was poor because he didn't know how to steal. He was right. He said, friends, I remind him. I'm asking the Prime Minister, where does all this luxury, all this wealth come from? It's not like that, guys. It's not a coup, it's an illusion. The economy is very good, we've finished the debts, we don't owe IMF anything. You say, that's the illusion. Yeah, you do bridges, roads, malls, we don't call it anything, but how do you do the roads? You're saying we spent 100 million dollars on the road to Duble. Yes, that's right. How many double roads did you make? It's over 18,000. We're dividing it by over $5 million, so it costs $2 million per mile. You're spending $2 million per kilometre, but we've looked at it, and it costs $250 tops. Where are you taking the rest, dear friends? What pools are they boiling in? What nation do you send these to the men who curse?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0422par0858	Everyone can participate in the tender, the tender is open to everyone; enter, take.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0416par0859	Guys, basically, your situation is power poisoning. You misread and abused the support and authority of the nation. What's the matter with you? What's 50,000 people standing by in front of a person's message, guys? I don't know what else to say, it tells me everything. We call it the Dictator, you get angry. The patent of Pharaoh's word belongs to my friend Numan Bey. What should we say? The leader's cult, it's not happening, either, to tell us what local and national words you're going to find?
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0423par0861	President.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0416par0862	Look, let me tell you something from the Prophet, and I'll finish. One of the Greek provinces comes to Medina. In Medina, in Mecca, in Arabia, something happens, a man tells a new religion, builds a state, wonders what happens. He comes to Medina, and says, "Show me where Muhammad is." I'm saying it with his mouth. He sits there, under the shadow. They call him. He's looking, there's five or six people out there, he can't pick. Brother Yahu, show me this state, the man who spreads this religion. Where's Mohammed? Between them, they call it. How come? He says, and he marvels. Five or six people, one who chats with their friends and stays with the others. This is the Prophet, this is the religion, this is my dear friends of Islam. Why did the teacher have his son and his daughter's wedding at a five - star hotel? I ask the lynchers: "Is this the way you are? These palaces, this luxury, this luxury, these hundreds of motorcades, these affluences, are these arrogances the Prophet's condition, my friends? I'll leave the evaluation to you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-05-27sit02spe0424par0866	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Bachelor. Members of parliament, talks on the Council of Ministers programme have been completed. The vote of confidence must be carried out one day after the end of the talks, according to Articles 124 of the Constitution, the 110th, and the 124th Amendment. According to this, the vote of confidence will be held on Sunday (May 29, 2016). According to the decision taken, it is 11 p.m. on Sunday (May 29th 2016) to vote on the confidence of the Council of Ministers established by Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım Bey. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00. Thank you.
