tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the Central Management Budget Bill of 2017 and the Central Management Act of 2015. Under the schedule, we'll be doing the sixth round of interviews today. The sixth round includes the budget and final accounts of the National Education Ministry, Higher Education Board, Higher Education Board, Measurement, Selection and Placement Centre Chairman, universities, Youth and Sports Ministry, Sports General Directorate, Higher Education Credit and Housing Institution, Ministry of Environment and Urbanisation and Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate. 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Ministry of National Education for Central Management in 2015 1) The Board of Higher Education 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2017 is the chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) The Head of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2015 Central Management Final Account a) Ankara University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Ankara University Central Management Final Account for 2015 2) ORTA EAST TECHNIC UNIVERSITY a) Middle East Technical University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Middle East Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) Hacettepe University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Hacettepe University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Gazi University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Gazi University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) İstanbul University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) İstanbul University Central Executive Account for 2015 a) İstanbul Technical University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) İstanbul Technical University Central Executive Account for 2015 a) Boğaziçi University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Bosporus University 2015 Central Management Final Account a) Marmara University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Marmara University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Yıldız Technical University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Star Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2015 10) THE UNIVERSE OF MINAR SINAN BEAUTIFUL ARTS A) Architect Sinan Fine Arts University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Architect Sinan University of Fine Arts 2015 Central Management Final Account a) Ege University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Ege University Central Management Final Account for 2015 A) 9 September University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) 9 September University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) Thrace University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Thrace University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) Uludağ University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Uludağ University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) Anadolu University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Anadolu University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) Selçuk University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Selçuk University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Mediterranean University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Mediterranean University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) Ercijas University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Ercijas University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) Cumhuriyet University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Cumhuriyet University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) Çukurova University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Çukurova University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) 19 May University Central Management Budget 2017 B) 19 May University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Black Sea Technical University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Black Sea Technical University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Ataturk University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Ataturk University Central Management Account for 2015 A) Inönü University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Inönü University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Fırat University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Firat University Central Management Account for 2015 a) Dicle University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Dicle University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Centennial University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Centennial University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) Gaziantep University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Gaziantep University Central Management Final Account 2015 29) INSTITUTE INSTITUTION OF INDISTINCT TECHNOLOGY a) İzmir Institute of Higher Technology 2017 Central Management Budget B) İzmir Institute of Higher Technology 2015 Central Management Final Account a) Gebze Technical University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Gebze Technical University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Harran University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Harran University Central Management Final Account 2015 A) Süleyman Demirel University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Suleiman Demirel University Central Management Account for 2015 A) Adnan Menderes University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Adnan Menderes University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Bulent Ecevit University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Blunt Ecevit University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) Mersin University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Mersin University Central Management Final Account 2015 A) Pamukkale University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Pamukkale University Central Management Final Account 2015 A) Balıkesir University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Balıkesir University Central Management Account for 2015 A) Alexei University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Alexei University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) Sakarya University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Sakarya University Central Management Final Account for 2015 40) MANISA CELAL UNIVERSE a) Manisa Celal Bayar University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Celal Bayar University Central Management Final Account 2015 41) ABANT UNIVERSE A) Abant Izzet Baysal University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Abant Izzet Baysal University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) Mustafa Kemal University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Mustafa Kemal University Central Management Account for 2015 A) Afyon Kocatepe University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Afyon Kocatepe University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Kafkas University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Kafkas University Central Management Final Account 2015 45) CHUNKKALE ONSELVES MART UNIVERSE a) Çanakkale Eighteen Mart University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Çanakkale University of March 18, 2015 Central Management Final Account a) Ömer Halisdemir University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Niğde University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) Dumlupınar University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Dumlupınar University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) Gaziosmanpaşa University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Gaziosmanpaşa University Central Management Final Account for 2015 49) MUGLA STUDENT STUDENT UNIVERSE A) Muğla Sıtkı Koçman University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Mugla Sıtkı Koçman University Central Management Account 2015 50) KARAMANMANMAN SURVIVING UNIVERSE A) Kahramanmarash Milker İmam University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Heromarash Milker Imam University Central Management Account 2015 A) Kırıkkale University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Kırıkkale University Central Management Account for 2015 52) EXECUTIVE OSMAN UNIVERSITY A) Eskişehir Osman Gazi University 2017 Central Management Budget B) Eskişehir Osman Gazi University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) Galatasaray University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Galatasaray University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Ahi Evran University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Ahi Evran University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Kastamon University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Kastamonon University Central Management Final Account 2015 A) Düzce University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Düzce University Central Management Final Account for 2015 57) MEHMET AKIF ERSOY UNIVERSITY a) Mehmet Akif Ersoy University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Mehmet Akif Ersoy University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) Uğur University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Uğur University Central Management Final Account for 2015 59) RECEP TERRORAL UNIVERSE a) Recep Tayyip Erdogan University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Recep Tayyip Erdogan University Central Administration Final Account for 2015 A) Namik Kemal University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Namik Kemal University Central Management Account for 2015 a) Erzincan University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Erzincan University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Aksaray University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Aksaray University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Giresun University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Giresun University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Hitit University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Hitit University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Bozok University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Bozok University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) Adıyaman University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Adıyaman University Central Management Account 2015 a) Army University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Military University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) Amasya University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Amasya University Central Management Final Account 2015 A) Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey University Central Management Final Account for 2015 70) ALONG IBRAHAM UNIVERSE A) Ağrı İbrahim Chechen University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Ağrı İbrahim Chechen University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Sinop University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Sinop University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Siirt University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Siirt University Central Management Final Account 2015 73) THE UNIVERSE OF VICTIMAL BEKTAS VICTIMS A) Nevşehir Hacı Bektaş Veli University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Nevşehir Haci Bektas Veli University Central Management Account 2015 a) Karabük University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Karabük University Central Management Final Account for 2015 75) CHURCH UNIVERSITY OF DECEMBER 7 A) Kilis 7 December University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Kilis University of December 7th 2015 Central Management Final Account a) Çanırı Karateken University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Çankırı Karateken University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Artvin Çoruh University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Artvin Çoruh University Central Management Final Account 2015 78) THE UNIVERSITY OF BILECTIC HEITH A) Bilecik Sheikh Edebali University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Bilecik Sheikh Edebali University Central Management Account for 2015 a) Bitlis Eren University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Bitlis Eren University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Kırklareli University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Cırklareli University Central Management Final Account 2015 81) OSMANI SCARED ATTA UNIVERSE a) Osmaniye Korkuş Ata University 2017 Central Management Budget B) Osmaniye Korkuş Ata University 2015 Central Management Final Account a) Bingöl University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Bingöl University Central Management Account for 2015 A) Mus Alparslan University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Muş Alparslan University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) Mardin Artuklu University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Mardin Artuklu University Central Administration Final Account for 2015 a) Batman University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Batman University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Ardahan University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Ardahan University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Bartın University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Bartın University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Bayburt University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Bayburt University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Güverhane University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Silverhane University Central Management Account 2015 a) Hakkari University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Hakkari University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) Iğdır University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Iğdır University Central Management Account for 2015 a) Şırnak University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Şırnak University Central Management Account for 2015 a) Munzur University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Tunceli University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Yalova University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Yalova University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Turkish German University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Turkey's German University's Central Executive Account for 2015 96) ANKARA STAR BEYAZIT UNIVERSITY a) Ankara Yıldırım Çakıt University 2017 Central Management Budget B) Yıldırım Akıt University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Bursa Technical University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Bursa Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) İstanbul Civiliyet University 2017 Central Management Budget B) İstanbul Civility University Central Management Final Account for 2015 99) UNIVERSITY OF EMPLOYMENT a) İzmir Kâtip Çelebi University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) İzmir Kâtip Çelebi University Central Management Final Account 2015 a) Necmettin Erbakan University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Necmettin Erbakan University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) Abdullah Gül University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Abdullah Gul University Central Management Final Account for 2015 a) Erzurum Technical University Central Management Budget in 2017 B) Erzurum Technical University Central Management Final Account 2015 103) THE UNIVERSE OF ADANA AND TEKNOLOGY a) Adana University of Science and Technology Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Adana University of Science and Technology 2015 Central Management Final Account 104) THE UNIVERSE OF ANKARA SOCIAL MEMORY a) Ankara Social Sciences University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Ankara University of Social Sciences 2015 Central Management Final Account A) Health Sciences University Central Management Budget for 2017 B) Health Sciences University Central Management Final Account for 2015 106) BANDIRM ON SEPTEMBER UNIVERSITY a) Bandirma Seventeen Eylül University Central Management Budget in 2017 a) Alexanderun Technical University Central Management Budget in 2017 108) ALANYA ALAADDIN KEYCUT UNIVERSITY a) Alanya Aladdin Keykubat University Central Management Budget in 2017 1) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account 2015 1) Sports General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Higher Education Loans and Homes Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Higher Education Credit and Homes Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2015 Central Management Final Account EPISODE AND KADISTRO GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2015 Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament -- before we speak -- last night, when we were preparing to celebrate the ambassador's ambassadors, we all experienced a great deal of pain. Turkey faces a new terrorist attack at a time when it will make a big move, overcome its problems, try to achieve its goal. Sometimes the extras change, but the game's the same game, the scene's the same scene. In Istanbul, 29 of our brothers were martyred, many of whom were police officers, as a result of a despicable attack by a rogue terrorist organization. Once again, we curse this vile attack and terror with violence and hatred. I wish God's mercy to our brothers and sisters who have been treacherously martyred, and my condolences to their relatives and to all our people, and to our wounded brothers and sisters, and to God we pray for immediate healing. We say to our union, our brotherhood, our peace and security, all together, to murderers and their cruel masters, that you will never succeed. You can't beat this nation, you can't divide this country. You will not bring Turkey to its knees. Because we will not leave our country to terror and terrorists, and we will never give in to the owners who hold their hand. More than ever, we will be one and together, and we will show our brotherhood to friends and enemies in the most powerful way. As Muhiyi said: With a finger, we don't count. We're not exhausted by martyrdom, No one knows, my dear fellow. By asking from our country. Even if we do politics in different political parties, even if we have different ideas and ideology, if it's a country, if it's a nation, if we have all the values that we have in common with our martyrs, and if we share in social and national issues such as terrorism, we make a common stand against terrorism and show our mutual determination once again in the most powerful way. Dear MPs, again, today is a blessed day. I also congratulate you in the hope that the blessed birth of our Prophet, the prophet of justice and mercy, sent as a mercy to all the worlds, would bring peace and peace to our country, to the Islamic world and to humanity. On this occasion, once again, I curse all terrorist organizations and terrorist acts, and I thank all of you with the names of Lord Kahhar. And I thank you, all of you, with the names of all the terrorist organizations and supporters. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] Now, before I make any promises, I'm going to make a two-minute commitment to the members of the group who entered the system. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0002par0375	Thank you, Mr. President. We're in deep pain again with the nation. We regret to inform you that 79 million of our people are an open target of terrorist organizations. This painting is not a painting Turkey can carry. In such situations, no doubt political assessment is the last thing to be done for political debate. In such cases, unity and common stance are what society expects from our Parliament and the political institution. However, this attack is undoubtedly to the unity of our state and our nation, to the back of our republic, with foreign support, foreign support, and their iron in Turkey -- regardless of their purpose, whatever it is -- our security guards and two civilian martyrs, one of which is my very close friend's son tomorrow. It's a great pain for Turkey. However, it is also our desire and desire that our government work in a more sensitive, preventive way of dealing with terrorism. Congressmans, Parliament is the only and only solution to each problem, as we have said several times.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0003par0379	I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0002par0380	Of course, all the MPs in our parliament are burning equally, and it hurts. But in the face of this painting, it is necessary for our Parliament to take a common stance, which is what society expects us to do. May God have mercy on our martyrs. We have many wounded, and I wish you a speedy recovery. I wish patience and patience to our fallen relatives, our nation's head. I hope and hope this is the last time. We hereby congratulate the Republican People's Party Group on our blessed lamp. As of this blessed night and day, we wish Turkey would not suffer any more. My respects.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0004par0383	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0005par0386	Thank you, Mr. President. 29 of our citizens, our children were killed and 166 of our citizens were injured in the terrorist attack in Istanbul last night. We saw the bloody and disgusting face of terror one more time last night, and Istanbul was covered in vile, brutal blood. We curse all terror attacks with hate. Wherever it comes from, our nation's unity, terror, our state's realm, is trying to destroy our future hopes using every means and channel. The goal of terrorism is our nation, all our citizens and the Republic of Turkey, our unity, our receptacle. First of all, we're gonna take care of our unity, of our elbows. Those who want to drag Turkey into a blind spot, into a becca problem will never succeed. They will not break the will of the Turkish nation to live as one and whole forever. It must not be forgotten that the fight against terrorism is a process that cannot be undone. Our struggle must continue decisively under any circumstances. We have no choice but to destroy terror altogether. We will surely bury the scoundrels who dare challenge the Republic of Turkey in their own swamps. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0006par0391	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0005par0392	On this occasion, we extend our condolences to all of our martyrs from God to their families and to the great Turkish nation, and to our wounded, I wish immediate healing, and to congratulate our beloved nation, the Mevlit Kandili. Happy birthday to you. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0006par0394	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0007par0397	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, 29 of our citizens lost their lives in an attack, including 27. We have 19 critical injuries, and 166 people are currently being treated. We're very sad. My condolences to our dear people and the relatives of the dead. I would also like to point out that this attack was carried out on a Day of Human Rights, and that we consider the right to life especially offensive. We can do our reprimand here for 24 hours, but unfortunately, it doesn't do any good to the missing relatives or relatives. It is now time for us to find a solution by respecting everyone, regardless of the loss of this country, regardless of who it is. We just need to get this country out of a violent spiral of 20 explosions in 2016. Now we have to find a solution together. In a place without democracy, chaos and violence are possible. Peace, democracy, living in peace is something we all deserve from the heart. Political responsibility also requires that you ensure it. I also wish that the prayers of all our citizens, who are from Mevlit Kandili, today, should be for peace and peace to the country. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0008par0404	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I ask for the mercy of God to our policemen and to our civil citizens who lost their lives yesterday as a result of the terrorist attack in Istanbul, and to our wounded. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. As of now, we have 29 martyrs. Of course, our pain is great, but our anger and hatred for terror is just as great. The terrorists who carried out these acts of terror and the forces behind them should know that Turkey will not surrender to terrorism, that terror that activates every low method will not frighten this saint nation. Those who secretly plan behind closed doors, who use terrorism as subcontractors, will be disappointed who think Turkey will be handed over by terror. These acts of terror will not disrupt our unity and unity, but will allow our nation to stick together even more. No matter what terrorist organization is behind it, our government will surely find the terrorists who have committed this treacherous act of terror by mobilising all of its resources. Our government's determination and determination to fight terrorism will never fail. Turkey will continue its fight against terrorism more strongly, with its state, with its nation, with all its power. Don't let anyone doubt it. Every time Turkey takes major steps towards the future, every time it gets stronger, a series of blood-soaked operations are being carried out in Turkey by subcontractors immediately, trying to cut Turkey off. You know, we're always saying that the dark hands were in Turkey, and we're going to break that hand, whether it's out there, or inside, we're going to destroy that hand, whoever's laying his hands on our nation's life and property. I especially address countries that discriminate between terrorist organizations and protect some terrorist organizations: The terror you feed, the disease you raise, will shoot you like a boomerang. As political parties in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, we need to look at this terrorism issue as a political issue.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0009par0408	Finish it, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0008par0409	When it comes to terrorism, when our people, our children, we need to put politics aside and look at it from the perspective of our nation. I, once again, offer my patience and my condolences to our nation, and once again, I would like to point out that I condemn terror. Likewise, here, as political party groups, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I propose that we make a joint statement. In this sense, I think it's important for us to show a common stance against the terrorist organization. In the same way, I wish the Prophet, Mevlit Kandili, which honors the worlds today, to be blessed for both Turkey and the whole Islamic world. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0010par0414	Thank you. Finally, on behalf of the government, I promise Mr. Ismet Yilmaz, our Minister of National Education. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0011par0418	Mr. President, thank you. We curse terror, we condemn terror in the harshest way. We're at a point where words aren't enough. We've lost 29 brothers, martyred them. May God have mercy on our martyrs, and I hope to be patient with your relatives; I wish our wounded a speedy recovery. Terror will never achieve its goal. The aim of terrorism is the unity and stability of our country. Against terror, with patience, we will claim our unity and our receptacle. As you said, transfer from Muhiyi: With a finger, we don't count. We're not exhausted by martyrdom, What do you know, my dear fellow? By asking from our country. They don't know that the more they attack this country, the more they attack this country, the more the people of this country stick together, the more they remember their brotherhood, and the more difficult they get together. On this occasion, I also celebrate the birth of the Prophet, who was sent as a mercy to the people, Mevlit Kandili, and ask him to bring peace and peace to our country and to the world of Islam. May God destroy our nation.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0012par0426	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Ministry of National Education for Central Management in 2015 1) The Board of Higher Education 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2017 is the chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) The Head of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2015 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account 2015 1) Sports General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Higher Education Loans and Homes Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Higher Education Credit and Homes Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2015 Central Management Final Account EPISODE AND KADISTRO GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2015 Members of parliament, as it is known, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must enter the system. Now, we'll begin negotiations on round six. In turn, speakers of Republican People's Party, Justice and Development Party, Peoples' Democratic Party and National Movement Party groups will speak. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the first statement in the sixth round was taken by Antalya MP Mustafa Akadın. Here you are, Mr. Akadun. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is nine minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0013par0465	Mr. President, very dear MPs, the precious Turkish nation who have been watching us on television, with the misfortune of starting such a painful day as the first speaker of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I wish God's mercy to the martyrs we lost in a terrible terrorist attack yesterday, to the great Turkish nation and their fallen families. Dear friends, now that I'm on the political side, I'd like to express my views on the National Ministry of Education budget. In my opinion, the Ministry of National Education is the most important ministry of the Republic of Turkey, and I've always said that it is one of two ministries with its name, the National Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Defense, and I think it should also be carried out by a national policy, so that policy should not be changed for everyday political purposes, political interests. Dear MPs, I'd like to present to you a review at the top of my statement: I don't think the budget should have been made by our Minister of Finance, because in the tradition of democracy in Turkey, there's a saying that I love very much. The word of a politician I love is the food of the nation. Dear friends, therefore the person in charge of this provision is the most important person in charge. In the tradition of the Republic of Turkey, this is the Prime Minister, but I think it would have been better if he had presented the budget according to today's conditions. Dear friends, when you look at the National Ministry of Education budget in terms of quantity, it doesn't look like a bad budget, so you might say it covers 17 per cent of the government's budget; it's a $111 billion budget, along with my higher education. Well, it seems okay, but not when you look at the budget qualitatively. The budget's investment dimensions are approximately 8.5 per cent. In 1998, 30 per cent of the National Ministry of Education budget was earmarked for investments, now 8.5 per cent. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary, how are you going to do with this budget of 80,000 classrooms for the single education asked for in the mid-term economic programme? Because when you look at the level of investment in the budget of responsible directorates, there's $4.2 billion, and I think if you don't invest in anything else for the next five years, there could only be 80,000 classes. So, valuable lawmakers, we can't catch the age with this budget for the Ministry of National Education and this Ministry of National Education culture. And what we couldn't catch was that in the very near past, the famous PISA test results -- it never drops out of the day. Look, what I'm trying to say here is that national education is a long-term process, so some of the political changes that you've made give you fruit 15 years later. You are about to enter the 15th year, more or less, as AKP ruling. We also see from the PISA test results that, according to the 2003 data, we are facing a complete failure of 2016 data. Of course, in this case, you can go out there and say, "Hey, PISA, don't fuck with us like the Tower of Pisa, don't fuck with us!" But I don't think it's the Minister of National Education. Maybe there's an AKP guy who can tell you that. Dear friends, the project of the town is called the 8.2 billion budgeted FATIH Project and its associated EBA Project is a failed project to me. Based on what? I say it based on the reviews of educational scientists, the articles he wrote. It was supposed to end in 2014, and it's not over yet. It is said that it will end at 2018. So far, one third of his budget has been spent. Tablet computers have reached 10 percent of the students and some of the students are selling these tablet computers, and the press is changinating them. So if the EBA section of this system is expressed by our teachers, by our teachers, that 80 percent of the polls are not being used, I think it's a pretty bad situation. Our training is a real sabbatical. In 14 years, our Minister is the 6th Minister of National Education. A power with such a strong chair has changed ministers six times in 14 years, and there have been 12 or 13 significant changes in education. Yesterday was our Minister's birthday, and I congratulate him, and I wish him many happy birthdays. But I'm looking at his political past, three different ministries, and a short historical past in which he served as President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; none more than six months. I wish him six months at the Ministry of National Education -- now he's filling up his 6th month -- more life, dear friends. Now, I'd like to talk briefly about project schools. There are 170 project schools. Why did the project school come out, dear friends who don't know that? We've turned Turkey's best students to colleges into sabbaticals on behalf of the public, and it's not going to be more than 15 percent, but we know that 60 per cent teachers are being expelled today because they've filled eight years. According to our information, students who have not been successful in the examinations have also been torpedoed among the students of these valuable schools. Dear friends, one of the most inconvenient aspects of the Turkish education system is that we are suspended from the secular education system. According to the information I have in Turkey today -- there are 1,200,000 students at imam-hatip high school, and 100,000 students at the seminary. Look, you know what comes out of this? At TÜBITAK's science fair, there are some projects that high school students -- congratulations -- have presented themselves. One project is a project by Antalya Manavgat. There's beans growing in three pots, guys. One of these beans reads Koran to a pot and hymns, one reads loud music, the other in a quiet environment... the bean seedling in the divine flowerpot rises to 33 cm in 22 days. And they're going to celebrate this project with the Director of National Education, the Manavgat Sub-Committee of Time. Friends, it's called superstition; it's called making fun of Islamic religion. So plants have ears so that the plant can detect hymns or loud music or silence? With such a TÜBITAK project on display, Turkish national education is impossible to go anywhere. The amount our dorms address students in higher education is 14 per cent for the state, 1 per cent for the first and secondary school. The policies of peace academics -- which have nothing to do with the State of Emergency -- are a disgrace to the Republic of Turkey. He has been discharged from his duties as over 50 professors. Dear friends, in the final chapter of my words, I'd like to make some brief suggestions. Minister, I have a suggestion for you: I suggested this in my presidency years ago: Please, build a museum of science with a natural history in Turkey. Look, there's only one in every city in Western countries, not one in Turkey. It's roughly a $100 million installation cost for a museum. I think if we train our students in museums like this, we'll be able to achieve much better points in education. Dear lawmakers, we have to deal with the victims' teachers quickly. Right now, as far as I know, there are 42,000 victims with their college professors. I think we should raise the teachers' additional indicators to 3,600, bring tax cuts. I think we should increase our contribution to RD to 2% of the gross. Finally, last week, valuable lawmakers asked a brother of ours, Ebru Tireli, in the town of Targutlu, Manisa, who, as you know, was attacked, a violent attack on brute force and a famous columnist asking a few days ago who did they take the courage from? If you, the Director of National Education in Burdur, commit adultery every day while our women walk the streets with a man who looks at them so much. If you remove a manager from the ward, then the photo of whom the abusers have taken courage from will be very clear. I give you all my love, my respect.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0014par0481	Thank you, Mr. Akaydun. The second statement belongs to the People of the Slap State, the Ancient Durmaz. Here you go, Mr. Durmaz. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0015par0485	Mr. President, our dear nation has pledged on behalf of the Republican People's Party group on the budget of the Ministry of National Education, and I salute you and the Grand Assembly. Unfortunately, we started the day with a pain. I curse the terrorist attack of the evening, and to our fallen security guards and citizens, God's mercy, and to our nation's condolences. Again, I congratulate you on the Mevlit Kandili, of our nation and of the Islamic world. I would like to start my talk with a word from Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, founder of our country, our Great Leader: education is that a nation either lives in a free, independent, glorious, high society or leaves it in captivity and misery. It is only possible in modern education to raise happy people who use their minds with national values, who question, who are creative, sharer, who participate, whose heart is filled with natural and human love, who are happy with peace. Therefore, education is the basis of both the republic and our democracy. Unfortunately, these fundamental elements of the republic and democracy are destroyed by the wrong policies followed by power, while our country expects us to raise a free, free, conscience, free generation of wisdom. The principles, such as science, modernity, nationalism, neutrality, and objectiveness, established by the National Education Basic Law, and considered universal values, have been set aside to make education a service to a specific ideology. Let's take a look at what happened in 14 years. In 14 years, 6 National Education Minister has changed in AKP governments, while with each changing minister, a new test system has become an exercise in education. During your rule, you made 17 basic changes, including curriculum, content, program, exam system. Children are amazed at what exams they will get used to, what teachers will teach. With 400,000 teachers in our country who could not be appointed, you introduced Turkey to concepts such as oral teaching, or paying teaching. In 2005, you took upper secondary school education into four years and gave it the right to cross-schools by adding it to the first name of upper secondary schools. Why did you do this? We don't know what we won. With great emptiness, instability, inconclusive, unpredictable training practices continued rapidly. In these processes, you continued to change test systems: LGS, OKS, SBS, SSS, SOS and TEOG. Then another reason for the situation that we've come to today in training came a new radical 4+4+4 system. You're confused, aren't you? Dear MPs, while we're doing this, our budget for education has increased. You're bragging about it. If our teachers who owe 95% are forced to sell lemons in the market, if our children, whom we call the future, are forced to go to community dorms, our children are on fire in these unregistered dorms, and someone comes out and says, "We have to think a lot." If 14 per cent of the 6-18-year-old mandatory education age cannot go to school, and about 1 million of these are girls; if teachers, academics, are being deposed in accordance with the laws of the law; if the basic stone of national education is being destroyed, if the secular inspectors of secularism are still being able to understand our importance, if the government has set aside only one hundred and forty titles from its middle-term plan to national education; if our children are reduced to 10 years of drug age; if our teachers commit suicide due to test anxiety, unemployment; if we still fail to finish the study in our country; if we fail to understand the importance of secularism and abuse of politics, then it is your country's a crime, and it is also a crime of our country. Dear lawmakers, the latest report from PISA (PISA) clearly shows the collapse of education, which has become religious, commercialising, commercializing, and changing into a sabbatical board, which has been imposed on the education by 4+4+4+4. Turkey has fallen to the 49th ranking in PlSA 2015, 52nd in science, 48th in mathematics, and 49th in reading skills. So our children come from three years behind the children in Europe. Again, Turkey fell behind 2003 in education. You can't be too proud of your work. Singapore is the most successful country in PISA research. What do you think is the main reason for this success? Singapore is successful because since the 1960s, scientific, modern education has been determined and continued as a national policy. That is the basis of his economy and development. Their formula for success, stability, unfortunately, is the main reason for our failure. In this ministry, which has the word "national" in its name, we have to achieve absolute success with its opposition, with its civil society, with its common understanding, and it falls to the government. Dear lawmakers, the matter of religiousization in education is one of the biggest problems. It is the national education system today that has given our children into the hands of the congregations that has been carried out by religion, converting education into a non-scientific state. Again, another aspect of religious education is the sad foundation. He set up a foundation called the Maarif Foundation, to re-organise the education system through the ruling foundation, to operate abroad and abroad. The president of the foundation also determines his salary, even further, and in violation of the Constitution, transfers certain tasks of the Ministry of National Education to this foundation. The foundation has the authority to raise funds, but no audits, no taxes. In this open road, TÜRGEV, Ensar, and so on, the foundations continue at full speed with the government's contribution. Dear lawmakers, Article 4 of the National Education Basic Law is: education institutions are open to everyone, regardless of language, race, gender and religion. No person, family, community, or class can be granted privileges in education, but the Constitution says that in basic areas such as public service, such as health, inequalities have been created. The rich spend $65 of their $100 on the education of their child; the poor can only spend $2 on education. This is contrary to the principle of equality in our Constitution. Dear MPs, the National Ministry of Education budget has been set at $85.5 billion for 2017. Unfortunately, this budget is only 3.54 percent of the national income. The national education budget's national income rate is also far below the OECD average. When the AKP came to power, the budget for education from the Ministry of National Education budget in 2002 was 17.8, while the percentage was reduced to 8.51, as of 2017. The stake in investments from the Ministry of National Education budget has shown a constant trend in reducing the AKP's rule, which feeds on lack of education. In 14 years, private schools have been constantly supported, and public schools have been left to their own problems. Parts of education investments and these wrong policies reveal AKP's real education ideology. Dear lawmakers, the criteria for success in education are absolute report cards. If Turkey is ranked last in education with countries such as the United Arab Emirates, Chile, Albania, Mexico, the latest in reading, the AKP's report card is without question in health, economy, environment, art, social security, social security, social rights, and education; you have failed; you have failed! Dear lawmakers, I end my speech in the words of the late Turkan Saylan, who dedicated his life to the education of our country's children: "If somewhere a child hungry for science, democracy, peace, light waits for your light, you have no right to go out. You will shine, even if you are seconds away from death. He says, "I salute the great assembly."
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0016par0499	Thank you, Mr. Durmaz. The third statement belongs to Lord Ceyhun Ýrgil. Mr. Irgil, come in. Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0017par0503	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we actually did a deep analysis and study of the National Ministry of Education and the NGO budget, and we were going to share it, but last night we had to change our agenda because of the pain that we experienced in the process of connecting Human Rights Day to the candle and because of our martyrs, and because of the fact that we had to cancel almost all of our talk. We will now give further details of our statement about the ECHR in the press statement this week. I've changed my mind a little bit about what the results of the PISA are actually related to terrorism, as our speakers and our next speakers will focus on. Why do we question PlSA, and why do we want individuals who analyze, who can distinguish between right and wrong with their own mind to grow up, and why is education so important? So that the children don't fall for the law, so that they don't get a gun in their hands, so that they don't get a bomb in their trunks, they don't join terrorist organizations. It hurts in the end before the minds of those who pledge, who worship, who are toe-to-toe. If you raise individuals without interrogation or analysis, they'll go to a cult and go to a terrorist organization. For the past 14 years, these children have seen no power but you; the result is clear. The Ministry of Interior has a statement on how to protect young people from terrorist organisations, talks about scholarships and aid for poor children. That's why we're telling these kids not to be forced into some uncontrollable foundation or association. That's why we say the government should take education to the villages, increase housing opportunities. That's why education is important, so the PISA results are important. We will not find peace in this country until we have restored the education system and established peace, justice and law. Why are the PISA results so important? Because we can't question it, we're moving on with individuals who can't question it. There are universal values that we can't solve with Hamasi reflexes. The country's on fire. No peace, no law, no justice, no peace, no social compromise. Turkey's Grand National Assembly has been bombed. Hundreds of martyrs, thousands wounded in the coup attempt, thousands of dead, painful tears in 20 bombings. We should sit down and question it. Doesn't politics have any responsibility? Where in the world does anyone take responsibility for all the terrible things that happen? There is no more disaster, no more tragedy, no more corruption, no more humiliation, no more lawlessness that will surprise us. It's a sociological and psychological fatigue syndrome. No matter what happens, it's not people who are questioning, trying to understand, it's fans now. It's a big problem. In this polarization climate, it's hard to be a salve to wounds. The people of the land no longer share in pain, sorrow, and joy. The fundamental cause of this unloved, disrespectful, intolerant, low-level climate is lack of education, and unfortunately, we are politicians. The country is on fire, the kids are on fire, our people are breaking apart, our geography is bleeding out, 500,000 people have been exposed to immigration, and we have 3 million refugees on the verge of an economic crisis, we're fighting everyone in one country, we're fighting everyone. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey only cares about the presidential system for one man. We have to get past this climate. It's a scary way to go. We're not dealing with a combination, we're dealing with a divider. Maybe you'll bring the one man, the presidential system, but we'll already divide the country in two, part of us happy, part of us worried. In recent years, I've been saying that the country is suffering from psychosis. Look, in the papers today, many have not brought up pain and disaster, but the presidential system and the Constitutional amendment. Is that the respect of martyrs, the sensitivity, the unity of pain and sorrow? What about the Ankara Mayor's statement after the explosion? What did the president say? That's exactly what I'm reading: in the explosion, the President, it's because the ministers are not targets, that we are in the care of God. In any case, it's shameful, disrespectful to the families of martyrs, disrespectful to the families of people who died. Shouldn't the dead people at least be in the government's care? It's also a confession. Does that mean that God protects power, but can't protect the people of the state? Today, all of us will make a statement; from Twitter, from Facebook, from Facebook; you will say, "Our pain is great." You will say, "We hate." We say, "We curse." We will say, "We will not forget." But as we have done before, tomorrow life will continue, we will forget; only mothers, fathers, relatives, loved ones will remember. It's the truth. In 2015, we lost 149 people in four explosions, 308 people in 12 explosions in 2016, more than 7,000 martyrs in the last 30 years, over 500 martyrs in the last year; wounded, veteran thousands; all forgotten. All that remains is anger and hatred and growing anger and hatred. This is an environment that will increase violence, death. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a historic responsibility, my friends. It's not our job to make peace, it's ours to establish peace. On this occasion, again, with the honor of the High Assembly, I salute you with love. There's a lot to say, but unfortunately, now we're at the end of the line. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0018par0513	Thank you, Mr. Irgil. The fourth statement belongs to Eskişehir MP Gaye Beceer. Here you go, Mr. Niceer. Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0019par0517	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you with love and respect. We all woke up to the pain today. I think it's very important that Mevlit Kandili take place today. I wish our country peace and quiet. We woke up to the pain, a really big terrorist attack. The numbers may not matter, but we're talking about a result of 39 dead, 155 wounded. I wish God's mercy for what we have lost, and a healing for the wounded. But even being injured means half the people with no arms, no legs, no eyes, and I think you should remember that, too. 2015 was the year of terror launched in the name of stability, 2015 was the year of stability, and 2016 was the year of terror, the year of pain was 2016. Come, all together, let's question quietly from within and say why, why. I was going to speak today on behalf of the P.S.M. budget, but I said, let's not say, let's call it P.S.O.A., but let's say it's the center of determining the student's destiny. I looked at 2017 budget presentations, 174 and 1777, and I wanted to read it again, and it didn't even go through the 3 pages once. Yes, of course feedback is important in education. What are we measuring? We're going to measure the result of our training in the student. What are we measuring? We're going to measure our educational system. If there is inequality in a country, if there is poverty in a country, if there is desperation in a country, what are we measuring with a bag of tests, who are we measuring, and who are we answering? There are more than 150 trials conducted by the SNS. In fact, in our country, measuring and evaluations are used only for elimination and selection. What is the validity of multiple choice general exams, and what is its credibility, for the purposes of elimination and selection? The elimination and elimination process actually reminds us a lot about the entry control of a factory, whereas it's about our children, our young people, and it's about our next generation. So I want to ask you, what do we eliminate, why do we eliminate, and what do we get? The Ministry of National Education is tired of reform. The Ministry of National Education is still talking about better, and the Ministry of National Education is still trying to show the full side of the glass, but it's got its own note, it's got its own report card, it's full of weak people. I'd like to ask all of you what this ministry with 14 years of history is going to measure. Look at international exams, PISA and TIMSS results. Both are under the permission of the Ministry of National Education, both under the control of the Ministry of National Education and the results of these tests, the Ministry of National Education is in a state of complete knockout. Look at PISA 2015: 72 countries are a test of more than 500,000 students. I'd like to ask Turkey why 61 cities -- not 81 provinces -- 189 schools, 5,871 sample students. Our turn is 50 between 72 countries. Our turn is 34 between 35 OECD countries. Every year we're one of the strongest countries to bring down the OECD average. To say that even Finland dropped 11 points this year when we should have questioned ourselves is to mock our minds, Mr. Secretary. Then let us all rejoice that we are the 50th. Why? Because there are 20 countries behind us, let us rejoice together, that there are 20 countries behind us, and that we have become 50. The results of the international examination are, in fact, a sign of many problems in the countries. What's all this? The effective and efficient management of public institutions, expertise, economic development, exports, dollar currencies and the fight against terrorism are either based on education or there is none. And that's what we call the age of knowledge, the community of knowledge and so on, that's what it's really all about. The PISA exams also show that there is a right proportion between education scores and countries' national incomes. When we look at the top Germany and Korea at PISA, we see that the income per capita exceeds $30,000. In Turkey, income per person is under $10,000; the interaction is very clear. And there is a direct correlation between these exams and the places of the countries in law. When we look at the Law State Index in the world, such as the ranking in these exams, we see that we are the 99th place among the countries in the rule of law in 2016. And now I ask the High Council, could this be a game of global power? The world actually reads their countries by looking at these reports. Global forces don't look at votes, paints and pulp, fortunately. And, members of lawmakers, international exams, ratings agencies, United Nations indexes, we don't give a damn, we take care of the nation. We are one of the 20 great economies of the world. We cannot solve the problems of this country, of this nation. You don't need an atomic bomb or long-range weapons to destroy a country, just lower the quality of education. And as I finish my words, I want to talk about two birds, peacocks and geese that are often mentioned in the science of condescension. Please remember that you forgot to walk like a peacock, a goose, and a goose. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0020par0529	Thank you, Mr. Niceer. In turn, it belongs to Aydın MP Metin Lütfi Baydar. Mr. Baydar, come in. Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0021par0533	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as a result of this treacherous terrorist attack in Dolmabahçe, Istanbul last night, I wish God's mercy to our police and citizens who lost their lives on this blessed day, and to their relatives, and to all Turkey, their condolences, and to our wounded. Turkey has had propaganda that over the years the largest share of the budget has been divided into education, but the amount of public education per student in Turkey is far below the OECD average. The average of OECD countries is 3 times higher than Turkey in primary school, 4 times higher in secondary school, 2.8 stories in high school, and about 2 times higher in higher education. Turkey, which is the last in all education levels in OECD countries, is the last in the final by 81 dollars from its closest rival at the secondary school level. Now let's look at the quality criteria you've created in education as a government, Mr. Secretary. Sadly, our reading habits are almost the same as Africa's tribal states. For example, as Germany reads twenty-six minutes a day per person, recent research has made it a serious problem for the country that it dropped to twenty-three minutes, and a motion has been made to investigate the German education minister. So, how many minutes a day do you think Turkey reads per person? Our situation is pathetic, Mr. Secretary. Turkey reads on average one minute a day, you didn't hear wrong, watching TV for one minute and six hours. However, Mr. Secretary can go on television and say that our education is good. Dear lawmakers, our total higher education budget is 25.6 billion Turkish dollars -- $7.5 billion -- 1 percent of $750 billion in national income. Well, let's see how this $7.5 billion was distributed to 108 public universities: 1/3 of the budget is divided between major universities. The average budget for the second 10 universities is $440 million per university. For the last 28 universities, there is only a budget for less than 100 million Turkish liras. When the lion's share of the budget is divided into major universities, it's impossible to talk about inter-university equality. University budgets need to be reviewed with a new sense of performance that encourages higher licenses, quality and patents, and new universities to be supported with a separate development fund. Unfortunately, there is no financial autonomy in our universities. Colleges can't generate self-inflicted income. Only 2 billion Turkish liras of 25.6 billion Turkish liras are self-inflicted. The universities have no idea what the agenda is. How should colleges be? Even the question is, however you see fit, sir. They were made to be called. It's just, for obvious reasons, they put a message of reprimand on July 15th. Other than that, when you look at it, you'll see that colleges don't have anything to say about the agenda on their website. With foreign programs, graduates must be supported and improved. Applications and project-oriented studies must be introduced. The doctoral thesis must be provided with a project support. In the United States, the number of PhDs in 2015 exceeds 55,000 in Turkey, and only 5 in Turkey. How can this difference be explained? The fact that only 75,000 of the 150,000 academic staff have PhDs is also a remarkable point. Our annual Ph.D.A. should be at 10,000 percent, so Turkey can maintain its competitive position and claim in the region. In order for the number of doctors to match Turkey's goals, 100,000 people must be expected in the short term, and this increase should be seen as vital to Turkey. Mr. Secretary, what are you doing about this? That's what we'd like to hear in your explanations. Let's take a look at higher education with examples of the world. For example, compare Turkey, France and the United States in higher education. France decided to give up the amps taught by great professors who were the basis of the French university system and submit them online. They also say that the decision was delayed by the French Minister of Higher Education. The importance of the license ring of the French higher education process is becoming less and less important. The license was reduced to three years first, and then class classes started online. Because they realized that the university's bachelor stage wasn't from the professional process, so they went to adult education. In the United States, the bachelor's stage is still four years old, because high schools here are worse than in France. And yet, here, the license phase is devoid of importance. For example, Harvard is a Harvard graduate study. Turkey still thinks of a four-year bachelor's phase when it comes to university. I'm afraid it's not an education that's still being considered for grad school and doctorate. So what does it take to achieve the quality of developed countries in higher education? I'm confident that the issues of topics such as shifting private and public resources from the license phases, speeding up the licensing process, making courses into Internet courses in the undergraduate stages, sending our intelligent children abroad, if necessary, to provide qualified foreign teacher employment, will be significant steps to address the problem. I think we should quickly review our education policy by taking it out of politics in front of the table that we clearly put on the table here. If we don't do this, we're going to have a social breakdown. If they're going to suffer this kind of collapse, this kind of collapse, there's no doubt it's going to be the Minister and the Government first. We would like to do this duty to warn the Minister and especially the National Board of Education and the universities to be final. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0022par0544	Thank you, Mr. Baydar. İstanbul MP Erdogan Ürtük is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Land. Your time is nine minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0023par0548	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, first of all, we condemn and condemn terror as the Republican People's Party of war in Beşiktas. 38 of our citizens have lost their lives. Terror is violence, wherever it comes from, it's violence that kills people. We have always said to the ruling party: "We are prepared to give all the support we can as Republican People's Party to solve terrorism in this country. In 2013, Mr. Kilicdaroglu went to Prime Minister Erdoğan at the time and said, "If the solution to terrorism cost me my seat, I am willing to give you all the support I can to eliminate this terror." He said. But the Prime Minister of that day said, "Ya, you are in need of him, let go, I don't need your support." My dear friends, in Turkey's major problems, there is no division of power and opposition; this issue is resolved without a division of power-mutation. But, instead of us, where did the power of that time come from? Flights were made from Kandil to Imralı. And it's solved? It's not solved. In 2002, when power took over this country today, we had seven martyrs, but today we have hundreds, thousands of martyrs. It's a shame about this country. We want to support you because this country is all of us. We love our country as the Republican People's Party, and we're willing to give all we can to help the country survive this terror. Today, Turkey struggles with three terrorist organizations, with only one terrorist group in 2002. I wonder what's underlying it. The bottom line is the wrong policy of the government that governs this country, I did it, I did it. It's a policy that rejects common intelligence, it's a policy of power-Muslim discrimination. Look, if you asked for our support as the Republican People's Party... which we support in all matters, I don't remember what law the AKP government has passed in this Parliament for 15 years. But you hired Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) for us, you set up mobile courts for Habur, you made Oslo talks, what happened? The terrorist organization has settled in cities, and today there are hundreds of martyrs. Then what happened? My dear friends, there was a coup attempt on July 15th, the second terrorist organization... The first is PKK, the second is ISIS, the third is ISIS. So, what happened after that? On July 15, the terrorist organization struck this country. How did he do it? He first trained his staff in the dorms of this country, in his schools, and then bombed the Parliament of this country. Today, about this terrorist organization, we told you that we are ready to give you support. On July 15th, we stood next to you and supported you in the beatdown rally, but then, behind closed doors, you made decrees in the law order, you brought it to Parliament, you used it as a notary, you destroyed a common mind, you destroyed an important party like the main opposition party, and you pushed it to the main opposition party, and you brought something else first. What are you bringing? You're bringing the Constitution. Friends, after that, 600 MPs to Parliament... What, is the Constitution the priority of this country, for God's sake? Is the presidency the priority of this country? The priority of this country is common sense, common mind. A structure that rejects the common mind cannot succeed in this country. You have closed 15 universities of the PKK's terrorist organization there. Dear friends, 14 of the 15 universities were opened during this period of power. So if you had listened to us, if we had made common sense, 14 of the 15 universities would not have opened during this period of power. You transferred the dorms to them. Look, the government has a total of 682. What, though, is the number of dorms available to congregations or different sections? 4.782, which is the government, but 10 percent of its poor children have been taken care of. Who did he hand over the others to? He delivered it elsewhere. Its dorms are nearly twice as big as our dorms, the government's dormitories. My dear friends, this is how we delivered our children to them. Then, they were brainwashed, bombed the Parliament of this country. As for the third terrorist organization, ISIS. Dear friends, I would like to ask Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. President, and I would like to say that whoever lured Turkey into the swamp of Syria, who gave the idea to the government that day, who made the decision to do so, did not think for the good of this country, who betrayed this country. Grab hold of that person, they lured Turkey into that swamp. It's the power that created a structure like three terrorist organizations, but you still refuse to dominate the common mind. Instead of meeting with the main opposition, you go and talk to terrorist organizations; that's not true. As for the budget, I'm out of time, and I told the members of the group, that's all there is to it. - As for the budget, this budget is completely bankrupt. When this budget came to the Plan and Budget Commission on October 14th, account to all institutions for 3,000 liras. According to it, it was foreign debt, economics, gas purchase, oil purchase... how much is it today? $3,500. How much for the detour? Fourteen percent. What's the rate of growth? 3.1. Once 2017, the plans are over, your budget is bankrupt; there is no budget. You've lost 2018. Don't fool anyone. And I don't need to say anything about the budget. I'm gonna skip the gym. Mr. Secretary, I congratulate you on the fine work you've done on doping, but I don't think it's right to have a person brought in and sentenced to 20 months of doping as president of the Basketball Federation. I mean, you took all the good work you did and threw it away. Yeah, this guy's gonna set an example.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0024par0560	You can't help it.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0023par0561	Why did you assign a man who was sentenced to 20 months of doping? The former president would continue for another year. The old president's...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0024par0562	It's not in the Minister's hands, it's not in the Minister's hands.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0023par0563	If you infect sports with politics, there's no success. Is it a success? No.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0025par0564	It's not the Minister's fault, it's the President's, what should he do?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0023par0565	Look at the Olympics: 80 million in Turkey, with a single medal. Look, constantly, steadily -- look at the years -- 1 gold medal, 1 gold medal, 1 gold medal -- I mean, is it possible for Turkey to succeed with this? In 2004... you took over three gold medals in the last period when the governments handed over to you. Stability: 2008, Beijing, 1 medal; London, 1 medal; Rio, 1 medal. Then, in 2012, I was very proud when I received a thousand experts, and I was very happy; but, you know, maybe the number of medals will go up, and our young people will be more inclined to sports... friends, again 1 medal in 2016. Why? You didn't pull the strings, you pulled strings. Enough, friends; Turkey is sinking, Turkey is going to a bad place. This country belongs to all of us. You all have responsibilities to this country, so let's stop thinking in partisans. The period of prevailing common mind, the period of ruling love, is not the time of growing power in one person. Turkey is rapidly losing altitude. If this ship goes down, we all go down. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0026par0569	Thank you, Mr. Earth.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0027par0570	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0026par0571	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0027par0572	We don't accept the allegations that the Hatibi has made from the stand, for one thing, we deny them.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0026par0573	Dear Earth, you're welcome.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0028par0574	I have a say in this, don't I, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0026par0575	Okay, I'll call you if I can.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0029par0576	The AK PARTY has never hired anyone other than our nation, and I'm saying that the commitment and determination of the EC PARTY governments at the point of terror is also evident. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0030par0578	Then what is it?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0031par0579	No teasing, Mr. Earth, you may sit down. Istanbul MP Gamze Akkuş Ilgezdi is in charge. Here you are, Mr. Whitebird Illustration. Your time has been seven minutes, please complete in seven minutes, no extensions.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0032par0583	Mr. President, dear MPs, I curse yesterday's terrorist attack in Istanbul and ask for God's mercy on our martyrs. I made a promise on the loan and housing budget. I'd like to start by underlineing a fact. The budget you have brought, not the interest budget, but the service budget. Unfortunately, it's not the public budget, because the workers who are exploited under the name of flexible labor have no expectations of this budget. There is no sign of social government in this budget; there is not a single pen that guarantees the future of pensioner, officer, student, unemployed. This budget has no woman's name, no hope of youth, no future for children. This budget has no secular education, no free health care, no transparency, no accountability, no democracy, no justice, no sharing. Now, let's talk about what's in this budget that's playing for nothing, that's causing misery to the people under the name of interstitarians. Valuable representatives, the public is at the heart of this budget, which has no right to focus on, the presidential system, which has to be changed by the Constitution, has to be desired to change the regime. Today, when we have a lot of problems from justice to security, from education to health, what a contradiction. Look at this picture. This photo is the most painful face in other Turkey. We don't have four kids here anymore. That's how our young lost in Aladağ two years ago. Remember what Rifat Ilgaz said: ▪ Neither of the young nor of the children I don't have a complaint. The boy is in the mazbut. If it's home, you can see it. Roses and roses... But the roses have many thorns! Yes, just yesterday, you breathe because of us. The helpless children of parents who were disciplined by poverty were burned before our eyes. Our future burned down, our hearts burned down, but the cults and parish homes were blind to their eyes, and their hearts stood still. After the fire, one of the house managers came out, and the burning of our daughters in the country was God's will, and they were martyrs. He said, "There has been another massacre, which has come without prejudice in sight." Fitrate, futrate, futrate... what is that? Remember the Karaman, the harassment, the rapist, the hermit; the Soma, the mine cave-ins; the Aladağ, the fireson; remember the bombs that exploded, the drum of terror; our women who were killed every day, the hermit; our workers who died for a loaf of bread. So it seems that the AKP's power for us is out of control. You've brought our people to the brink of madness, calling everything a hermit. When the goal was to transform the country, to change the system, we saw that human life didn't matter to you. When you say, "It's a mistake where there is a man." You covered it all up, and you covered it up. Dear MPs, according to the Ministry's dorm regulations, the first eight years of basic education are the only and only state's authority to open a home. We've warned you about this many times. You, however, have violated the Constitution by allowing the illegal homes of the sects and congregations. You've opened the way to these dorms where, instead of the bright future of the republic, you've taken the state from public services in education and teaching, the fatalism of the idea of the community has been instilled. That's right. The more children become poor, the more ignorant, the more desperate you become, the easier you transform society. This is why you condemned our children to cults and congregations by restricting their rights to free and qualified education. It was not enough, but you made a covenant between them. Not enough, you've changed the education system 13 times in 14 years. I wish you had a good education. You wanted to create an apolytic, aberrant, intellectual generation because it was a generation of you who would pledge to you without question, without question. The result is obvious. As for my higher education, we raise the bar of education. You said, "You've opened new universities like mushrooms. Now I'm asking you: in 14 years when you've been building all these unnecessary roads, bridges, constructions, why haven't you solved the housing problem of our young, our future? It's a pity that only 10 percent of every 100 people have the chance to live in the state dorms where you've turned them into student warehouses with our children that you've hoarded over and over. Another problem is the scholarships. It's harder to take advantage of unrequited scholarships than to hit 6 ▪ in the digital lottery. And when that happens, our helpless young people who can't solve the housing problem have to reconnect with the structures of these dorms that have found a place to organize themselves. In fact, if you don't have the money, if you don't have the money, you can decide your fate. After July 15th, you took pride in confiscating 823 homes belonging to the family; you were right, thank you. But how will you explain to our people that there are only 656 government dorms? By the way, you've brought about 600 associations and a tax exemption to the foundation. Now you've stated that you're going to help some of these associations and foundations by the state for housing and nutritional costs. I wonder if Modern Life will get its share, the Haci Bektas Foundation, the LSSEV, the Inöne Foundation will get its share, or will you help the institutions that are your allies? How fair you'll be, we'll see. On another subject, you signed a protocol with the Diet in February, and you said we would train to develop national and spiritual values. You set up spiritual stations. So, have we grown up with millions of public schools, national and spiritual values, and this is what we need? What's the point? To build new values that serve your own purpose by removing the Law of Tevhid-i Tedrisat, just as you have actually eliminated other revolutionary laws? What in God's name is wrong with your secular education and your children?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0033par0600	Listen, what's your problem with religion? What is your problem with religion and religion?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0032par0601	Now, when it's so complicated and so dark, I wonder how we're going to raise a nation of strong, spiritual young people. Number two: I wonder how you're going to make the millions you left homeless in your own homes patriotic. Three, you allowed the rape, the death, to be delivered to the parish, to the cult. I wonder how you'll account for it.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0034par0604	Today is the birthday of the Prophet, Mevlit Kandili, listen, what is your problem with religion?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0032par0605	Remember, Grand Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is not the home of the sheiks, dervishes, disciples, lunatics of the Republic of Turkey. The truest, most genuine cult is a cult of civilization. Those who do not take their words as guides are doomed to lose. I say no to this budget, which does not defend the interests of the people, nor protect the young, nor the workers, and salute the high council.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0035par0606	Thank you. İstanbul MP Gülay Bakçı is the first to take the stand. Mr. Backup, please. Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0036par0610	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the High Council with respect and love. I pray for God's mercy to our citizens who were killed in the explosion in Istanbul last night, to our fallen police, to the wounded, to the wounded, and to the poor, and to the terror, and to the nation's head. Think of a country, valued lawmakers, economy is falling; bombs are exploding all over the country, heroes like mountains are martyrs; corruption, bribes are taking place in almost every institution; people everywhere are nervous; we have carried out some cities as they were; youth is hopeless, our people are unemployed; our women, our children are not protected from perverts; and our government is constantly deceived. Again, you're looking for a whim, so let's warn you again, someone may be deceiving you. Who's to say that the house was destroyed because there was a row of husband and wife because someone was making a fuss in the house? We're gonna take care of Congress, the parliamentary system, we're gonna take care of it, and you're gonna have to take care of it. Mr. President, in the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism budget, we expected to have a city identity, quality building stock, technology in the service of man, carbon emissions, zero structures, decontamination of gray water, human and neighbourly relations, a vision for the disabled, children, and a sense of a city! One night you passed an arrangement with a bag of laws from the House, the famous article 80, do you remember what came with it to our country? You're able to attract treasured land to subsidiary firms for free. You're not looking for an environmental impact assessment report, an E.D.A. report. They're exempted from customs tax, stop tax, insurance premiums, so they can plunder nature more easily, and you provide energy support. Forests, meras, coasts, agricultural areas, areas with historical and cultural assets can be project-based investment sites. Give up these laws that metabolize nature and pave the way for capital. Some companies have a private, exclusive zoning plan; think about Istanbul, think about Ankara, there's a five-story building, 55-story building next to it. In our country where the North Forests are destroyed, where people can't breathe, where cyanide and gold are being searched, the third bridge is being built, the third airport is being built over the forest; the thermal plants, nuclear power plants must stop immediately. Water and environmental problems must be solved. Our country's worker, pensioner, teacher, student, tradesman, housewife and minimum wager have economic problems, and we see you're thinking about dealing with them by selling natural, historical values. Well, we're asking: what if there's nothing left to sell, then what are you going to do? Over the last five years, as much as 130,000 football fields have been lost under the name "Tahtassis." In the last decade, 400,000 mining licenses have been issued, unfortunately Turkey has no environmental policy. The mind that is trying to legalize the sapling of the trees he cut down today is unaware of the habitat created by a tree. It gives high-rent urban centers to subsidiary firms with the hands of TOKI, and sometimes publicisation, quickly nationalizes. For example, in Gaziosmanpaşa in the urban transformation, a citizen won the case, the Ministry changed the law, and then presented it shamelessly, he said: "We have removed the legal barrier to urban transformation in Gaziosmanpaşa." We have a suggestion about the TOKI. TOKI builds so many dwellings, at least 10 per cent of the dwelling she has built; for preschool education, for all our children, for the disabled. Do not build box-box buildings like your shoeboxes; make ecological, environmentally sensitive buildings that provide for people's future needs; create breathing physical environments. If you are saying that the TOTOKI can't do it, let the president of Tokyo sit in his house, triple his salary, as long as our cities don't get slaughtered any more. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, who is the government? What is the government? Is it the one who owns green, nature, or the one who plunders? Is he who destroys our plateaus with Green Road projects, or is he who thinks of the benefit of the nation? Or is it he who condemns children to rape and burn to death in congregation homes? Who is it, what is the government? On the same day you opened a house in Aladağ, for six million liras, and did not open a house for the children. You know we've got both hands on you. Why are you making these budgets, who are you doing them for, why is this government here? We face all these plunders in Istanbul and Turkey. We need energy. We're against the fact that you're killing our people with cancer. In France, the Minister of Environment is making a statement, saying that I will travel 1,000 kilometers, and in the coming period, I will lay out batteries, which will satisfy our energy needs. Our Minister of Environment is making a statement, he says: I'm going to open the way for the capital, and the beaches are ours, and I'm going to let them build there. That's the difference. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we talk about child rapes, we talk about dead children, we talk about burning children; can we talk about science about children, art? There are 23 million children in our country, with no place to play 6 square feet. Under the occupation of market value, we invite our communities, our memories, our habitats, all the public areas that are being taken away from us, for Haydarpaşa, for Halic, for Travel Park, for our eighteen men in the invasion of Greece, for our cultural values, for our forests, for our water basins, for our agriculture land and for our communities, for our three trees, for our neighborhoods that are being destroyed, for their right to live, for their right to live, for their right to live, for their right to live, for every ideology, for every political view of every ideology. We call this budget no, of course, with an economic understanding that has been transformed into a huge shopping mall that prioritizes consumption and consumerism. Which one should I count? Our nature, our history, and our culture that you have slaughtered is clear. This is exactly the way history and cultural hostility are done for authority and rant love in the expression of Ecdat. They'll ask him tomorrow if he'll sell his human homeland, as the poet said. / You drank the water and ate the bread. / Is there anything saintly in the world? / Gentlemen, how did you take this country? The day comes when you're turned around, and the day when you're paid your dues. You'll be asked one day at a time. / Gentlemen, how did you take this country? We say a habitable Turkey is possible, we put our lives on the line to make this life possible, and we invite you. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0037par0627	Thank you. Now on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the final speaker was Vice President Vecdi Gündoğ. Here you go, Mr. Gündüz. Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0038par0631	Mr. President, lawmakers, violence again, terror again, this time Istanbul again. I pray for God's mercy to our martyrs, to heal our wounded, to our nation's head. The greatest danger that awaits the world and its living creatures today is environmental problems, the product of the brutal capitalist production system, that drive all creatures to the brink of premature death. Unplanned and distorted industrialization, created by a system that is unsustainable, unappreciated from the understanding of sustainable development. Today, on average, 12 million children die every year from air pollution. 1.2 billion people live without clean drinking water. In the 40s, in Ergene, in the mountains of Istranca, in the forest of the logoz, life is running out every day. In the glorious geography of our country and of our cyclare, a new project perpetuates the hearts of our citizens every day, as well as the breaking facilities, cement factories, marble, stone, gravel pits. The drinking and use of water in dozens of villages of our villages, Kırklareli central, Lüleburgaz Babaeski and Pehlivanköy, now threatens life. Ergene, whom you have failed to clean for 14 years, has been a disgrace to all AKP Environment Ministers who have served for 14 years. That disgrace continues to flow today from Ergene. As if all these natural massacres weren't enough, now you're making plans for the thermal power plant lobby in our county of Visa and Circeçeköy, where there are subterranean water sources determined to be agricultural and forest land. The materials from thermal plants are polluting the air in the form of acid rain, affecting soil and water, destroying natural vegetation and forests, unfortunately. Members of parliament, among the UN's 2030 Sustainable Development Goals are primarily the end of poverty and hunger. Agricultural production is also considered the main requirement for the end of hunger and for food security. We have recently been threatened by coal-based energy policies, as well as the future of our fertile land and agriculture. 2.4 million hectares of farmland have been lost in our country in the last 13 years. This figure corresponds to about 10 per cent of the agricultural land in Turkey. Despite this warning and all that's happened, there's still a lot of insistence on thermal power plants, known for their environmental and human health damage, because of the protection of energy lobby interests. Tomorrow, God forbid, the energy lobbys have deceived us as a result of an irreparable environmental disaster. Congressmans, I'd like to remind you and warn you that when you do, you leave a mark on life or work. You AKP staff, with everything he's done, add a new layer of work to the clouds above our country. Today, when the Ministry of Environment budget is being discussed, we ask for our most natural right to live - clean water, fresh air, and clean soil. Take care of the environment, life, and the future of our children. We cry out to you. Who are we yelling at? To AKP teams who have been trying to run the country alone for 14 years. For 14 years, it's the staff that haven't saved the country from the sinking of terror, blood and tears. These are AKP staffs that support the siege of the state's institutions and institutions by members of the CHP, who are left standing by, guarding, watching. These are AKP staffs who have delivered the economy to the interest lobby -- 5,874,000 unemployed, 16 million, 700,000 poor -- who have driven the country into debt. These are the ones who can't protect our land and our soldiers, taken in the blood of Mehmetchik, in Northern Cyprus, who can't take care of the islands in the Aegean Sea. These are the essential forces of democracy, who have broken the principle of separation and violated the Constitution. It is those who try to build a special dress, and try to sell it to our people, that there is no separation of forces, balance, and braking mechanisms, that binds all authority to one person, and that makes it so that it is called democracy, stability. We will finish the tears of the mothers. The AKP staff, who have made their tears flood with tears, making our children, relatives, millions of mothers and sisters who will come to our sister's door every day and sleepless nights with the anxiety of the painful news. These are AKP staffs who are tired of being deceived inside and outside, who have disgraced the country's reputation, created a lonely, unstable country. Members of lawmakers, we no longer ask such dark backgrounds, confidence in deception, and the disreputable staff to protect the environment, the life and the future. All we ask of you is that you leave, and go away, and let these people not sleep in fear of being deceived again. Go forth, and let the black clouds which thou hast covered over the land scatter, and let the people breathe, and look to the future with hope, and be free. My respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0039par0640	Thank you, Mr. Gündüz. This concludes the speech of the Republican People's Party Group. Now it's time for the speakers of the Justice and Development Party Group, which is in second place. The first statement is from Balıkesir MP Ali Aydınlıoğlu. Mr. Aydınlıoğlu, your time and the time of all the Justice and Development Group spokesman who will take the stand after you is limited to five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0040par0647	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on our budget for the Ministry of National Education, and I salute you all. In this blessed Mevlit Kandili, we are all deeply troubled by the terrible explosion in Beşiktaş, last night, to our innocent citizens who died in the explosion, to our martyrs, to God's mercy, to our wounded, and to our nation's heads. I strongly curse terror, terrorists, and those who support terrorism. Yes, my dear brothers, our Turkey will only be able to reach its goals through training in the 21st century. This year, as every year during the EC PARTY administrations, we have divided the largest share of the budget into national education. This is an indication of our government's importance to young generations in the development and development of our country. The year 2003, our budget is 147 billion, 12 billion in our Ministry of National Education, 8.7 per cent of our budget. The year is 2017, our budget is 645 billion, 122 billion for our Ministry of National Education, which is 19 percent of our budget. In 2003, 65 billion of 147 billion, 45 per cent of which were going to interest, dear friends, 57 billion of our 645 billion budget is going to interest in 2017, so it's down to 9 per cent. Similarly in 2003, $85 of each $100 goes to interest in 2017, while the rest goes to education, health care, agriculture, transportation, domestic arms industry, social benefits, poverty, the welfare and development of our people. As the Ministry of National Education, we are sure to adopt that everyone will benefit equally from teaching activities, that our students will gain the knowledge, skills, attitudes, and actions that the age requires, that they will grow up to be healthy, responsible, healthy, happy, to love their country, to love their country, to protect their country. With the work done so far, we've solved the problems of basic infrastructure and access greatly, thank God. We have reduced the number of students per class from 28 to 21, and the number of students per teacher from 28 to 16. In 14 years, we've appointed over half a million teachers. Education is always a common matter of our Turkey. We've taken pre-school education to an important point, but that's not enough, of course. In a year or two before school, we'll be forced to do so. We are changing the curriculum of the 5th graders with a foreign language weight. To improve the quality of education, we need 77,000 lessons in single teaching. Just as the EC PARTY government has completed 270,000 new studies in 14 years, by 2019, hopefully 77,000 classes and we will have completely removed bilateral education in Turkey. By the way, in our study at Balıkesir, only 8-10 schools are needed in order to study singles, and we have started them. Hopefully, we'll be studying singles in Balıkesir province before that goal, next year. My fellow lawmakers, the mandatory training period for our governments has been extended from eight to twelve years. Schools are now under way for the freedom to wear clothes. The 4+4+4-level education system has been switched. In this way, both our students' professional skills were revealed and the vocational technical schools were opened up. The EC PARTY has been saying new things for 14 years, creating new projects, trying to respond to all of our citizens' needs, despite the increasing, changing demands of our society, the rapid population growth. Our country was built with roads, bridges; tunnels, hospitals, housing, dams, schools. Our country has been blessed. There's a difference between the 2003 budget and the 2017 budgets, dear friends. At the time, the late Kemal Unakitan said, in 2003, I never forget that we have no money to pay the wages of our friends, officers and pensioners. There is nothing our country can't overcome, thank God, after we have peace and stability. I wish with this feeling and thought that our budget for the Ministry of National Education would be a blessing, and I salute all of you with love. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Aydınlıoğlu. Now, it belongs to Istanbul MP Ahmet Hamdi Çamlı. Mr. Piney, come in, from Dergaadet, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0041par0658	My dear President, I stand before you to review the department of the Ministry of National Education on behalf of the AK PARTI Group in the draft of the 2017 Central Management Budget Act. I salute the Veterans, the Veterans, the Veterans, the Veterans. At the same time, we also remember the 1445th anniversary of the arrival of the Lord of Mercy to all the worlds, and thank God for sending him to us. Now, I had prepared a budget, and I was going to introduce it, but after last night's incident, I decided that the budget could go beyond my preparation. I'd like to talk about something else, something more recent, something warmer, because I think our budget will go through, even if I don't talk about the budget too subtlely. I want to talk about the white man. Veterans of the precious veterans, I want to tell you about the white man. He went to a film that he told us many years ago -- and I want to cut short and narrow -- and here are the white men who butchered the Indians -- one day the Indians catch one white man, tie him to a tree, sir, they're going to execute him, they're going to execute him, they're going to execute him; don't do it, don't do it, that's it, that's it. As the Indian chief passes by to do his job, he tears, he tears, and the last thing he does is drool, and the head of the Indian goes: "There's no way, white man, you're going to die." Now, to those global thieves who came at us on the 15th of July, to the Zionist-guided imperialist thieves, here I say, white man, there is no cure, there is no cure. I know you well, look we know you well, white man. We know you in Çanakkale, and know you by burying nearly 400,000 sons of the land. We knew you in Iraq, in the Middle East. We saw you in Africa when you were exploiting my black brothers and sisters with pearl teeth. We saw you in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Europe, slaughtering 400,000 Bosnians in the 20th century, in the middle of the 21st century. We see you now at our feet, on the Syrian border, here and there, in Iraq. Sometimes we see it in your work inside. We saw you as an owl on the top of the House on July 15th, and we still have his prints on the walls of the House. Look, there are fuses on the wall, wicks on the wall, they're all white men's work. White man, you're gonna die. There's no cure. This nation's children won't let you through. By Allah's permission, all the children of this nation -- I say with all the MPs in this Parliament -- I say with all the noise that is being made here -- all the representatives of this nation and all the nation in this Parliament -- I saw them all on the evening of July 15th, I saw them in front of the capital city municipality, the last time I saw them, I watched the white man there when the helicopter opened with our President from Greenköy Airport, and when the helicopters from this nation's stolen helicopter turned against us. There's no way out, white man, you're gonna die. We only need one thing, unity and unity. Let's not waste time here with the trinkets. All we and all the world's oppressed need is unity and unity. We need to establish this unit as soon as possible. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0042par0666	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Now, it's up to Bingol MP Enver Fehmioğlu. Here you go, Mr. Fehmioglu.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0043par0670	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the 2017 budget of the National Ministry of Education. I salute your high council. Today we suffer a great deal of pain in the nation. In the hours of last night, 38 of our brothers were killed in the terrorist attacks in Istanbul. I ask God's mercy on our martyrs, my condolences on our grieving families and our nation, and for our wounded to be healed immediately. Today we also understand Mevlit Kandili. I congratulate you on the Mevlit Kandili, of our nation and of the Islamic world. Congressmans, we have put a great deal of emphasis on education during the AK PARTY administrations. The biggest part of the budget is that we divide it into the Ministry of National Education, because education and education are the largest areas that countries have to invest in. The budget opportunities for education and education are never unnecessary spending, but rather essential and profitable, even the biggest profitable investments. Even though all the time that goes from pre-school education to grad school may seem to be a demanding and demanding attempt, the hardest and expensive is ignorance, ignorance. Dear lawmakers, I think education and education should be considered under three topics. The first is building and hardware, in which both the ministry's budget resources and donations have been provided with huge improvements in the physical conditions of education. This year, a large number of transitions from dual education to single education across the country have begun. I'd like to express that the number of students per classroom at every level of education has fallen to below 30, thanks to the new classrooms. An example from my own electoral circle, Bingol, is that 90 percent of our schools have been transferred to single education, or normal education. Our number of students falls to the number of classes from 20 to 23. And given the rapid growth of our young population, I'd like to commend you on how important these investments are. Because success in national education and education is essential, especially when physical conditions improve and provide a comfortable environment. The second is the structure of teachers, students and staff. During our rule, we counted teachers and students as the primary element of education. We've removed the need for non-school institutions and allowed them to acquire all education and education under the school roof. We have been suspended from the identity of education and appointed under contract teachers without allowing the courses to go to waste by eliminating those in the wrong and malicious attempt to manipulate our future sons. We've made improvements in the financial resources of our teachers. We've started courses in schools for needy students. We freed our parents from the additional burden. We'd take care of the staff and staff needs in our schools. And I believe we can all overcome the problems ahead of us. Members of parliament, the third and most important topic in national education is curriculum studies. At every level of training, we have endeavored to prepare a civilian, liberal educational environment for the upgrade and development of the curriculum. In this sense, we wiped out the traces of February 28th on education, we ended monosymmetry, we brought clothing freedom, we eliminated coefficient injustice, we decrypted antidemocratic expressions in the curriculum, we made arrangements that pave the way for education in different languages and dialects, we allowed elective lessons. Congressmans, as a result of all these changes, I would like to express that students who study in public schools are more successful than students who study in private schools. Hopefully, next semester, we'll put pre-school education on the mandatory training staff to make our students more successful in their education, and more importantly... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to the future, which connects with the origins of its own civilization, where we will continue our efforts to create an educational environment for individual identityists to grow.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0044par0683	Thank you, Mr. Fehmioglu.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0043par0684	On this occasion, I wish you the best and the best of the 2017 budget, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0044par0685	Thank you. In turn, it belongs to Kahramanmarash MP Nursel Reyhanlıoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Reyhanlıoğlu.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0045par0688	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the National Ministry of Education of the 2017 Central Management Budget Bill, and I salute your grand delegation. I wish God's mercy to the martyrs who lost their lives last night in the treacherous attack in Istanbul. I'm speaking to the owners of the PKK, DEAS tongs: You're not going to make it. Turkey is no longer the former Turkey; it is not Turkey that is subjugated, ruled, accepted. It bothers you very much that we have a say in world politics. We know you're afraid of Turkey, but this new Turkey doesn't know how to back down, and you should know that. With the ambition to finish Turkey, those who work hard have long forgotten the victory of this country on July 15th. Such attacks do not cause us fear, as they did in Europe. If we die, we are martyrs, we are veterans. In the faith, we are a great nation; we will bring upon you all the games that are being played against us. The budget of Turkey's powerful National Ministry of Education in 2017 says that in the past 14 years, when AK PARTI governments have been admired and modeled by many countries, we see that there are national educational activities at the very beginning of these actions. The study of what can be called the silent revolution in national education has been carried out, while new schools and classrooms have been being built, while the technology-supported, students, not by freeing them, but by studying them in their thoughts, has been developed into a modern and advanced education system, which has been the same for years and has not been put on it for many years. When we brought in the 4+4+4 educational system, the opposition parties were critically critical of seeing this practice being done and accomplished in many developed countries around the world. Again, similar to this, our efforts to start our children in kindergarten at a younger age were criticised by the opposition and unappropriate. We, the AK PARTY, have trusted the children of this nation, as we have trusted our entire nation. Our children, who had been started early in kindergarten, adapted to their schools, while those who did not trust the EC PARTY failed. The EC PARTY, which became the symbol of stability and strong Turkey, knew the formula for a stronger Turkey very well, and in 2017, it again divided the largest budget between budgets into the Ministry of National Education. From 2002 to 2016, the number of students per class was reduced from 36 to 25 in primary school, from 31 to 23 in secondary school. In 2002, the number of students per teacher was reduced from 28 to 16 in primary school, from 18 to 13 in secondary school. In 2002-2003, the number of students studying at the university increased from 1,918,413 to 6,689,185. The rates of education for disabled and special students are continuous graphics during our administration, where foreign student rates come to receive higher education in our country, new classrooms and schools and teachers. We have faith as an AK PARTY that Turkey, which has taken an unstoppable state of power, will go to the highest level with our children trained in national and spiritual values. With these thoughts, I wish our 2017 budget to be good, I congratulate Mevlit Kandili, the entire Islamic world, and salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0046par0695	Thank you, Mr. Reyhanlıoğlu. Now, it's time for Isparta MP Sait Yüce. Here you go, Your Highness.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0047par0698	Mr. President, I have made a promise on behalf of the AK PARTI Group regarding the budget of the 2017 Higher Education Board. First of all, congratulations on the night of the custody of Muhammad (SAV), the Greatest Teacher and Prophet of mercy, the Lord of all worlds, who has brought light to the universe and the worlds, the light to light mankind with which he has brought it, and on the night of the custody of Muhammad (SAV). By the way, I strongly condemn the incident of my hand, which has left our nation in deep pain. No matter what they do, they will not defeat this nation and will not bring this country to its knees. As the sheriffs have stated, yes, martyrs are blessed with a life like earthly life for sacrificing their lives in the way of the right. They don't know they're dead, but they know they're going to a better world. Kamali is happy, they don't feel the pain of death, but those who do so will suffer the worst punishment in this world and in the Hereafter. We call it hell for the oppressors. I wish our budget would bring blessings to our universities, to our nation, to our young people, to our professors, and to all the education and teaching community. AS AK PARTI ruling, we did important work in higher education as a result of prioritizing education and education. Given the country's goal of becoming one of the world's 10 major economies in 2023, it can only achieve that goal with qualified information production and qualified human factor. In addition to global developments in the field of higher education, improvements in the numbers and diversity of higher education institutions from the beginning of the 2000s have been made, including new technologies, diversified learning methods, national and international work units, students' mobility, graduates' employment. Our higher education institutions are more transparent, qualified, accountable, and are taking on more responsibility at every level. As of this day, we have a total of 181 higher education institutions, including the state, 63, and the foundation institute of higher education and seven hundred and three thousand students. Last year, the Higher Education Quality Board was established to ensure internal and external quality security of educational institutions' education and research activities and administrative services, to authorise acreditation processes and independent external evaluation institutions. Increased performance of our universities, specialization of their own, rapid advances in science and technology, of course, will be reflected in the area of universities. It supports our universities' efforts to change structures during our rule, and we're trying to raise their funding well enough. With the support of our Development Ministry, five universities have been designated as part of the University Regional Development Mission Variation and Development Project. With the performance of our universities directly affecting the performance of others, regional development will be greatly benefited by this project. In this context, the most important initiatives conducted by the NGO so far in terms of structural change are the creation of the Quality Council and the differentiation of the mission. Under the legislation created, control of output processes and management of these processes were based on the establishment of the Higher Education Quality Board, which is not a unit of the NGO, but is related to the NGO, but is not dependent on it. In addition, the co-operation of our higher education institutions with advanced universities in different geographys of the world is supported. Meanwhile, new policies have been developed to speed up the return of manpower abroad to our country. In addition, our universities will be places where science, wisdom, justice, and truth are defended and taught, not as the basis of those who praise terrorism and terrorists under the name ▪ The late Minister of National Education, Tevfik, is not enough to teach moral lessons in the future, but the performers need to be moral heroes. Our ancient civilization and our culture are based on virtue, virtue. I thank you again and again to our head and staff, our university community, who have worked so hard in this direction in the name of raising our wealth, educated, cultured, humble, patriotic, historically conscious individuals. Again, I wish God's mercy on our martyrs, and patience for our heroic police force and our nation as we pray for healing for our wounded.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0048par0711	Thank you, Your Highness. The order belongs to Isaac Gazel, MP of Kütahya. Mr. Gazel, please.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0049par0714	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, the General Assembly, I salute our Veteran Assembly. I also curse the traitorous terrorist attack at Beşiktas last night. This terrorist attack is a treasonous act against our country's goals, integrity and public order. Unfortunately, such acts of terror occur immediately after a promising development of our country's future. There's no point in a terrorist organization being called PKK, whether it's a DEAS or a GERP; it doesn't make any sense. Terrorist organizations are targeting the unity of our country and the ideals of our country and are carrying out these vile acts of terrorism. As our precious MP Mr. Pineli just expressed, the white man is now in his final struggle. The same way we resisted terrorism and the invasion of our country on July 15th, the way we stood up to the actions of the terrorist organization before that, the way we stood together in unity and unity of the nation, we will stand united against these terrorist organizations for the unity and unity of our country. No one will be able to stop us from our way, no one will stop this holy march of our country. Again, I ask for God's mercy on our martyrs, condolences on the relatives, and immediate healing for the wounded. Dear lawmakers, we continue our negotiations on a very important day. As you know, yesterday, our EC PARTY group presented the Constitutional motion to our Speaker, who proposed a change in the government system. This change will be a new and historical transformation in Turkey if it passes through Parliament and is, hopefully, approved by our nation. We believe that this system change, which has been on the country's agenda for 50 years, which has been brought up by many of our statesmen, will gain a stable momentum of progress and development. Dear lawmakers, Turkey is the new rising power of the world, and it's progressing in a way that is consistent with its historical heritage and geographical status. This progress is the result of our country's years of long-awaited, stable government and the hard work of our nation. In the last 15 years, our country has made a rare developmental move and has set an example for the world. Turkey has also taken huge steps in many areas during this 15-year movement of development and progress, and we are in a rapid transformation in health and technology, in economics, politics, domestic and external security, in trying to establish the national defence industry. AK PARTY is one of the areas where the biggest moves are made during power. It is not possible to describe the huge moves made in the field of education in a short period, but let's just say that education in Turkey is one of the brightest periods of the republic, thanks to the AK PARTI rulings. Turkey's greatest power in its struggle to gain its rightful place among the world's states is, of course, its young population. Turkey's young population today, and the number of students in particular, is higher than the population of many prominent countries in the world. The zeal and success of the AK PARTY government, which aims to bring our young population and students above the level of infectious civilization, is also evident. In this context, one of our major institutions in education is the head of the OSCE. The presidency of the OSCE was established in 1974, then linked to the NGO, and then transformed into a private budgeted public institution with administrative and financial autonomy under the regulation of 2011. The bloody and treacherous face we saw clearly on July 15th, unfortunately, was also involved in the dirty schemes conducted by the OSD. This organization's past frauds, including irregularities, are now in session, and those responsible will be punished most severely, and those who receive the wrongful rights will be questioned by the nation. One by one, those who reside in educational institutions and public institutions will be identified by stealing questions, copying, and irregularly. From now on, measures against the irregularities of such organised crime networks will be taken in every respect. Currently, the OSD has been renewed by 95% of legal regulations from employees to technical infrastructure and continues to be renewed. There is now no issue of risk, from the process of writing questions on the basis of exam safety to being read and evaluated from being sent to the halls. On this occasion, the General Assembly welcomes you again, and I wish you the best of our 2017 budget.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0050par0725	Thank you, Mr. Gazel. In the seventh place is the Conium MP Hadji Ahmet Özdemir. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir, it's your turn.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0051par0728	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. The years pass, or Muhammad/ Months have always fought for us/ What a sunny night it was at night... / Oh, my God, that's my dream too! / The world has become a world of three hundred and fifty million today! Of the evil that hath been broken, the stranger hath become. / It's the sound of the bell in his brain / thousands of minarets. / For God's sake, O Nebiyy-i-i-submit, do not leave Islam like this. Our national poet Mehmet Akif Ersoy put his statement on the head of his unnamed poem on the night of a very sad town. I chose to begin with this poem, which I love, which has been related to the events of our country lately and just last night, and to the fact that it has to do with the Mevlid-i Nebi (now that we understand). I'm stringing up terrorists, terrorists, supporters, this phenomenon, and those who feed and raise them and unleash them on this saintly nation. Terror is the way of the weak, the wicked. Our pain, our anger, our patience, our mind is great. They're not going to be able to get our saint nation back from their big case. I pray to God for our martyrs, and to our wounded, and to our salvation. I've added my prayers to the prayers of the thousands who were divorced last night. I begged while everyone begged in their own spiritual world. I know their prayers by my own prayer, and I've listed my personal requests. I wanted the dawn of the centuries-long darkness of the Islamic world. I have called upon the people of the land to laugh at the people of the land for the sake of God's holy Book, for His revelations, for the unrestrained and unrestrained, for the sake of the people, for the sake of His mercy which has been enveloped. God should have given him the will. He had to give blood, life, and soul to the sighing breasts of the pale, so that the hope of Muslims, the last home of Islam, the sight of the Magians, Turkey, would rise up and spread its history to the world. So, in this night, let the doves be among the panels again, or Hu, or Hu, or Hu, or Hu, or Hu, or Hu, or Hu, or Hu, or Hu, or Hu, or Hu, or Hu, or Hu, or Sahib, or Yasin, or Yasin, or Hu, or Hu, or Hu, or Hu, or Hu, or Hu, or Hu, or Hu, or Hu, or Hu. With these thoughts, I'd like to briefly say something about colleges. Istanbul Darulfunun, which was opened with the founding of the Republic on May 31, 1933, has now cost us eighty-three years in history as a fertile enterprise with our universities reaching 182. The glass has its full side, and it has its empty side; the opposition tends to see and show the empty side of the glass by nature. And it's also true that it sharpens power at the point of doing better. Despite all the shortcomings, despite all the shortcomings, well-meaning efforts continue. The members of our teaching work to educate their students who have been entrusted with a selfless effort, to provide them with knowledge, knowledge, interpretation, analysis, and synthesis. Now our students, who have earned the right to higher education in universities that come to their cities, are trying to continue their studies, to absorb information, to bring about new science. Our Ministry of National Education and our Higher Education Board are also trying to run universities. On the one hand, under the teaching program, young people abroad and abroad work day and night. It is clear that we will soon reap the fruits of this situation, if not immediately. Let us not forget that the great Seljuklu, who established a state in 1040, began to build the famous Baghdad Nizamiye Medessesi in 1065, which was groundbreaking in the world educational system, and completed it in 1067. Turkey's Seljuklu state also decorated Asia Minor with educational institutions. The Ottomans built libraries, not simple Anatolian, but the Middle East, Africa, the Balkans, Europe, the Caucasus, the Crimean. Today is better than yesterday; tomorrow will be better than today, this song will not end here. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0052par0739	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. Bolu MP Fehmi Kübçü is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Cube.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0053par0742	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the budget of my esteemed colleagues on the Court, the esteemed MPs, the Ministry of Youth and Sports. I'd like to begin by welcoming your delegation and our beloved nation into a conversation. Dear lawmakers, at the point of our nation's journey from the fountains of great civilization, I would like to begin my words with the mercy of our saint and necipation nation, first by blessing our veterans and wounded, who have witnessed time, time and space on the road to the future with their bodies on July 15th, and by praying for immediate cures to our veterans and to our wounded. Because in our story of the road through over 2,000 years of history, we've been through nothing but treachery and treachery. From yesterday, the children of our ancient civilization, their mothers, their grandfathers, the attacks on our future from seven to seventy, the terrorists, the lunatics, his superior mind, have never kneeled down, and will then move on with the permission of our Lord, and the standing of our nation. Dear lawmakers, the budget I've been promised is the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. I must, of course, tell you in these 14 years in our country and in the major services of my constituency, the youth centers, athletic runways, stadiums, synthetic fields, golf courses, tennis courts, olympic swimming pools, sports halls, credit dorms, scholarships, so far from yesterday, without drowning in record numbers, of course. But, on the agenda, perhaps you should start with a diagnosis, in this brief period of time. As a basic example, our youth who only took advantage of our youth centers arrived at 11.614 in 2002, reaching 1,474,403 young people as of October 2016. Youth centers serve literature, foreign policy, civic awareness, dialectics, religious sciences, innovation, education of values, from yesterday to today, with an understanding of our future from the heritage of our ancient civilization. Young people, it's not just our future, it's our present, and may their existence last forever. From time to time, assessments of our young ones are made. Can't we grow a good generation? Are we growing up a youth of computers? Are we growing up a generation of computer youth? Dear lawmakers, both our government and our Ministry continue the march of democracy and justice on behalf of the nation with the power it has received from its nation, while it works with a growing, growing, peaceful Turkey story that changes with that consciousness and consciousness. Yesterday, when Bolu Gerede was a student at Hatip High School, as a brother who played football on concrete and cut off his front-line bond, my brother, the law. We're not talking about his understanding, not his understanding, but his ability to play football in the most king's synthetic field, who can swim in the Olympic pool; we're talking about a different concept of our children in the track, in the city stadium, on the tennis court, in the ski resort, in the youth center, in which he made every branch of the sport and grew up with history and national consciousness, not as a luxury, but as a basic need. We're not just talking about numbers, the existence of 100 times higher physical spaces. I'm looking for a young man, a young man, who starts with the bridgehead, and says, "Who's the bridgehead?" without looking to his left, he talks about a civilization that says, "I am." He talks about history, self-esteem, youth, and with this vision, we work for the young people of great civilization, and we make a budget. I thank our Ministry and our government on behalf of our nation, and celebrate the Mevlit Kandili, and greet the children of the great civilization, who, in the hope of bringing good things to our nation.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0054par0751	Thank you, Mr. Cube. Now, to speak, I call Ismail Emrah Karayel to the stand. Here you go, Mr. Karayel.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0055par0754	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Last night he curses the treacherous terrorist attack on Beşiktas, mercy from God to our brothers who were killed in this attack, patience to their relatives, and urgent healings from God to our wounded. I have made a promise on the 2017 budget of our Ministry of Youth and Sports. The Ministry of Youth and Sports was established in 2011 under the Code of Law 638, and its duties are again stated in this decree. Our ministry, which operates under its duties, is very aware that our young people are our future, and while trying to provide a maximum contribution to the development of both material and spiritual development and the growth of the most prominent young people as a career, our young people are also making an effort to take the values that make us who we are as a maximum. While the educational area of youth is organised by the Ministry of National Education, our ministry, perhaps the Ministry of Youth and Sports, has contributed the most to the framework set by the Constitution and the laws set out for their stay outside the school. The Ministry of Youth and Sports, which contributes to the development of young people through sports halls and projects, provides housing at the university, supports young people financially with scholarships and loans, touches every aspect of their lives. The ministry aims to raise young people who are the future of our beautiful country, loving, national and spiritual values, keeping their flag, embracing democracy, well-equipped. In this direction, the number of youth centers was 74, while in 2016 the number of youth centres reached 230. Another study focused on precision as a ministry is youth camps. In this case, in 2016, in 29 camps, tens of thousands of young people were offered the possibility of a youth camp. Our young people are being taken care of in every field, they are never handed over to other people's unclean ends. We agree that our young people are the future of our country and that they are highly equipped in every way. We must always remember that in every period of history and in every aspect of life, many important tasks are done by young people. Our government, which is aware of this, has once again shown its importance to young people by establishing the EC PARTI, Youth and Sports Ministry, as it has given the highest share of the budget to the Ministry of National Education, providing serious increases in the budget. Since its establishment in 2011, the Ministry of Youth and Sports's budget has increased year after year, reaching 11 billion 627 million and 263,000 liras in 2017. As in the past, this year's budget will be highly efficient and will lead to the growth of qualified young people and athletes. He has once again demonstrated that our young men, who have done important things since history, who have made major breakthroughs, are willing to do anything for our country on the night of July 15th, in any case necessary, to do anything for the country, the nation, the state, the flag. From the deserts of Central Asia to the plains of Anatolia, to the middle of Europe, and to North Africa, they are our young ones who carry our values. And in the battle of salvation, and in Çanakkale, they were also young men and women, from the villages and from the cities, as were their young friends, who had left their schools and ran to the front, and were not called men and women. It was our young people again who had achieved many important scientific and artistic achievements in the world's literature. We, the AK PARTY government, are working to bring the traits that exist in the hearts of our young people and that separate us from the nations into more vivid generations to come. We work for the 2071s and beyond to bring forth generations who will take away our country, our state, our nation. Hail the youth who will carry our civilization to its rightful place. On this occasion, I congratulate Mevlit Kandili, who was sent to the world as a mercy to the world, and wish good news to the Islamic world and to our country. I wish you the best of the 2017 budget.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0056par0763	Thank you, Mr. Karayel. In order to speak, Rize MP Osman Love belongs to Bak. Here you go, Mr. Bak.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0057par0766	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. I wish God's mercy to our policemen and to our citizens who were killed in the treacherous terrorist attack of Beşiktas last night, and to their families, and to our wounded, I pray for immediate healing. On this day, when the Lord of the Prophet has brought forth the worlds, I congratulate the Mevlit Kandili, of all our country and all the worlds of Islam. I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the 2017 budget of the Sports General Directorate. The investment in our sport and youth is made in our future. Especially our Minister, both our ministries are here, so I congratulate them. With the protocol between the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Youth and Sports in April, it is vital that our schoolchildren exercise at least two majors. At this point, this project will allow both the spread of sports culture and the determination of the contestant athlete. The increase in school sports activities, the increase in the number of school sports clubs, states that in the future, we will have significant success in sports. Sports is an active tool in both the fight against drugs and the fight against terrorism. Our Ministry of Sports is taking our young people off the streets, bad habits, and the grip of the terrorist organization by building swimming pools with modern facilities, closed gyms, neighborhood fields. At this point, the neighborhood areas that our Ministry of Youth and Sports has built... have built more than 750 districts, other than that, have made small carpeting fields, and thus have driven our young people away from those bad habits, from those bad structures. At this point, I thank them. Our amateur sports clubs, of course, are the basis of Turkish sports. So I ran an amateur sports club. The number of amateur sports clubs, which were 6,035 in 2002, increased to 13.352 in 2016. This number has to be increased because it's really where we can touch young people, where we can direct them. The managers of amateur sports clubs are heroes, the brothers of the neighborhood; they allow us to grow up and stay away from bad habits. At this stage, our Ministry of Sports has taken significant steps to support our amateur sports clubs with material support; we wish it to continue, and at this point we thank our Minister. We also want to thank Sport Toto (Sports Toto) for these investments on the basis of sports Toto (Sports Toto). In terms of investments in our sports clubs in Rize, I thank them for the support provided by the gyms, for the youth centers. Of course, eight medals from the 2016 Rio Olympics are really important. I believe this will increase. As a wrestling major, I'm also proud because I was President of the Turkish Wrestling Federation from 2007 to 2011. I congratulate Taha Akgül, who received the gold medal, Reza Kayaalp, who received the silver medal, Selim Yaşar, and Soner Demirtaş, who received the bronze medal, and Cenk Province. Other than that, I congratulate Nur Tatar, who received bronze in taekwondo, Daniel Ismayilov, who received silver in weightlifting, and Escobar, who received bronze in athletics. Sure, is that enough? We have to do more. We see the signs of that. Their project, the Olympic Prep Centres of Turkey (TOHM), seeded it with their projects. The athletes who really grew up there will represent our country in the future, in the Olympics, in the world championships, and will win a medal for our country. At this point, I'd like to thank our Ministry for the work done. I would also like to congratulate our Minister and his team at the point of counter-doping, as well as at the distance of our ministry. You know, I was president of the Anti-Doping Commission in 2014. They continue to follow our advice there. Sure, we're waiting on the anti-doping law, Mr. Secretary. We thank Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan for his support for sports. Indeed, for us, the Ministry of Youth and Sports conducts efforts to touch our young people, build dorms for them, build youth centers, and bring our youth into the future. That's why you're on the right track, Minister. We support your work, we trust you, we trust your team. We thank you all for your investment in our future young people. I wish the 2017 Youth and Sports Ministry budget to be a blessing, and in the future, a stronger Turkey at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, we expect more medals. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0058par0783	Thank you, Mr. Bak. Now it belongs to İzmir MP Kerem Ali Continuum. Here you go, Mr. Constant.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0059par0787	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I strongly condemn the traitorous, vile terrorist attack at Beşiktas last night. I ask for the mercy of our martyrs, the Lord of God, and my condolences to their families. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. I wish our wounded a speedy recovery. Before we came here, we were on social media with our police. Yes, we're with our police, we're with you to the end, we're with our soldiers, we're with our security forces. We're going to beat this terror. We're with them with our prayers, our support. DAEŞ, Ankara, Kurdistan Workers' Party, we will defeat them all. Our struggle will go on until the end, no one will divide this nation, no one will bring down this flag, no one will bring our country to its knees. Yes, today we understand Mevlit Kandili. And congratulations to Mevlit Kandili, of the Islamic world. I have made a pledge on the 2017 budget of the Higher Education Credit and Housing Institution (YURTKUR). The Institute of Higher Education Loans and Homes (YURTKUR) was established in 1961 and has been operating successfully for over 50 years. He's made some really important breakthroughs in recent years, and he's become a brand. In the past, there used to be 60 percent, 70 per cent fills, while the current hail has reached 100 per cent. When we look at the budget, in 2002, we see that the budget of YURTKUR is $494m. We see that the 2016 budget is 9 billion 377 million, 831 liras. As we look at the 2017 budget, we see that the budget for YURTKUR is 11 billion, 366 million, 431 dollars. Really, there's a huge increase. We see it reflected in the number of beds. In 2002, the number of beds was 182,289, and now the number of beds we reached in 2016 was 553,177. Investments are going on, construction's going on, projects are going on. By the end of 2019, we will be able to reach bed capacity 778,421. Yeah, well, what's the situation if we look at applications and placements as a result? As of December 1, 2016, the number of applications for YURTKUR is 408,457 this year, placement 318,831, 78.05 per cent. Of course, our target is 100%. We have to place every student who's applied; our Ministry, YURTKUR, has to do it. And hopefully, as a result of the work done -- and I've just expressed -- we're going to get to this missed level as a result of the number of beds we've reached. So, how are the installations made in YURTKUR? The data is collected from 11 public institutions, the students' success status, their family's social and income status has resulted in computer work and installations. Again, I say: Hopefully, by 100 percent in the years to come, every student applying will be settled in YURTKUR. So, what's the situation in my election circle, Izmir? In Izmir, the work of YURTKUR is being carried out in a busy, successful way. In 2002, he had 9.756 beds, while in 2016 he reached 16,289. Again, with investments -- God willing -- our next target next year is 23.539. The next year's work continues at the centre of Izmir, 4,000 plus 2,000, 750 in Urla, and 500 in Bergama. There are some really important activities going on in these dorms. To protect our students from harmful habits, social, cultural activities are also made to strengthen our students' feelings of brotherhood and unity. Hopefully, I wish the 2017 budget to be a blessing. And I offer my regards to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0060par0799	Thank you, Mr. Constant. Now Bilekık MP Halil Eldemir will speak. Here you go, Mr. Eldemir.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0061par0802	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTI Group over the budgetary budget for the Office of Higher Education Loans and Yurts of 2017 Central Management Budget Bill. On this occasion, representatives of our national will, I salute you, our esteemed MPs, and with you, our beloved nation. First of all, I would like to wish mercy on our members of the police and citizens, who were killed in the foul attacks in Istanbul, to the mercy of God, to our wounded, to our immediate healings, and to their families. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Turkey is threatened with blood, terrorism, violence, pressure in every relationship facing its future and stability, right after its new steps at every point. These attacks, which refer to our country's integrity, our national unity and our future, will not diminish our resolve, on the contrary, will increase our resolve. May our nation rest in peace. I also call upon the Lord God to bless our nation and all the worlds of Islam today. Mr. President, valuable members, we can round up the activities of the Higher Education Loans and Homeland Institution under two main topics: First, to provide housing for our college students, our young people, and second, to give scholarships or loans to young people who are in need or demanding pre-licenses, graduates, and PhDs. Our predecessor, Izmir MP Kerem Ali Cem Bey, has voiced the investment activities of the Higher Education Credit and Homes Association on dorms. I'm going to talk about financial support for our students here, within the institution. First of all, I'd like to point out that from the year of our government, 2012-2013, the tuition fees for the first education of all state universities have been dropped. As part of the scholarship and loan services, the scholarship has been granted to successful and needy students as of 2004. In 2002, 451,550 students were given student loans, but starting in 2004, all students who applied were given student loans. In 2016, 1 million 508,769 students receive student support. One million, 134,157, are granted student loans, and 374,612 are provided as a scholarship. A monthly loan to students in 2002 is 45 euros, and a scholarship payment of $400 or a loan payment is paid by around 9 times higher than January 2016, and, in the same way, a master's loan and scholarship amount is $90, while 800 lira is now paid at $135 euros per month in 2002, as of 2016. In addition, our students who stay in the dorm receive $9.5 per day food allowance as part of their nutrition allowance. In the meantime, I'd like to briefly mention the investments of the Loan Homes Institution in my constituency area, Bilecik. During the 2016-2017 school year, 2.060 students have applied and 1,979 have been placed in the dorms; the reception rate is 96.07 per cent. Hopefully, we must reach 100 percent in all our provinces and districts. On this occasion, I would like to welcome all of our members of the Ministry, the head of the Credit and Homes Association, to all of their staff, especially our Minister of Youth and Sports, who has implemented and contributed to these healing policies. I would like to call upon the blessing of our 2017 budget from the Holy Father.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0062par0813	Thank you, Mr. Eldemir. Now it's time for the Libzon MP Muhammad Balta. Mr. Axe, please.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0063par0816	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization budget. I salute our holy nation and your high council. First of all, I ask for the mercy of God to our officers and to our citizens, to the children of our homeland, to our wounded, who were killed last night in a traitorous and vile terrorist attack in Istanbul, and I ask for immediate healing for our wounded, and I ask for patience for our nation. First of all, congratulations to Mevlit Kandili. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the speakers have just criticised the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism in particular, and we have no respect. But I'd like to remind you of before 2002. So you quit your jobs, you polluted nature, you massacred the zoning. They made accusations. Prior to 2002, nearly 14 zoning pardons were granted from 1950 to 2002. Besides, in the early 2002s, if we remember the 1990s, our waters were inexhaustible in all our provinces, especially in Istanbul. There was air pollution, garbage on the street. Wild storage spaces explode, people die. Let's remember those days.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0064par0820	People are dying today, and people are dying today.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0063par0821	In a television program, a documentary says, "What are you going to do with your patients?" He says: "Our patients must not come to Istanbul or leave their homes. We have forgotten them too early. We don't want to remind you of those days, but we, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, as EC PARTY governments, cleaned the water, cleaned the air, cleaned the soil. And that's where I want to explain what we're doing. My dear friends, my dear fellow lawmakers, especially in Turkey, when the EC PARTI came to power, 35 per cent of the municipality's population were given wastewater treatment. It is currently being given to a total of 80 per cent. What's our target? 100%. These waste-water treatment facilities are given grants, especially from the budget of our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, to change environmental sensitivity and mentality in people. So I'd like to say here in particular that our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism covers 50 percent of the annual energy consumption of wastewater treatment facilities that are run in line with the context. From 2011 to 2016, 157 million people were given support, and 60 million in 2016, within this year. What else? While the garbage mountains were exploding, people were dying, we turned garbage into a raw material with economic value. What have we done? They had a solid waste facility, 15 of them, and we took them up to 82. What else? With 1,091 municipalities, we serve 52 million people. What's our target? To serve 79 million people throughout Turkey. We produce 155 megawatts of electricity from garbage here, and especially 3 billion in waste recycling facilities, and over 60,000 people are employed. My dear brothers and sisters, we're especially monitoring the air quality. There were 36 stations in 2005, and as of today, we delivered 233 stations with 229 constants and 4 mobiles. Again, we support our municipalities through the ILBANK; 36 billion from 2002 to 2016, 4 billion of which are grants. Again, under SDUAP, we have supported water, sewer infrastructure projects with 2.5 billion grants, about 4 billion credits, and we're doing it here, without discrimination, without any political distinction. What else? Especially urban transformation. Turkey is a national project to prepare for disasters, especially to prepare for disasters. With Law 6306, we launched urban transformation in 49 cities in Turkey. About 400,000 dwellings are risky. And we're going to tear it down and do it again in the meantime. And here we have 2.5 billion liras that have been divided so far. In the eastern and southeast areas where terrorism was destroyed, a grant was set aside, especially in Şırnak and 6 counties, around $10 billion. With our prime minister's tender on September 4th, we will present this service to our citizens there with a bid of $1 billion,400 million. We -- I repeat -- we cleaned the water, we cleaned the air. We call it an environmentally sensitive, infrastructure-based, earthquake-ready Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish this budget to the best, to all of our bureaucrats, especially our Minister, and to the highest council, I salute you again.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0065par0829	Thank you, Mr. Axe. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the last speaker is Kayseri MP Sami Dedeoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0066par0832	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group to discuss the budget of 2017 for the esteemed MPs, Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. I curse those who committed the traitorous terrorist attack against our security forces and our citizens last night and their accomplices. As a result of this treacherous attack, I ask God's mercy on our fellow martyrs, his condolences on our relatives and on our nation, and for our wounded, the Lord's immediate healing. And congratulations to Mevlit Kandili, who we'll be able to understand tonight. Dear lawmakers serve our country with the office of Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, 22 district directors, 970 deed managers and 81 cadastro directorates, and our ministry of Environment and Urbanism, which has a hundred and sixty-nine years of history. Unfinished cadastro services until 2003 have reached the end of our reign. With the finishing of cadastro studies and the way we've done it, the cost to the state was reduced to about 170 million euros a year, while the Treasury received an average of $140m in tuition and tax revenues per year. Dear MPs, our Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate has also used technology to give our citizens a great deal of ease. The transactions of mortgages and abandonment began electronically, and all other fees and fees of abandonment were available before our citizens arrived at the title office. Again, using technology to implement e-government applications, our citizens have been able to access both the property records and cadastro data of the movers through the e-state code. As a result of the work of our Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, it has been secured to switch hands and register with the deed exchange practices. They've all been in the AK PARTY's power. Across Turkey, the level of satisfaction our citizens receive in the deeds and cadastro services is 97.5 per cent; this level of satisfaction is seen in my electoral district, Kayseri. Honourable lawmakers, on the night of July 15th, these men who fed on us for 40 years, dressed in sheep's clothing, rained bullets on innocent, innocent, innocent, innocent, innocent people with our nation's planes, helicopters, weapons, and tanks and vehicles and people. In our political history, our country has faced many coups, but none as cruel and treacherous as the coup on July 15th. The coups so far have not even harmed the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but these traitors have bombed the Grand National Assembly of Turkey without blinking an eye. Let these scoundrels not forget that on that day, when our Veteran Assembly was bombed, our Parliamentary Speaker and political parties stood firm and defended the House and cried out the voice of national will to the world. We have submitted a petition to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in order to maintain national will and to prevent future generations from forgetting the 15th of July. As a result of the studies, the Ankara province of Çankaya, where the Grand National Assembly of Turkey served on its record of the immovable deed of number 7,955 islands 5 (23/11/2016 dates 88,501 years), has been recorded on July 15, 2016. The goal of doing so is to keep future generations from forgetting the atrocities that took place on the night of July 15th. I find it very important that the title of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be handed over to the deed. Here, I thank you very much for the work and support of our Parliament Speaker and Minister of Environment and Urbanism. Once again, I give thanks to our beloved nation, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, and to the esteemed MPs of the High Assembly, who stood by this country and the Veteran Assembly, by putting their lives on the line that night. As I put an end to my words, I wish the 2017 budget to be good for our country and our nation, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit01spe0067par0844	Thank you. I'm taking a thirty-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0067par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. Now it's time for the People's Democratic Party Group on behalf of the groups. The first word on behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group belongs to Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Ayhan. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0068par0009	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. Before I begin my speech, I wish God's mercy to those who lost their lives yesterday's attack in Istanbul, and to those who were injured, and to those who were injured, an urgent cure. Besides, it's Mevlit Kandili today. I wish the lamp to bring peace and peace to all mankind. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the National Ministry of Education. Last week, the PISA 2015 report was released. According to the PISA results, Turkey became 52°th in the science field among 70 countries, 49°th in the mathematics field, and 50°th in the study area. Compared to the past years, the results appear to have dropped to the back of Turkey's 2003 points. In 2003, the country averaged 434 to 425, with a score of 423 to 420, with a reading score of 441 to 428. In other words, during the AKP's rule, the quality of education has not improved. Unfortunately, these scores are going from west to east, from central to rural. The PISA results are also a serious indicator of AKP's 14-year education and report card. If there is one thing that all educators, experts and academics share in this field today, it is not the students who are responsible for this painting, but the education policies of political power. In his statement, the minister said there was a mistake in the assessment of PISA (PISA), saying that we are at a very good point in education right now. Of course, Mr. Secretary can say and say the work of foreign altars for our country by taking this claim one step further. No one needs to twist and twist the truth. I'd like to ask the minister: we have a population of 80 million. More than half of this is a young and dynamic population. How many medals have we received from the Olympic results so far? How many technological breakthroughs do we have in the world today? Minister, if education is constantly divided according to scientific, secular, democratic, pluralist, liberal content, instead of a monotheist, sexist, central, militant, nationalist, and showen content; students are constantly divided according to their classes, genders, color, languages, ethnities; if they are created by these differences, deep inequalities; if they are transformed into an area where education, where education, without money, money, capital, and certain congregations are driven; students are being introduced by their identities, by their identity, by their language, by their language, by their language, by their language, by their ethnities; if they are being subjected to education, by their training, by means of political training; if they're left behind, by the basis of education, by means of education, by two people who have lost their education; if they've lost their lives; if they've lost their lives; if they've lost their education, they've lost their lives in a political system; if they've lost their lives; if they've lost their lives in the same way of education, but they've lost their lives; if they've lost their lives; if they've lost their lives in a political system; if they've been in the same way of education, without their lives, but they've lost their lives; their education, they've lost their education, without their lives; their education, without their lives, and their lives; their lives; if they've been in a political, without a political, without a political, without a political; and their lives; if they've been in a political; if they've been in the same. I'd like to remind you of a word by Socrates regarding education. The education is to light a fire with a spark, not to fill an empty container, which is what Socrates said in Athens two thousand and five hundred years ago. The aim of the AKP is not to enlighten the students, but to fill the student's head in the way John Locke said, as he called it, as he called it, as he viewed the student as an empty plate. Dear lawmakers, the 2016 education budget has been prepared with a context that ignores the basic needs of the education system and higher education, which can be considered as a copy of the previous budget. About 80 per cent of the national education ministry's budget is understood to have staff costs and state premiums to the Social Security Institution. In 2002-2016, the direction of the national education ministry's budget for educational investments has been divided from the budget to the highest part of the budget at every opportunity. It is a proof of how those who say, "How they deceive the people, how they distort the facts over the education budget." From pre-school to higher education, budgets are used only for mandatory expenditures at all educational levels, with the government's one hand constantly reaching into the pockets of students and parents. When it comes to problems in public schools, there is no source. By lying to them, the political government is very generous in transferring public resources to private schools, leaving the schools to its own destinies. I'd like to ask the minister, why doesn't every school have a school budget run by school components? Despite the propaganda that over the years the budget has been divided into education, it is sufficient to look at OECD data to see how much of the budget's share has been spent on qualified education for our children and young people. According to the Court's MEB report, the total funding from the 2015 budget to the MEB is 62 billion 248 thousand euros, but the grant at the end of the year is 42 billion,640 million,460,000 euros. About 18 billion of the funds predicted in the 2015 budget were not spent on education, and where did this grant go, and its outcome is uncertain. Therefore, this situation needs to be cleared up by the Minister. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, in the course of our time today, they have a problem with education policies curriculum, organisation, management, hardware, financing. There are also numerous problems with the basic elements of the education process for students from education workers. If we try to give a speech on the problem areas of the MEB, it would take hours just to sort out the headlines, but we'll try to make a brief mention of the most important areas of the problem and try to explain when our language turns to overcome the illusion created by the government. The first is children in the age of education who have lost their lives due to the negligence or deliberate attitude of the state. There is a children's crisis in Turkey. Children are being slaughtered or killed for many reasons, especially in the war in Kurdistan, from domestic violence to child labor, from child marriage to child marriage, from dietary disorders to non-human accidents. Just last week, we lost 12 lives in Aladağ. Again, wrong politics and neglect. It's our duty and responsibility to put protecting children ahead of all policies. Unfortunately, this notion of protection does not exist in the Ministry. Children's deaths, child labor, child abuse, going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on from the Ministry. The Agenda Boy investigating these issues is being shut down, and there's no word from the Minister again. Has the Minister ever studied the work of the Agenda Boy? Why is this association closed? Is this association shut down because he's investigating child labor, death and abuse? Dear MPs, with your permission, I'd like to share with you the following statements used by a boy from Cizre in the blockade process: "It is forbidden to go on the street." They say, "We enter the house, we are killed by mortars, and we are killed by snipers on the street." What do we do when the streets are being killed, and the children are not? These statements clearly reveal the cry of Kurdish children and the situation of Kurdish streets isolated from life by the state. Over the past year, hundreds of children have lost their lives, hundreds of schools have been destroyed, tens of thousands of students have been left without school, hundreds of teachers have left the area when curfew began in Sur. Mr. Ismet went back to his days at the Ministry of Defense and remained silent about turning schools into police stations. At this point, the government's compensation training and other practices are far from narrating and welcoming the loss and traumas that have been experienced. Unfortunately, our initiatives and legal proposals, which allowed students of the 8th and 12th graders to be granted a one-time pass without a test, were left unanswered. Another important problem area is education in the native language. The child's home, the world of vision, mind, imagination is the mother tongue. Education is only meaningful if it's built on it. Countless scientific studies list the benefits of the child's start in the native language. Therefore, many international texts highlight the vital importance of education in the main language. Many developed countries develop models for primary language education, but education in Turkey is still banned in the main language. The state continues to fear different languages in its territory. That's why the Zarok language is being shut down. Therefore, the Ferzad Villiger school, which strives to provide education in the native language despite all pressures and obstructions, is being shut down by KÜRDI-DER, who is conducting studies on Kurdish. Therefore, the appointment of Kurdish teachers is inconsequential. The Kurdish elective practice, which we find incomplete and inadequate, is also being blocked. Mr. Secretary, how many students have gone to Kurdish electives? That's a question to ask. How many classes have they opened? Another important question we would like to ask the minister is that education is an important part of the protection of languages. According to UNESCO's Atlas of Dangerous Languages, 15 languages are in danger of extinction in Turkey. Dear lawmakers, one of the main problems that poses a problem in education is the transformation of upper secondary schools. During the AKP's ruling period, two times the number of classrooms were closed under the name of the parallele fight, while the Ministry of National Education began to create a new kind of private high school under the name of the upper secondary school, which wanted to turn it into an opportunity. I want to be very clear, Mr. Secretary, that basic high school equals student trafficking, no pedagogic benefit. He says science high schools are first in their PISA results. Mr. Secretary, you don't invest in science schools, you invest in imam-hatip high schools, you invest in private vocational schools, you send students to these schools against their will. The symbol for public education in Turkey under the name "Project School" is being eliminated. For no reason at all, the casts are being distributed for water reasons. Another dangerous situation in upper secondary schools was Law 405 ranked in the General Assembly last month, with which teaching as an apprentice is mandatory secondary education. So child labor will be spread by the state's hands. Private vocational upper secondary schools were turned into profit-profit companies by selling their products. Our children were turned into cheap laborers for capital. On 29 November 2016, 12 people lost their lives and 24 others were injured in a fire in a girl's dorm in Aladağ district of Adana. The incident in Aladağ puts the government-dominated partnership in full nudity. It was once again reflected in the public opinion of how the right to reside in congregations, which should have been public and without money, was followed by a complete lack of supervision in these areas. The purpose of power is not to raise healthy generations for the future, but to raise obedient, unquestioning, swear generations. Education is quickly moving away from science and secular education. In schools, AKP's design on its own political perception of Islam has rapidly increased to an alarming dimension. In particular, it is possible to say that after 2010, there was an intense siege in the field of education and practices. One of the main problems of the training field is unassigned teachers. There are still over 300,000 teachers in Turkey who have not been appointed, although we have repeatedly expressed the unassigned teachers. This issue also needs to be resolved immediately, because if this problem is not resolved, it will continue to occupy Turkey's agenda as a major problem. Political pressures on current teachers are increasing day by day. For years, political power has organised the education system in its own worldview, while political staffing operations in all public institutions continue to take place, and on the other hand, investigations, deportations and punishment practices are increasing. Members of the EDUCATION-SEN who have been suspended and discharged from their duties must be extradited immediately, and their investigation, exile, and punishment must be terminated. More than 30,000 teachers were expelled in the middle of the night, thousands of them suspended, without any administrative or criminal investigations, responsibility or crimes, without concrete evidence. Mr. Secretary, what criteria have these names been set? Again, the process has been expanded with great opportunism, including the coup attempt and the democratic and opposition academics and educators, who have no relationship with the congregation. About 10,000 members and 11.301 teachers from Kurdish provinces have been suspended, especially because they participated in trade union activities, especially because they participated in the act of quitting work on December 29th. Although they have been reinstated, there are still a large number of teachers out in the open, administrative investigations are being conducted about these teachers. The teacher, who is a member of the 774 Education-SEN with the State of Emergency, has also been suspended and exported 83 academics who sign for the declaration of Academics for Peace, titled "We will not be a party to this crime." The contract-based teaching practice based on July 15 interviewing was carried out by the State of Emergency (KHK). The contract makes the teaching profession unsafe while opening the door to interviewing teachers. The questions asked to the candidates in the interviews reveal the government's purpose in this matter. In addition, detention students in prisons were stripped of their rights to education, their entrance to exams were prevented. The student's rights are also being taken from them in one pen. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Board of Higher Education is just one of the countless evils the fascist junta of September 12th has done to this country. The AKP government, which talks about the importance of fighting coupters at every turn, continues to protect the 12 September High School Law, which must be thrown into the garbage of history, by strengthening it with illegal, oppressive new tools. In parliament last month, disciplinary provisions were also passed against the law adopted by the AKP (AKP); the number of verbs considered a crime has increased greatly. Mr. Secretary, you have to listen to scientists who say that autonomous universities are the guarantee of democratic societies, that we will not give up our universities to the YÖK, the State of Emergency and the dictatorship. You have to listen to the scientist Nuriya Güln, who has been unjustly and unlawfully discharged, who has been detained over and over again for resisting this illegality, and who cries out every day on Yüksel Street. In addition, the recent amendments also linked the current presidential elections in the RSR to the President, where a limited number of democratic practices have been eliminated, and universities have been completely transformed into antidemocratic, repressive, singular and status quo locations. Mr. President and valued lawmakers, I hereby declare that we are against the education budget of the AKP's government. As I end my remarks, I'd like to end with a political operation on November 4th, a total coup, with the verses of Sezai Karakoc, which are now held hostage by our co-chairs and MPs. They think that if we were to be silent, we would not be silent. If the time were to be silent, the truth would not be silent. They think that if they could escape from Us, they would not be able to escape the punishment of the past. I salute you all. Good luck...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0069par0037	Thank you. In turn, Adana MP Bilal Danış Beştaş. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0070par0042	Ladies and gentlemen of the law and the people who follow us, members of the House, I salute everyone. I've made a commitment to the SNSM budget, the chairman of the Center for Measurement, Selection and Placement. However, before we go into that, today is Mevlit Kandili. At first, I congratulate the whole world of humanity, the Muslim community, the Mevlit Kandili. I wish it to bring peace and peace. The other, unfortunately, is increasing in death in the bomb attack in Istanbul last night.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0071par0046	Martyr!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0070par0047	This Parliament, politics, and we parliamentarians have much greater responsibilities than condemning the truth, and never to suffer again. My sincerest condolences to all the families, and to the wounded, I wish them a speedy recovery. The words of his father's press releases this morning, of course, of 79 million, I'm sure, he has branded his heart, so it's directed towards us, towards politics, to all of us, he says: "It's not solved just by going to pray in the grave, to offer condolences, or to leave flowers. This message is not solved to us, not to anyone else. Really, right now, there has been a lot of pain in Turkey in the period since June 7th, when the solution process was finished. Everyone gets their share of the pain; Diyarbakir gets it, Cizre gets it, İstanbul gets it, Ankara gets it, Hakkari gets it. And we need to think about how to stop these deaths, apart from condemning them in Parliament, suffering, sharing pain, responsibility, the effectiveness of politics. What are we missing, what are we doing wrong, and why is this violent spiral getting bigger and bigger? We really need to think this through. There have been many statistics since yesterday: Ankara, Suruç, Diyarbakır, İstanbul, Sultanahmet. We witness how much we've lost in the explosions, and how the cries of revenge were thrown after each explosion. Today, the same language was restored to life. These words of revenge certainly don't stop violence, they don't reduce social polarization, they don't cure the absence of deaths; we need to build another language, and politics needs to find that language. It is our duty to build peace, resolution, equality, brotherhood, a democratic constitution in this land, to bring it into our bodies. Now, as you can see, every time we talk, we leave photos of our friends being held hostage in prison. Here, how violence increases, how death increases? When the speech is banned, when politics is blocked, when democratic political channels are shut down. The attacks against HDP (HDP) or other NGOs, newspapers, associations, the more closed the solution is not with them, the more unresolved, the more unsolvability is being produced, and that's exactly what we have to talk about on a day like today. I'm condemning the language of the solution process from here, and I'm condemning it from the stand, so we need to talk. Where there is no conversation, not only in such great events, but in any case, even in the debate between two people, between the neighbors, if their communication is broken, violence comes into play; blood feuds, major killings, murders -- when the conversation is over, silence has been silenced, and curfews have begun, violence and death increases. So let's all look for solutions together before we make this death spiral any bigger. Which one of us has no relatives in Istanbul? Which one of us has no son, brother, nephew, sister, father, mother, or relative, especially in Istanbul or Ankara? Didn't everyone's heart jump? Didn't we all hug the phones? Everyone has a family, a relative, an environment, and it's up to this Parliament to show will. I want to do this call to show that will with my heart and my thoughts. Dear friends, many discussions, speculation, speculation about the topic I promised -- many newspapers that have ruined the lives of young people, changing the results, commenting and real information is spreading in public. This year, around 445 million SNSM budgets were envisioned as 438 million for 2017. This budget corresponds to 0.06 per cent of the central management budget total. This was 0.08 per cent in the previous budget, so there's a 0.02 per cent decline. More than half of the SNS budget, 53.3% of its staff costs and is a state premium for Social Security. All of us know that the number of students taking the SNSM tests has increased year after year. The reduction of the SNSM budget in 2017 clearly shows and clearly points out that the examination fees will increase further. The way to do that is to remove this non-fair, non-equalist approach, and create an untested educational system. In fact, the OSD is a particularly legitimate institution in the eyes of students, young people, student families taking exams, and as a whole the educational community and society. These particularly sensational test questions remain on the agenda in Turkey. Cheating claims on the exam further increase and strengthen the question of the canceled test. The latest copy scandal was a scandal in the newspapers dated July 13th. Again, a lot of information, documents, investigative documents have been collected in the files on how parallel state structures have interfered with the Fetullahist organisation's SNSM testing system, how many years it has stolen. In fact, government officials and government officials and individuals who have spread the information ordered on live TVs with such large claims have already explained to the public every day how this fetullahist structure interferes with the OSYM, and how they are placed in the public staffs, which universities, which universities. In the upcoming indictments, the evidence will be revealed to all of us to read and know more about them. For example, there's a claim that it's gone from being a bet -- that for 11 years, all of the ESYM's test questions have been stolen. This is a very serious thing, dear friends. The exam is already unfair in an environment where students can't go to school for months in Kurdish provinces, where they can't go to school, where teachers can't go to school, where they can't go to school, where they can't go to school, where they can't go to school, where they can't go to school for years; who is already taking private classes, who is studying at the university, who is studying at the school, who is studying at the school, who is studying in a village in Diyarbakır, who has no equal rights and opportunities; and on top of that, they don't have to steal the test questions, not to steal copies, especially in chemistry questions and German questions. This system must be organized from beginning to end. With puzzles, changes in the field of education have found no cures or solutions for education. Today, the educational environment faces another massacre for educational workers. Teachers are being expelled, arrested, even students, high school students, here's what kind of treatments they're being treated at İstanbul Kadıköy High School, and they're being treated in front of all of us. In such an environment, no one should be surprised at the low level of success in Kurdish provinces. In an environment where schools are turned into police stations, no success is expected at the same level. All students in Turkey are at the same level, or rather, if we don't show the same unique and equal approach, we'll never achieve this success, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0072par0054	Thank you. It is now the turn of Mardin MP Erol Dora. Here you go, Mr. Dora. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0073par0058	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on universities on behalf of the People's Democratic Party under the budget bill of 2017. I salute the General Assembly. First, I strongly condemn the terrorist attack that took place in Istanbul last night, and I wish God's mercy on the people who lost their lives, and my condolences to their relatives. I too wish that the whole world of Islam would celebrate Mevlit Kandili, and that the lamp would bring love and peace. Dear MPs, of course, today, there are hundreds of issues in our country that we need to talk about for hours when we're called university. We face the consolidation of staffs from universities' establishments and operations, under the shadow of excellence and favourability, pressure and intimidation of universities against academics due to lack of autonomy, rights violations against students, rights violations against students, accession of power through the rectory, subcontractorization practices of university employees, a bigger problem that can be extended to private capitalist universities. In addition to the current problem areas, the situation in which the universities are entered into when the algebraic applications are added under the name, is striking in terms of the depth of the chasm that we've been dragged as a society. Dear lawmakers, in this period of time called the age of knowledge, we are going through a process in Turkey where universities and academics are subjected to intense pressures representing political power and the understanding of a sovereign state, where freedom of expression, which is essential, is blocked by the harshest methods. Of course, academic freedom is the key concept to focus on when it comes to university. Academic freedom is a fundamental indicator of the freedom of academic or scientist to express their thoughts and work. It is so that professors are free to be able to develop new proposals, doctrines, opinions that may be conflicted with sovereign understandings, without being in danger of losing their jobs and being punished in arbitrary forms. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to first give you some examples of how academic freedom is understood on a universal scale. For example, UNESCO defines academic freedom as the ability of the academic community to conduct scientific research in their own opinion without being dependent on other people's political, philosophical, beliefs and ideas. In UNESCO's recommendation on the status of higher education staff in November 1997, academic freedom of speech, freedom to discuss without limiting its leadership, freedom to study, conduct and publish its results, and freedom to freely express its views on the institution or system they work for. In the context of the European Union, the European Union, which became binding in 2009, has made clear the concept of academic freedom, guaranteeing that freedom. The article titled "Freedom of Science and Art" of the EU Basic Rights (EU) has been specifically highlighted as the link between freedom of thought in Article 10 of the text and freedom of expression in Article 11 of the text. The concept of academic freedom is also central to the activities of the Council of Europe. As a matter of fact, the recommendation taken by the European Committee of Ministers in 2000, stressing the importance of academic freedom, was considered the basic need of every democratic society to work to strengthen academic freedom and university autonomy by the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in 2006. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, of course, are ashamed of the autonomy of universities and academic freedoms in Turkey's privacy, both on legal, constitutional ground and in practice. Of course, on a universal scale, in the modern world, and in our country, I believe that the government has followed, as well as our fellow lawmakers from other parties, as well as our fellow lawmakers from the ruling party, the level of the gap in the autonomy and freedom of universities and academics. Of course, one of the most important problems here is why we signed as a country for many contracts based on universally qualified human rights and freedom of expression, but why we didn't fulfill the requirements of these signatures. Of course, our cumbersome and lazyness distances us from the modern world more and more of the universal principles. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, look, in the first 500 universities in the world, Turkey's five universities are barely available, and one of them is the University of Bosphorus. I'd like to point out that in just one of hundreds of examples, there's been an election at the University of Bosporus for a chancellor at our university, which has managed to get into the top 500 universities in the world. Professor Dr. Gülay Barbarosoglu, who won the election with 86 per cent of the vote, was elected chancellor, but a person who didn't even participate in the election was appointed president by the President. Then a more severe practice took place, and the chancellor's elections were wiped out to cover all universities. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, look, when we consider all of Europe today, I'm afraid Turkey is the only country where university boards are determined by the appointment of university presidents without a choice. Now, I'd like to ask the government: We have won the single country title in Europe, which directly appoints the rectors and does not have a president's choice. How will this title contribute to our country, science and humanity? How can universities think freely and produce qualified information that are not even allowed to function in a minimum democratic way by power? Dear lawmakers, what the AKP government understands from the university budget is just building a university building, unfortunately, and the inside of university buildings lack quality. We have to stop importing gas flares to shoot at our young people and work for universities with a worldwide reputation that can produce scientific knowledge. I'm afraid we can't offer our young people a free, qualified university. Every day, we condemn our poorer people to private universities that work for unlimited profit. We can't offer jobs to our college-educated young people. We all see where the unemployment figures are coming from. We have a very young, as young, as unemployed as he is, but unfortunately we don't have a program or policy on that. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are asked to be led by the trustee's logic of the universities in Turkey, where we are today. The work of thousands of academics has been terminated by judicial decrees. More than a thousand academics have been declared guilty of demanding peace in the country, have been asked to be intimidated by detention and arrests, hundreds have been forced to defect abroad, but we have to draw the bottom in bold lines that the academic struggle against all kinds of ruling centers is a measure that exceeds the freedom of the profession in this respect. The struggle of academics is a necessary attitude for the development of science, a requirement for academic morality, a requirement for academic responsibility to society. In this regard, the academic has no right to remain silent. I'd like to make a point about the roles of esteemed lawmakers, universities and academics in law and constitutional production processes. A secret discussion between the two parties and behind closed doors has been held and the text has been presented to parliament. Even the way the negotiations are conducted is against the spirit of the constitution. The Constitution is the basic legal text that is expected to ensure these rights, including all the different social areas living in the country, which aim to limit state power, expand human rights and freedoms. Of course, it is possible that a constitution can embrace the entire community with the active participation of representatives of all segments of society. As we have seen today, a constitution was made without participation in the third party of the main opposition party or the People's Democratic Party, Turkey. I believe that this constitution will never meet the needs of Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0074par0073	Thank you, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0075par0074	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0074par0075	Here, I'll give you a minute according to the Civil Code 60.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0075par0078	Thank you for your promise, Mr. President. Yes, Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the constitutional work of the two parties behind closed doors is contrary to the Constitution's spirit. I have made a pledge on behalf of our party group. The constitution has been made, done, and is not finished. A technical study is first presented to the Turkish Grand National Assembly, then to the commission, then to the General Assembly process. If it's to be done, it'll be done from now on. If there's criticism, if there's opposition, if there's a common opinion, there's going to be some change here, there's going to be new additions, the ground of discussion is just beginning. Therefore, work behind closed doors on behalf of our party group. I reject the expression. And I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0074par0080	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Ministry of National Education for Central Management in 2015 1) The Board of Higher Education 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2017 is the chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) The Head of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2015 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account 2015 1) Sports General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Higher Education Loans and Homes Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Higher Education Credit and Homes Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2015 Central Management Final Account EPISODE AND KADISTRO GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2015 In turn, Ankara MP Sırrı Süzeyya Çaş is appointed to take the lead. Here you are, Mr. Commander. Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0076par0115	Mr. President, dear friends, on a day like this, I'd like to make a technical review of the political polemic boundaries or the Ministry budget, and say a few words about these difficult days that we're just going through, since it's not going to be appropriate for today's heavy and the weather that we need to figure out as soon as possible. First of all, I wish that Mevlit Kandili would lead to peace and good deeds. We pray for God's mercy to all our citizens, both the police and civilians, who have lost their lives, who have lost their lives, who have endured their relatives, and who have been injured. No matter where it came from, no matter what hand it came from, we condemned this attack with a statement issued by our party in the early hours of the day, and I repeat it here. It's like a poem by Akif. Akif was not our inspired poet who could write poetry, but he was one of those who founded his poem like an equation. There's only one line he's ever written that interferes with in his entire life. Later, the patient added it to his reasoning. But when a friend, a friend, whose life is suffering, whose struggles are buried in the ground, that moment is an inspired verse, I'd like to start by reminding him of that: Would such a disaster be the end of so many generations? If someone had said that before, I wouldn't waste my life working like crazy. I would not sacrifice that past to this future! It is defined as a burial place, meaning the house or the place where the silencers are together. Among many things, those who die for the people who believe in the times are silent first, and there are no more laws of speech about this country, about daily hardship, about the future, and wherever you look at it, the most common thing about these deaths is that they have young deaths, our young ones are always gone, our future is always going in this sense. That's why we need to put a new language, a new style, a new content as soon as possible. Why? I've reached 60 years of age, we've knocked over 50, and I've done the parody of it in my film as long as I can remember -- and I've been ringing in your ears all the time, and you've been saying that these are the days when we need national unity and unity the most -- the need for unity and unity in this country that we need from my first youth to this day. There must be a problem here. This paradigm isn't enough to cover all this progress. I've highlighted it on different occasions here, the republic is the name of the intersection of an opportunity and obligation, and it's given this country an advance of about a hundred years. Against what? It was the will to build a new republic, to exist, to survive. This feeling, when that concept of us was singled out, our need for this national unity and unity increased to that degree. The more we singled it out, the more unity and tie speech cooked up like a grizzly on our necks. E's not working, there's something wrong with this. There won't be a war that lasts 40 years, there won't be a destabilization that lasts 40 years, not with the same argument that can't be defended with this same argument. So -- Mr. Beştaş just told us that from here, our greatest mission falls to us. Indeed, in this country, trade has taken initiative from industrial rooms to NGOs, military to state institutions, government to foreign embassies and countries, the only institution not taking initiative was the Turkish Grand National Assembly. In the name of solution and negotiation, we have made it a motto for democratization, the number of lawmakers who have refused was 34. With 34 rejections, we accepted this as Parliament, but even as we looked at it as budget talks, almost 134 MPs developed a language that was covered in total rejections of the text, its purposes, its motives and its extensions. From time to time, we've tried to run a parliamentary general meeting, a mechanism, in matters that concern our young people and our future. Even that's a face-blowing number for all of us, and not in context, but in self-inflicted terms. The understanding that starts with the search commissions, the search commissions, the debates, the debates, until we solve this, against such a elective, voting problem, that starts with the academia, about civil society's ideas, about their proposals, about their contributions, and rejects each and every request for contributions as categorical is only due to the growth of the war, the development of everyday life, and the fact that every day, every day, every day, a impact mechanic that is triggered by chaos in this country, has been recreated by chaos. Now, there's no harm in the Supreme Assembly knowing that we, friends of the 4 political parties, are preparing a joint statement against this development, we're in search of it. I think we can start here. Everyone, everyone has a political perspective, and it's very natural, and everyone has a way of interpreting things, but we can start by saying that we will all come together against the mechanics in this country that we can reject, that we can continue with this impact mechanic, that we will always be a dynamic, that we will not use a polarizing, hostile, segregating language. We haven't gotten very far yet, but when everyone approaches with a sense of a party statement, we're reversing the fact that these four parties, or all of the Assembly, have been able to come together.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0077par0125	There's blood all over the place, and you're still talking about the manifesto and that! A lot of lives are gone!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0076par0126	And then there's the approach.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0077par0127	Is that an approach?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0078par0128	Let's not interfere, lawmakers. Please...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0076par0129	That's the summation of what I've said so far. That's a way of thinking. Don't think like that, it's not much of a conviction.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0079par0131	You're trying to be subtle, you're trying to make a point.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0080par0132	Please, Congressmans, please... Mr. Commander, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0081par0134	Every lost, lost life in this country is a failure to our total existence. None of us are one step behind in the idea of heart and conscience. Congressman, what we're trying to say is that this has to be another mechanic and another solution. We don't need much proof of that, but the fact that we haven't dealt with it in 40 years is clear and sufficient evidence. You can say that you think it's good for your soul, we can say it's good for ours, but on top of that, it looks like it needs an approach. This, this approach of yours, will only prevent these quests, if there is such an opportunity. However, the worst form of peace -- not necessarily called good -- is better than war, regardless of its name or shape. It's our lives that are gone. So, we can start here, this Congress can improve initiative, have the will to have its own signature on time. After that, we can renege on one law, bylaws, bylaws, which are not fed by regulations, by current means. Against these attacks that will strengthen us, the most already protected armor in the history of the world is the democratic armor that has been found by this acquish since ancient history. The expansion of the democratic field, the country -- I said in the beginning -- that we should not return to the tomb of a Haman, that we should not fear him, that we should not fear him, that we should not fear him who speaks, that we should not fear him who is organized, that we should not be afraid of him, that he may be organized, that he may be able to do so. Silence means death. We need to make room for... Freedom unites and expands, bans divides. We don't have the luxury of experiencing them all over again; we don't have these resources, we don't have this time. There's only one thing that can't be rebuilt, duplicated, faked, and time and it's slipping away. For him, it's an Anatolian expression, the heart won't cool by cutting a watermelon. We, at least, have the responsibility to do, to do something about it and beyond that. That's what I want to emphasize. I hope he finds a response. I want to remind you again that we would be honored to contribute to everything that's going to develop this form, that we are the cause of our existence. As we salute the entire House, I promise to have mercy on all the lives we've lost and hope to make up for it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0082par0137	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the last speaker is Mud MP Ahmet Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0083par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I too, yesterday, as we call it, deny and condemn the attack on Istanbul, which covers all parts of Turkey, and wish God's mercy to all those who have lost their lives in this attack. Again, on a very saintly and blessed day, we realize such pain. I wish that Mevlit Kandili would bring peace, peace, and a bright future to this country, as well as to the Islamic world and to all people. Yeah, we're burning up inside, and we're really burning up because we're stuck here on some kind of agenda. We walk in this country without looking at the way they die, the way they live, the way they live, the way they're happy, the way they punish. Albert Camus says in his promise: "If you want to get to know a country, see how the deaths in that country happen so cheaply, dear friends, death is so cheap, life is so cheap in this country, and let's just say that on that promise of Albert Camus, I had prepared it for friends -- I was thinking of taking it out here -- and I really didn't -- it was the suggestion of our friends, and it was the suggestion of how to look at the media and newspapers of those forms of death. Yesterday, the explosion, you know, happened long before the newspapers of the central media came under pressure, and we were sad to get the news of the wounded, then the death, but today our friends had prepared a cardboarded version of the 12 newspapers in a single large photograph, and as a member of this country, I was ashamed of the headlines of this legislature, and I was ashamed of the newspaper headlines. I was ashamed of the headline of the Presidential System, the Great Revolution. In just two articles of the 12 newspapers, three of them had been blown up yesterday with small puntos. That's our reality. The fact that we're stuck on artificial agendas lies right here. I've made a commitment to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, and before you pass it on to him, I'd like to share with you a small portion of a generation by Ali Shariati, which Ali Sharia wrote for the martyrs of Kerbala on an anniversary, dear friends. Ali Shariati sings for those who testify in Kerbela: "My brothers, now the martyrs are dead, and the dead are alive. The martyrs said what they were going to say, and we were called to the deaf. Those who had the courage to choose death are gone, and we shamelessly stayed. Lord Hussein, the symbol of the world's glory, the symbol of lowness, should laugh as much as we would cry for the Lord Zeynep. Today the martyrs have announced their call with their own blood. Throughout history, they lay their eyes on the ground, calling the inhabitants to revolt. My God, what wisdom is this? Those of us who swim in the filth and swamps of our brutal daily life, the women, men and children, who have been proven in Kerbala, in God's sight, cry out for us again. Dear lawmakers, let's say that nothing is healthy in a country where there is no justice, where there is no healthy distribution. And let's just say that in Turkey, a special law is based on the unhappiness of the masses of law for individuals and communities. Yes, we're implementing the most important law a country can do in a year, the 2017 central management budget and the law of this. In this law, we have everything to live for a year: education, health, transportation, urbanization, environment, justice, democracy, everything in this law. And we're negotiating the 2017 budget. But come on, let's just say that our agenda isn't a coup, it's the shadow of the coups, it's the law of the most important budget of a year. And let's just say that's not our agenda, because as long as we don't get justice in this country, as long as we don't want justice in the same way for 80 million people, as long as we build happiness of happy minorities on unhappy majority, 80 million people will not have the same sense of belonging and ownership in this country. Dear friends, look, in addition to all of this, let's talk about that constitutional package that was presented to the Speaker of Parliament last night and decorated the headlines of the newspapers today: Now, this Parliament will probably meet at the Constitutional Commission in a week's time, and will bring that constitutional package change to parliament in a predictable time. We don't know if it'll pass or not, but I'd like to point out for all of you: is it possible that these 10 people have been able to vote or not, as we've been referring to as taking hostages from our hostage, from the days since, with the ten missing legislatures? Because no group can decide on constitutional amendments, each individual vote on or all of them by its own opinion. Can these 10 people vote or not? Maybe he'll stay in 328. Maybe one or two of those who weren't here were going to vote in the direction of the group. Now, will these friends who have the same rights as us be able to vote or not to vote for this amendment to regime change in this country? We're asking.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0084par0150	He won't be able to use it.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0083par0151	See, that's a confession. That's exactly what we've been saying for days. He won't be able to use it. Isn't that right, Mr. Ali?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0084par0152	He's under arrest, he won't be able to use it. The prisoner can't use it.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0083par0153	They won't be able to use it because they took it. We don't know if it's a judgment. There are objections, and they can leave here with a different decision. They won't be able to use it. That's exactly what we've been saying. You're the one who took it, you're the one who held it hostage. I hate to break it to you, but that's what this sentence means.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0084par0154	You don't say! How do you know?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0083par0155	If you had asked me, if the judgment had been independent, we would have known the judgment. He's waiting for an application at the Constitutional Court. The courts that held them hostage, the political courts, are waiting for the appeals files. Now, my dear friends, look, other than those hostage-taking policies, there's a special law against them in prison. Our Co-Chair, Dear Figen Yüksekdağ Kandira No. 1. He's in a one-man cell in Lu Type F Prison. All international human rights contracts state that a single cell can be used as a torture. Come on, you're a lawyer, Mr. Ali, and you've probably visited clients in prison.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0084par0157	Very.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0083par0158	Not enough, he hasn't been able to exchange notes with his lawyer since November 16th about the case. Yes, I thought you said he arrested a neutral independent judge. They're staying there, we're expressing it as a hostage. Another is asking the House for a fax number. The fax number of the coven he wrote on his hand is being deleted because they won't allow him to exchange notes. Now, that's fascism, that's what we call fascism. It's not enough, see, in a one-man cell, attorney interviews are unhealthy; another, the entire block of our co-chair has been evacuated, Figen Hanım. It's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough that he's been asked to take off his shoe -- look at the arrogance -- when he's in the infirmary and in the interview. That's hostage policy, that's hostage policy. That's what Guantanamo was like, Naci Hajji. Look, it's the same... think about it. Whatever's put in front of him, it's done. Another, let's just say... is Mr. Gültan Kışanak, Mr. DBP Co-Chair Sebahat Tuncel, KJA Speaker Ayla Akat, different from Mr. Gültan Kışanak? No. There's actually a direction to women's will here. Now, my dear friends, let me make a brief statement to you about the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. Mr. Secretary, you've been on the job for about six months, maybe a little longer, so good luck. While the previous Ministry of Environment and Urbanism budget was being discussed, the Minister before you -- during the full budget talks there were conflicts in Tyre, Cizre, Hakkari, Şırnak, and Silvio -- we planned all of them. You'll see, before the next winter, the cities there will be built. You couldn't even build a tent, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0085par0161	That's what you think.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0083par0162	We're coming from there, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0085par0163	Where do you come from?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0083par0164	We haven't been here for two days, we're from Şırnak, and I'll tell you in a minute, so take a note and answer. If it's slander, it's slander. Şırnaks can't find their personal belongings who want to go into the destroyed buildings and get their personal belongings out of the buildings. And our hearing, you say no, Mr. Secretary, in exchange for taking the contents of it, the destruction of it has been tendered. When we opened up your mayors, Mr. Secretary, I hope your political life will continue to rise, but we know very well that when you were Mayor of Melikşah in 1998, Mr. Şükrü Karate, the mayor of your province, was suspended by the decrees of the 28 February coupgers, and you were partially elected in his place in a democratic way, which is true. Just as Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan chose Ali Mufit Gürtuna, the council of İstanbul's Parliament after his release from İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality by February 28th. But it doesn't work like that now, you know, Mr. Secretary? Now, make the coupgers read mercy and move with a blow. The trustees are appointed, and not enough -- as in the district of Ozalp, of Van. The trustee is appointed to the trustee. Imagine, the trustee is appointed to the trustee in the district of Özalp, Van. Even the 28th Februaryers didn't do that, Mr. Secretary. In fact, as far as environmentalism is concerned, you might say: "There was a ditch, a barricade, and it was destroyed for him -- this bag that we discussed last year -- the 80th article in the 411th law -- which closed the judicial path has been made." Well, I'm telling you from the sentence of Prime Minister Davutoglu. I'm not commenting on a word. Another is, look, something that you've closed the judicial path to objecting to the laws of the Constitution in Article 125. However, Article 125 of the Constitution states: "The way of justice is clear against all actions and procedures of the administration. " Can you now say, can you claim that a law is above the Constitution's ruling? Another, Mr. Secretary, let's say that on November 6th, we can't move on to the material about the question of whether or not we should come to the Parliament for two weeks: outside-of-the-day talks, outside-of-the-day motions. They do it, and they do it, and they commit their indecency. Even passing the law in one day can be difficult. You say that. Now, shall we not use the Constitutional Charter of the Assembly, or make a motion to question it? How can the opposition characterise a prepared law or a relevant Constitutional clause? The form he can bring is clear; he will criticize, make his proposal, make a question motion. I'll be honest with you, this is the kind of conduct that's even more uncomfortable than that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to say that there's not much chance of saving this country from a coup, but it will serve nothing but to produce new coups. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0086par0170	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0087par0171	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0086par0172	Mr. Bostanci...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0087par0173	As the speaker conducts the speech on the stand, you have already arrested these MPs, who have come up with a political conclusion that a representative from within our group, who is essentially a lawyer, has expressed a legal assessment, which we do not deserve to have a relationship between politics and law.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0086par0174	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0087par0175	In this frame, I speak for the group.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0086par0176	I promise not to pick on you for two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0087par0180	Mr. President, dear friends, the House has a responsibility to the arrested MPs. This responsibility is to remove immunity under the Constitutional Amendment and pave the way for trial. Beyond that, the background relations of Parliament or the ruling group in Parliament about what the judiciary is going to do are not an obligation. You may have objections to the functioning of the law, you may say that the law is wrong, but the constant claim that law is under political pressure by the government is essentially to put prosecutors and courts under different political pressure, you have to make decisions in a way that we hope and expect. You have to make decisions in the way that we hope, and I'd like to underline that, let law do its own work. What our deputy says is a legal debate, not a political attitude. Now, as you know, Parliament Speaker, what is the status of these arrested MPs on legislative activities, he's doing a study on that, and once this is done, it will be clear. We may have differing opinions on this issue, but as a result, the Parliamentary presidency will likely open the way with a final decision on how to deal with this on a course; whether they agree or not they can participate, we must wait for the outcome of this work. On the other hand, Mr. Yıldırım referred to some newspapers here. They came out with the presidential headline, but there was an incident. They put the presidency ahead of everything. When I say, I regret your approach to us as if you're giving us the final tender as if you're doing a review of the newspapers, because a lot of those newspapers know the press, they publish it around eight or nine. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Basically, the issue of how many martyrs was understood only after midnight because of the bans. No situation is worth more than human life, but of course there will be political debates. It's also a wrong habit to use certain dramatic events as a judgment over political debates. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0088par0188	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0089par0189	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0088par0190	Mr. Lightning, let's finish this side, and then we'll get back to you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0090par0191	Mr. President, since he specifically named me by name, I'd like to speak in accordance with Article 69. It should be on the record because history is being made, and we need to make a note of it.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0088par0192	Here, I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0091par0197	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, the bottom line is that if a criminal investigation is carried out in accordance with the constitution, and it becomes an MP, and under Article 83 of the Constitution, if immunity is removed, the next part of this is a full judicial process; we all have to respect whatever decision the court makes. If he has made a decision to make an arrest, a part of the person's rights and freedoms will be restricted in the section concerning the execution of sentences 5275 and the execution of security measures under the law. This constraint... is found in prison during the execution of the sentence. There is no question that a person in prison, even if he is a member of this parliament, will come to the General Assembly and vote. However, it is entirely in the jurisdiction to remove arrest and arrest. Whatever the verdict is, we're all in charge of our heads. However, the court has made a decision today, and this decision is in order to arrest, and the prisoner cannot exercise his right. That's the essence of what we're saying. Other than that, sir, we have confessed, a political decision has been made, taken hostage... the decision is made by the Turkish court; the decision is made by the Turkish court. We all have to obey and respect this court. 30, 40 lives will be lost, people will be torn to pieces, we'll have many martyrs, we'll come, you'll mock our minds here! There's no such thing. This saint nation sees all of us, sees everything and writes everything down, and history takes notes. Therefore, as long as he's under arrest, everyone will suffer the consequences. I wanted to explain on this occasion. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0088par0200	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0092par0201	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0088par0202	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0092par0203	Mr. Bostanci claimed that I made a speech to impress judges and prosecutors. I want to talk about bullying according to the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0088par0204	Here you go. Make it last, please, a new...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0093par0206	Mr. President, I want word on behalf of the group.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0088par0207	This has nothing to do with you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0093par0208	Our whole group...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0088par0209	No, as for Mr. Yıldırım's speech... Here you go, Mr. Lightning. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0094par0213	Thank you. Now, dear friends, there's a famous story, God, when a envious man calls for more than himself. Okay, my servant, I'll give you what you want, but I'll give you double what you want. He says, "Take out my eye." Now, we will shout out to the end that political power blinds Turkey in democratic ways, in elections, in politics, in June 7th and November 1st, in order to imprison the HDP, whom it cannot leave under the dam. My predecessor, the Constitution, says the immunity has been lifted according to 83. He still doesn't even know the change made as a lawyer. Immunity hasn't been lifted, they still have immunity; it's just that they're being prosecuted for their rights.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0095par0216	He's not going to read ignorance. You'll see and find out.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0094par0217	Look, here, read the transcripts. You don't even know what you're saying.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0095par0218	Open it, read it. The immunity from that verb is lifted, the other part goes on. The immunity from that part will be lifted. You know it's missing.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0094par0219	In other words, Mr. Naci Hajji, I'll tell you: Mr. Erdoğan, Mr. Buli Yıldırım, Parliament Speaker Mr. İsmail Kahraman or one of the members of the group, you can shut up. If you can take it through such a phony courtroom, you can take it, we won't. We feel what you're going to feel in the event of these arrests. You may have just locked yourself between the concrete and the four walls of Parliament, life isn't just here.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0096par0220	Know your place, your place!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0094par0221	We never agreed to this hostage situation, this theater of judgment, politicalization, or anything else. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0097par0223	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0098par0224	It's obvious who was arrested for what. Know your place!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0094par0225	You know your place. Get out, talk from there.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0098par0226	Know your place, don't talk. I talk everywhere.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0099par0227	Congressmans, please, I'll invite the speaker. 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Ministry of National Education for Central Management in 2015 1) The Board of Higher Education 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2017 is the chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) The Head of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2015 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account 2015 1) Sports General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Higher Education Loans and Homes Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Higher Education Credit and Homes Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2015 Central Management Final Account EPISODE AND KADISTRO GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2015 Now it's time for the nationalist movement group. The first statement on behalf of the National Movement Party Group is from Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu. Here you go, Mr. Topcu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0100par0264	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, we're very sorry today. It's been going on for a long time, but it's been really breaking hearts since yesterday. We ask God's mercy to our brothers who were killed in the terrorist act in Istanbul yesterday, and to their families and to the Turkish nation, and to our wounded brothers and sisters, we pray for healings from Cenab. At the same time today, you know, we are celebrating our presence in the world of the Prophet, who was sent as a mercy to the world, Mevlit Kandili. I hope it's a blessing. But we also have one wish: in this blessed Mevlit Kandili, we have God's blessing to destroy the enemies of Turkey and Turkey, and that he will not give the people who have been robbed of this terror again. Yeah, well, we're not really doing anything today, which is where the word ends, but we have to say something here. We're here on the stand for the budget, especially for the budget of the Ministry of National Education. So, in general, we're going to talk about problems, and we're going to express our views as the National Movement Party on what to do. There is one issue in the budget that the Justice and Development Party has always brought up when it comes to national education. We give the highest share of the budget to national education." he said: "O my people! Now, because this is really a positive development, we've always made these shares when we're on this stand, and you can look at these. But from here, we specifically want to point out that money isn't everything. You can make schools, you can make classes, I don't know, you can complete a lot of infrastructure, but after you don't raise teachers and administrators who are going to do this training around here, who are going to feed the human element, and then you're going to have a lot of problems after that. And then you say, "Well, actually, we were at PISA, but here's where Finland dropped it, and we're actually successful. What do we do with our way of looking for success from somewhere, this time we burn in the heat of it?" And by the way, especially when the Ministry of National Education is constantly choosing to patch and look ideologically instead of the holistic way of looking at the system, but on the other hand, we see that the values are upside down, and we see that the values are going upside down. Especially in the practices of children and young people, and what they need to have, we see that a lot of unwanted behavior is coming up. Today, on the news, four of our daughters -- under 18 -- are attempting suicide in the foster home. I wonder why. Do we remember ignoring the values? Can we remember that we really don't care about our children? Can we see that drugs are particularly high in schools and young people? Can we see the abuse of children and the abuse and abuse of young people rising? Do we ever go beyond statistical numbers and remember how much each child is worth? I want to talk about a little something right here. National Education has really started to make mistakes over and over and over with a geometric increase, and the expression is: "There are 1.5 million students taking tests, what happens if there are a few people making mistakes?" We don't accept them. The most valuable asset in a country is the human element, especially the children and the young. I'd like to share with you a very small example and move on to something else. This recent TEOG exam was cancelled because eight students were not put in the same package. These children will be retested, and each time, we will remove every Minister's examination, and he will again confront these children with more test marathons and practices. But we see that this youth still doesn't count on the future of these children. What's the matter, dear? Let him take another test! I mean, you have to look empathic. As each test takes away a lot of things from the child, what do we do with the error of the system there, the mistakes of the appliances there, and what do we do with these children? The government doesn't create problems, the government solves problems, but we can also see that you've always insisted on creating problems. When we look at the spending by educational levels, it's increasing, but we can still see that it's much lower than the OECD averages. When we look at the spending per student in elementary school, secondary school, high school, and higher education, we see that the averages are up by 4.4, but when we give them in dollars, we can see that the OECD averages are almost 10.5. And again, we want to give you: especially when we look at bilateral schools, we say that 20 percent of primary schools, 19 percent of secondary schools, and 11 percent of secondary schools are bilateral. But when we look at student ratios, almost 51 percent of primary school students teach binary. Look, when we look at it as a building, we see that it's much smaller, and we look at it as student ratios, we can see that it's 51 percent. We need to be careful as soon as possible. And again, we're also saying that it's not going to make sense with just the school and the downloading of information. Again, according to their statistics, we also say that children like the National Education, the Gym, the Library, the activities that contribute to both physical and mental development, can and will not respond to the needs. The percentage of schools that have gyms is 8%. The number of schools with libraries is 39 percent. This kid needs to be questioned again, where he's going to win his book reading habits, how he's going to win, how he's going to win. And again, especially the fact that pre-school education rates are now mandatory from next year shows us how incomplete these numbers are. As I continue to continue these criticisms, I share with you the statements of a minister who is one of the 6 national education ministers, who is talking about the national education system in his column, and he says: "We are last in the PlSA and TIMSS exams." We are far behind in education-quality human strength and human development indexes, and how can we put this together? And he gives advice, and what difference does it make to change the curriculum? At the moment, again, the Ministry of National Education is going to change the curriculum, asking aloud, "What will it change?" Now, according to the average OECD countries, and much less than anyone else, we're looking at less lessons than OECD countries. In terms of mathematics, we study a hundred and ninety-eight hours less than the average OECD countries, but in terms of lesson content, Singapore is given twice as much. According to this, we're missing six hundred and eighty hours of lessons from other OECD countries as lesson hours. We received this from the writings of a person who had made it especially for the Ministry of National Education in AKP power, and we'd like to share them with you. The last sentence is: "Not the quality and quantity of teaching, but the system set by the curriculum, free, innovative, but also capable and wise, and the teacher who is focused on raising the curriculum, not on child-based methods, cannot raise the level of education." Yes, we also say that a system that sees our teachers as a means of raising the curriculum can't be expected to succeed very much. And we point out from here that it is time for the Ministry of National Education to turn to reality instead of dealing with the national educational bureaucracy and the surreal fantasies of power. Fourteen years of national education, you've always been dealing with surreal fantasies, so get back to reality. And when we look at the final exams, everyone has told us what number of our students are in line, but when we move from there, we say that we need to raise students with skills, certain qualities, certain qualities, and we need to raise young people. So what we're saying is, we're going to have to put our hat back on, and we're going to have to go over it from a holistic perspective to see where we're going wrong. Let's stop looking for criminals. Okay, everybody blames each other. This criminal... Here, school administrators blame teachers, parents blame the system, or political parties blame them, but we say that, especially when we're going through a very difficult time, please give voice to the warnings of the opposition these days. We've warned the Justice and Development Party here for years, but it still hasn't been heard, and we'd like to share the fact that things are being looked at from an ideological and partisan attitude. There's no need to go to the PISA results. Mr. Secretary, I specifically repeat, let's look at the averages in the YGS. We average 40 questions in Turkish class -- 2016 average -- 19.3, 7.9 in math, 10.7 in social sciences, 4.6 in science. When we tried to evaluate PISA from these results, it was very clear in advance that this would be the result when we evaluated the PISA results, because you're constantly changing parts of the system, so let's do this, and we can't do that... we're just trying to increase the administrator's position, or, you know, get the school audits here, open the dorms. Here, let these look, and let's give them the opportunity to open up their homes. This will not go with the categorized minds. We'd like to share these in particular. If you look at the lessons under TEOG, you can also see that the math class is a grade of 1, science of science of 2 and Turkish is a 3. So, when we look at it, it means that more and more, with the PISA results... if we go with this mentality, we're going to be very upset about these consequences. We'd like to give you these as well. Of course, the international criteria are important to see how much progress we're making compared to these. So, what we're saying is that when you look at the scale of the international student success testing score, especially the development of developing countries, we can see that there's a proportional relationship between the informal domestic product. So the countries that are successful in international indexes also have a high GDP. Then if we want the economy to go well, we need to focus on education. If we want terrorism to end, we really need to come up with a solution, and we need to focus on education in many areas if we want values to grow back into the spirit, tradition, and value of the Turkish Islamic world. When you look at UNESCO's Atlas of Okumory, we can see that over 7 million people in Turkey cannot read and write, and again, when we look at the Global Innovation Index 2016, we can say that Turkey is 42°rd. When we look at high-tech exports, we can also say that Turkey is in the lower ranks with $2.3 billion. In the industrial design application ranking -- 2016 data all the time -- we can say that it wasn't in the first 10 percent. Markings are not in the first 12 degrees. Again, when you look at the world universities' ranking, there are some times when one university enters the first 300, but when you look at the first 500, you can see a few of our universities. Indeed, it is my heart's desire that all of our universities produce added value and contribute to the development and development of this country and be in important places in the world's ranking. Of course, here, the most important thing to do is to raise teachers, but when we look at training teachers, we can see that there are still patches that we've always expressed just now -- and that the importance is not given. Now, when we look at the 2015-2019 Strategy Plan, we can still see the paid teaching column opening. There is no contract for teaching, and we can also see that there is a strategy plan for paying teaching, even though we repeated from here that there is no contract teacher. It's really insulting, something that can really be expressed as a disgrace. This needs to be eliminated as soon as possible. Let's get this straight. In 2015, 417,480 teacher candidates take the KPSS education sciences exam. The number of education schools is 92, and the number of students currently studying at the education school is 217,000, and the quota is 46,000 per year. But we see that the education system is constantly being used to populist policies, and we've still opened universities every year, with quotas increased and alternative solution proposals not developed. Of course we'll have universities, but colleges that can come up with solutions. When those kids graduate, let each of them be in a position to produce value in a field. The heart wants to share in this way, where we go, where we go, where we have Saint Sancars, where we have Veterans, but we also want to share that their numbers are small enough to be counted by fingers. Open School of Teaching... we've been saying for years, let's not send these kids to open school. Let them swallow the dust of that education in the classrooms themselves, swallow the dust of the classrooms, the chalk, communicate with each other, socialize, get together with the teachers. But we see that, again, when we look at a union report, 1,536,000 students are still registered at Open Teaching High School. But we don't know the outcome of all of this, and we say... I want to give you the title that the Syndicate uses here: is it a failing student warehouse? Now, the last one, you know, you've had a meeting in Antalya, where you emphasise education as a matter of country, but we've seen that vocational students have been pushed. Look, back in the day, they were students who ranked imam-gay students, but now we see that you've destroyed all the vocational training and all the whole place just because we're going to be imam-gathering. I mean, you're taking students, but you've lowered the quality of imam-nephews. We, again, want those imam-hakids and other high-schoolers to be made of quality. They're way below average in college exams, all vocational education and imam-haters. Now we're saying, "That's enough. This country is ours. Our hearts are hurt. We need to find a solution as soon as possible. The starting point of this solution from now on is national education. That's why we called you back from here. We thank you, we pay our respects.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0101par0287	Thank you, Mr. Topcu. It is now up to Adana MP Mevlüt Karakaya. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya. Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0102par0291	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I begin my words, I salute your grand delegation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm in a state of surprise. Today there are 38 martyrs, and the address shows Kandil. Those who shed blood on the night of the kandil should know that the Turkish national state will also oppress them, and will plant the Turkish flag on Kandil.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0103par0293	Be there, Hajji.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0102par0294	We also follow the irony of those who cannot distance themselves from the kandil and who have aided and abetted them. Those who can't stand up to the Turkish state are resorting to outrageous, treacherous ways. That's how it was yesterday, and that's how it is today. Those who resorted to inhuman methods in Kabul, Karabağ, Baghdad, Damascus showed their bloody faces in Istanbul, and afflicted our nation. Cursed be those who commit atrocities against Istanbul, which was conquered by the good news of the birth of our beloved Prophet, who was sent as a mercy to all the worlds! I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Turkey will fight to protect its own existence, defend its legitimate rights until the end of the day, never return this way, never submit to the oppressor. The Nationalist Movement Party will continue to make every sacrifice and support any challenge in this way, as it has been so far, to defeat persecution, to account for the slaughter, to make our state strong, to ensure unity and unity. On this occasion, I ask the Lord God to have mercy on all of our martyrs who have lost their lives in this treacherous attack, and for their families to mourn, and for our wounded to be healed. I'm saying I'm sorry for the loss of our saint and necipe nation. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group in 2017 concerning the National Education Ministry, the Higher Education Board, the universities and the OSYM. We're discussing the 15th budget of Justice and Development Party rulings. And three days ago, as I said in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting's budget, when the budget bill that we're talking about is under law, we'll give the government $645 billion, the old money, the ability to collect and use 645 quadrillion resources. He will collect 598 quadrillion of this, about 600 quadrillion of it as taxes from the nation, as punishment, as tuition or as other sair revenues, and he will have the authority to borrow as a budget deficit for about 47 quadrillion, which is the difference. Unfortunately, the quality of budget content and figures with the numbers of budgets and budgets that the Justice and Development Party's rulings have brought under this great roof has shown an inverse relationship. The AKP, which came to power at the end of 2002, found its 2003 budget on its lap, bringing its first budget literally in 2004. In this year and in the ongoing years, he continued his transition to the strong economy of the 57th government in 2001, and he was blessed with that for many years. However, in the ongoing years of lack of structural regulation and reforms that should be done after 2007, we can see that in the budget. Of course, the resources collected in modern budgets and taxation are not unrequited. We're asking these questions here in this House under budget, and we're going to ask them today, we're going to question them. However, I would say that the most important thing about the quality of the budget and its content is that it has been reduced to about 30 per cent -- especially after 2007, when the country, its state, its citizen, its farmer, its village, its industrialist, its year-to-year revenues -- which we have spent on the budget. So we're starting to get a lot more out of everybody's cut as a budget. See, in 2002, the government, which collected 22.7 per cent of the total income in those crisis conditions, in the following years, for example, 23.1 per cent in 2010, 23.5 per cent in 2012, 24.3/e in 2014, 25 per cent in 2016, and in the draft that we're discussing today, it's about 25 per cent. Of course, it can be contested, it can be associated with a reduction of public debt, it can be said that budget deficits have been reduced, there are many other things that can be said; we sit down, we discuss it well. We start with privatized public banks, we continue with the privatized public assets, we talk about increasing indirect tax loads and the waste of public resources, which would be good. Speaking of tax burdens, I've come to think of it, again, when the tax load was examined in detail, compared to 2002, there was a significant increase in tax loads. For example, in 2002, $17 of each 100 of the total income was collected as tax, while these numbers are now over $20. Dear lawmakers, of course, when we look at the budgets of the Ministry of National Education, the SEC and the CEC, we are asked to give a total of 111 billion euros; of course we will. As the National Movement Party, I'd like to say that no matter how high the source of education is, we will find it inadequate because we believe that the future of a country is in education in that country. As the National Movement Party, we know that education, the insurance of independence, the only driving force of development, is the sharp yeast of social peace and peace, and that's how we place in our programs. As Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said, education is either a free, independent, glorious, high society, or it leaves a nation in captivity and misery; history is full of its examples. Dear lawmakers, in financial matters, the number of numbers or the size of numbers do not mean anything alone. Numbers or numbers only make sense when they're associated with a mission, a goal or a purpose. Minister, in 2017, this nation will work, work, work, and will give you $5 of each $100 of its income as a budget or, in another way, give you the total $17 of the public resource. We say, "Let's do more." We have no objection to that, but we are eager that some matters be disclosed. The question is, what will you solve in education and what goals will you accomplish? For example, would this have anything to do with the recovery of these research results by the OECD that have actually caused us to bend our necks in the international arena recently? For example, is there going to be any improvement in our recent international student evaluation research, ▪PISA (PISA)? Again, an international evaluation of adult skills... both important, important for development. For example, in the international evaluation of adults' skills, we really, in many categories, collect the last from the last; in some categories we are the first from the last, in some categories we are the second from the last, and in others we are the third. I don't go into their details one by one, but if we can't fix them, I mean, with the nations we're competing with in the world, competing in the global environment, if we can't figure out this preparation, the education of the work, believe me, development is going to be a dream for us. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there is much to say, of course, our time limit, our limitations. I also wanted to say a few words about colleges, but I had to skip and shorten some of it, as time is short. Here's our head of staff here, we've had some talks with them before. Indeed, there are some studies, some model practices that they've done specifically about universities in order to differentiate missions. They mentioned that they had some work for vocational education, that they would definitely share them, that they would share them with the public. We, the National Movement Party, have promised to support any change, any innovation at this point in the rise of the quality of higher education, and I say we will continue to do so. However, I'd like to make a point here. Colleges, of course, are the engine of a society's intellectual display, democratization, modernization, which should be so, but we've been having serious problems with elections in colleges in recent years. The presidential elections -- God forbid -- began in 1992 or in those years -- if I don't remember correctly. At first, there were committees, but then -- God bless you -- Ahmet Necdet Sezer, in a way that was launched during our President's term -- our next presidents continued -- unfortunately, we ended the parliamentary election, the selection of faculty at the university, their own administrators. Now, another thing, another danger, is that we're dealing with student council elections at universities. I'd like to give you an example or two right away. I don't know if Mr. Minister has any information, Mr. Chief of Staff, and I'll make it clear on this occasion that the council elections are being interfered with in many universities. Look, I'll give you a few examples: For example, at the University of Anatolia, there's a directive that can't nominate an open school. It's called an open school, but it's being nominated against direction, it's being manipulated. There is a similar situation at the Mediterranean University. At Süleyman Demirel University, only 12 votes out of 6 faculty in the general election, the objections are not answered. At Erzincan University, someone wins the 14-11 election, but the election is being cancelled and it's being transferred to the Prime Minister. Again, in the same way, the Army University wins 14-13, two weeks later the election is cancelled, a deputy prime minister's advisor is said to have intervened. The situation is the same at the University of Karatay, at the University of Necmettin Erbakan, at the University of Marseilles, at the University of 9 September, and at other universities. I'm sure you'll look into it. I hereby ask that the budget of 2017 be blessed with Turkish education, and I salute your grand delegation again.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0104par0312	Thank you, Mr. Karakaya. Now it's time for the MP Saffet Sandzaklı. Here you go, Mr. Sandzak. Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0105par0316	Mr. President, honorable MPs and the great Turkish nation watching us at the head of television, I salute you all. Of course, today, I was going to say a few words about the Sports Ministry's budget, and I was prepared to, but after that traitorous attack in Istanbul yesterday, we have nothing left to talk about, nor do we have anything left to say. May God have mercy on our fellow martyrs there, and may our wounded brothers recover quickly and join us again. Of course, there will be budget talks, which will be discussed, but from now on, we need to put everything aside and talk about how to end this terror. I also congratulate Mevlit Kandili and Mevlit Kandili of the Turkish and Islamic world. Yeah, I'll tell you a few words about the Sports Department budget. Turkish sports has serious problems, struggling with problems. Turkish sports, so to speak, has become breathless and has reached the edge of the cliff. I've been a congressman for about a year and a half, and I've been offering constant warnings, constructive criticism, and resolution proposals from here, but I'm afraid nothing's changed much. Now, my brother Osman just gave a speech here -- osman, my very old friend -- thanked me in four minutes of five minutes. I don't know what he thanked me for. Now, there are the 2016 Rio Olympics; you know, this 2016 Rio Olympics were held. In the year of the Olympics -- it's done once every four years -- there's a federation election. We've made some suggestions about these federation elections from here. Let's make the nationals a big deal. Let's do it closely, not from next of kin. I said, "Let's do the driver's licenses, not from next of kin." But I can see that it doesn't change much. In these latest Olympics in Rio, if you want to see if a country's sport is successful, you're going to look at the Olympics every four years because the country's overall sports success average is in the Olympics. In 2016, before that, the Olympics in 2012 and 2008 also passed the worst Olympics in our history. Some of the medals received there were, unfortunately, medals received by athletes who were non-native, picking up from other countries. The latest 2016, in the Olympics this year, is why we received less medals from Hungary, Kenya, Jamaica, Croatia, Cuba, New Zelenda, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Colombia, Switzerland, Greece, Denmark, Sweden, South Africa, Ukraine, Serbia, Poland, North Korea, Thailand, Slovakia, Georgia, Azerbaijan and Belarus, which are not even among the countries with a very low population, or if we questioned them, we would have seen it clearly. Of course, let me tell you a little bit about football to be up-to-date and popular. Now, for years, since Mr. Secretary arrived, he's been talking about this football law, talking about how he needs to get out of here as soon as possible, and there's always a draft on the agenda, Mr. Secretary, and I know you're still working on this sports law, but if you don't interfere with the system -- right now you're at the top of it -- you're not going to be able to do much. Imagine a club president today, when the club manager comes to any hypothetical football team, he owes $10 million, he runs it for five years, the debt is $100 million due to bad management, and then he says, "I'm tired now, so let me go, I've spent a lot of time on my kids, and he's not responsible for 90 million dollars. So, who's going to answer for this $90 million? Then what's going on? We have a lot of friends here who are interested in football, Tripolispor, Galatasaray, Fenerbahçe and Beşiktaş, what did they get? Since they failed to participate in the European Cups and failed to comply with the fiscal fair play, they will now face a penalty for deleting points, even a number of fall sentences. Mr. Secretary also knows that every year, we start the UEFA, FIFA, FIFA, FALI FIR-play criteria. He forces us to do so. But this law does not come out of the system in Turkey, from the people who run these clubs, from someone else's pouch, maybe making money, or for other reasons. Do you know today that most of the teams like Fenerbahçe, Galatasaray, Beşiktaş, Tripolispor, and others, the club managers, they know how to manage, especially the money. Well, do you know that in the last two or three years, the Swiss association that's been running world football in our clubs says, "Fenerbahçe, you're going to spend so much this year; that's it, Beşiktas, that's it, that's it. And if you don't, I'll wipe out your score, and I'll take you out of the European cups, and I'll drop you in a cluster. Isn't that a painful fact, my friends? From the great Turkish nation of 80 million people who can't run clubs, the infidel from Switzerland says: "You can't manage, I intervene." That's how much you're going to spend from now on. There's no way it's not going to go to our power. Now, we're always dealing with small, up-to-date issues. For example, for two months, in the three months of Turkey's football and national team debate, why don't we discuss why Turkish football is in the fourth bag? What is the 4th bag, my friends? These European championships and World Cups have bags according to the country's scores. In the 1st bag, countries with the highest marks in the world, according to him, the 2nd bag, according to him, the 4th, with the lowest score in the last bag, Turkey is in the 4th bag. In fact, in the last two months in the statistics, we're the last in the 4th bag, San Marino, Lihtenstain, Luxembourg above us. Now, we're not discussing this, you know what we're discussing? Whether Terim the Conqueror should take Arda, or not take the national team? This is the Turkish national team. He who wants to play with his dignity, his dignity, he who wants to represent, he who doesn't want to play, gets the hell out.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0106par0326	Bravo!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0105par0327	We're not going to discuss this. What we need to discuss is how do we save the system? Now, in this club law, if we don't get this right away, Mr. Secretary, I know exactly what you're dealing with, but you know who's dealing with it? Three or five men. I mean, why don't they ask the people who know, who are they hiding from? It's obvious who's running the Football Federation. If you want to make history in this country, remove the Football Federation immediately. The Football Federation can't run it. The President of the Football Federation and the President of the Association of Clubs are closing in a room, they're writing the Union of Clubs law now. What do you know, but what will you write? Please expose it, open it to the public, and tell the public that we're going to make the law of new clubs. We'll adopt the laws of developed countries, we'll adapt them to Turkey, and we'll save Turkish sports, Turkish football. Now, sponsors... a few months ago, one of Turkey's largest holdings that supported sports said: I watch the European games, all the stands are full, but I look at Turkey, some games have 2,000 people, 3,000 people, 50,000 people, and violence, and the public's interest has decreased. In fact, we want to get an infrastructure player out of Turkish football, to succeed in Europe, to promote us as sponsors, but there's nothing like that right now, we're pulling out of football. Five hundred million dollars a year plus VAT, which means the world's 6th largest budget in football. I mean, we're the 6th budget in the world, but we're at the end of the 4th bag as football. Of course, that's a very serious problem. Now, in particular, the same government that's been in power for 14 years, a very powerful government, has done good things. In particular, it was in your speech last year, and in your speech this year, you're probably talking about the facilities that have been built. Thank God for facilities. It's been a really big facility launch in the last few years, but if you look at it from the construction department, we'll be in those situations. Just now, again, I'm not saying that I'm hanging out with Osman, but Osman thanks the medalists... You said a foreign name, did you say Osman, Gomez, Eduardo?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0107par0332	Eduardo.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0105par0333	He thanked Eduardo of the Turkish national team for receiving the medal. This really isn't good for us. Of course, there's an illegal bet, Mr. Secretary -- there's a lot of things, but I'll make it short -- there's an illegal bet. England has a website -- I'm not saying right now -- last year's profits are 135 million dollars. It's legal in England, but it's illegal in Turkey and in some countries. They made a $135 million profit, and only profited 30 percent of it from Turkey. I mean, in Turkey, I think it's about -- I don't want to be clear about it now -- but if it has a budget like 10 billion dollars, if it has money, it's 20 billion dollars per year, if it's illegal, it's twice as much. What are we supposed to do here? I made a few notes here to see what we can do about it. There are certain things you've done, but the Ministry must seize this situation, and the decision to block access must be assessed on time. Closed sites must be prevented from being re-activated under other names. MASAK and BDDK must impose sanctions on banks that fail to fulfill their obligation to conduct suspicious operations. Banks must and must determine who transfers money directly or indirectly into the accounts of illegal sites. Other than that, does this illegal bet and the usual bet affect football? It does. We're not fans at all, but there's also the facts of this capitalist order, which goes on and on and on, at least in the legal framework. I'm a congressman. I'd like to say a few words about my team captain, the one I've worn for years. From what I can see, there's a one-year-old MP here from the ruling party.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0108par0337	We're in.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0109par0338	We're in.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0105par0339	There's Haydar Bey from the ruling party.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0108par0340	The power of the future, let's say.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0105par0341	Good luck with that. Of course, Bigelispor has great problems. A Bigelispor, who was in the Super League in 2008, fell into an amateur cluster in 2013. I've told you before, Mr. President, what's the situation with this Bigeli? He said, "Let's get a team of emergency Super Leagues out of here and do the stadium." The stadium is being held, but the Bigelispor has fallen into the amateur cluster. Mr. Fikri is Minister of Yak Bey Kopeeli, and we are friends of ours, who have set up a team under the name Big League Sports, who have instructed all the businessmen to give 3-4 million dollars a year, and there are companies that are on the side, but they're on the same side, but they're on the same side. He plays for 100 people in the league, and he is an amateur in the Bigelispor, and he plays for 20,000. Now, Bigelispor 3. He's in the league. I'm asking you, Mr. Sports Minister... to tell Mr. Fikri that they have a problem with Bigelispor, and if they tell us what they have, maybe we can help. Last month I called the President of the Bursaspor Club -- they've done a configuration -- about the debts -- Mr. President, what did you do? He said: "The politicians also helped us, and we owed $120 million to the SGK and the government." They said, "We have interest, interest of interest, uncle of interest, fines of interest, and reduced $120 million to $8 million." I spoke to the club president myself. They dropped $120 million to 8 million and divided it into 72 months. Naturally, Bursaspor took a vital breath and got out of debt. Well, why is it that Bigelispor -- I think they owe a 70-80 million lira too. Seven lawmakers, one minister, 14 years single-handedly those debts, they go down to 70-80 million, 7-8 million, and they're not divided by seventy-two? Why is part of the annual 3-4 million that was given to that Union Sport? Look, I'm the Alderman. It's a city that's close to $2 million. The symbol of the words "Hushelispor" or "Hushelispor" is the name of the name. So, our ministers are here, and our Minister of Sports is here, Mr. Fikri -- perhaps we can talk to him about this again -- and please intervene with Bigelispor. Of course, I wrote something here. There's been a lot of demand for these dorms for two years, and we're homesick. Minister, we can see what you're doing, but if you can increase these dorms... if these dorms increase, then we won't be left with these congregations, like the disaster in Adana Aladağ. That's what it's about. And I don't know how true it is to say this, but this terror problem of ours, we have to bring in a team or two from east and southeast to the Super League while we solve this terror problem. A few years ago -- Diyarbakirspor, at some point in the region -- when Erzurumspor was once in the Elazig Super League -- we were going there, and we were going to the games, and we were going to visit, and suddenly the atmosphere changed. I was the head of İstanbulspor Club in 2007 2008, we went to the Diyarbakir's game, we beat 2-1 Diyarbakır's in Diyarbakir. At least 5,000 people clapped when we got on the bus after the game. So, what can be done about it, of course, we can talk about it, but we have to bring a team from the east and southeast to the Super League. Other than that, we called it the financial criteria. And since we've turned currency into Turkish lira, it's a good campaign. In large clubs, especially all foreigners with exchanges, but also Turkish players' contracts with exchanges. Well, now that these clubs are up 20 percent, they're going to be in a big mess, we're going to have to pay a little attention to that. I, again, kiss our brothers who were martyrs yesterday by the forehead. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Again, my condolences to the great Turkish nation, and I wish the budget well. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0110par0353	Thank you, Mr. Sandzak. Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0111par0355	Mr. President, yesterday in Istanbul, we faced a terrorist incident that put our entire nation under the law. There is a common text of three political parties on this issue, and if you'll excuse me, I would like to share this text with our nation.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0110par0356	Mr. Elitaş, it would be better if you read from your place according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0112par0357	Is it customary for 50 people to die every day, Mr. President? This is the people's stand.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0111par0358	Mr. President, this is an extraordinary time. I'd like to read this matter on behalf of our nation as representatives of the nation while our nation bleeds.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0110par0359	Okay. I promise to read the statement from the nation's stand against the threat to the nation to the members of the group. I give you the first word, Mr. Elitaş. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0113par0365	To our nation of saints; Yesterday's traitorous attack in Istanbul is a violent terrorist attack on the unity, support and integrity of the holy Turkish nation. With this attack, terrorists who don't recognize any of the Holy Ones have once again activated anti-human terror methods. No matter what terrorist organization this attack is, let those who attack know that the unity and unity of our beloved nation will not be broken, but it will be stronger. It must not be forgotten that no demand can be attributed to terrorism, legitimacy, terrorism, innocence. Terror will never be able to surrender Turkey and intimidate our beloved nation. Because this great nation, with an ancient past, has eliminated many obstacles in its glorious history, by maintaining unity and unity, by bringing together the common mind and consciousness. With this power from our glorious history, let no one doubt that we will fight as a nation against terror attacks and will stick together more. The best answer to terrorism is to strengthen our brotherhood. Just as we stood up as a nation in the face of these acts of terror done earlier by PKK, DEAŞ, DHKP-C, and other terrorist organizations in a similar way, we will produce a steel will as we have failed the purpose of terrorism. It is clear that the blood-soaked terrorist organizations, such as the PKK and DEAC, who have repeatedly attempted live bombings and slaughtered innocent people in the past, and the forces and supporters behind them will be destroyed by this strong will of our nation. May our nation be blessed, the anti-human terrorists will be defeated, the mighty Turkish nation and state will be victorious. Terrorists who attempt to attack people will either disappear or answer to justice. We express especially in our heart that our pain is shared and that we share this deep pain by putting aside all kinds of political differences. On July 15th, we offer the attention of our beloved nation that we will demonstrate the national consciousness that we have demonstrated in the coup attempt against our nation and its will in the face of these terrorist attacks. We, the political party groups who signed this declaration, are with you to the end of our security forces in the fight against terrorism for the peace of our state and the peace of our beloved nation. As a result of this terrorist attack, we pray for mercy from God to our fallen policemen, our citizens, and for our wounded. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Mustafa Elitaş Engin Altay Erkan Akçay AK PARTY Republican People's Party Nationalist Movement Party Deputy Director of Group Group Deputy Chairman Group Deputy Director I salute our great nation.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0114par0385	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. Mr. Altay, for the same reason, I give you my word. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0115par0389	To our nation of saints; Yesterday's traitorous attack in Istanbul is a violent terrorist attack on the unity, support and integrity of the holy Turkish nation. With this attack, terrorists who don't recognize any of the Holy Ones have once again activated anti-human terror methods. No matter what terrorist organization this attack is, let those who attack know that the unity and unity of our beloved nation will not be broken, but it will be stronger. It must not be forgotten that no demand can be attributed to terrorism, legitimacy, terrorism, innocence. Terror will never be able to surrender Turkey and intimidate our beloved nation. Because this great nation, with an ancient past, has eliminated many obstacles in its glorious history, by maintaining unity and unity, by bringing together the common mind and consciousness. With this power from our glorious history, let no one doubt that we will fight as a nation in the face of terror attacks and that we will stick together even more. The best answer to terrorism is to strengthen our brotherhood. Just as we stood up as a nation in the face of these acts of terror done earlier by PKK, DEAŞ, DHKP-C, and other terrorist organizations in a similar way, we will produce a steel will as we have failed the purpose of terrorism. It is clear that the blood terror organizations, such as the PKK and the DEAC, who have repeatedly committed live bombings and slaughtered innocent people, and the forces and supporters behind them will be destroyed by this strong will of our nation. May our nation be blessed, the anti-human terrorists will be defeated, the mighty Turkish nation and state will be victorious. Terrorists who attempt to attack people will either disappear or answer to justice. We express especially in our heart that our pain is shared and that we share this deep pain by putting aside all kinds of political differences. On July 15th, we present to the attention of our beloved nation that we will demonstrate the national consciousness that we have launched against our nation and against its will in the face of these terrorist attacks. We, the political party groups who signed this declaration, are with you to the end of our security forces in the fight against terrorism for the peace of our state and the peace of our beloved nation. In the wake of this terrorist attack, we pray for the mercy of God to our fallen police and citizens, and for the immediate healing of our wounded. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0116par0405	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Akçay, for the same reason, I give you my word. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0117par0409	To our nation of saints; Yesterday's traitorous attack in Istanbul is a violent terrorist attack on the unity, support and integrity of the holy Turkish nation. With this attack, terrorists who don't recognize any of the Holy Ones have once again activated anti-human terror methods. No matter what terrorist organization this attack is, let those who attack know that the unity and unity of our beloved nation will not be broken, but it will be stronger. It must not be forgotten that no demand can be attributed to terrorism, legitimacy, terrorism, innocence. Terror will never be able to surrender Turkey and intimidate our beloved nation. Because this great nation, with an ancient past, has eliminated many obstacles in its glorious history, by maintaining unity and unity, by bringing together the common mind and consciousness. With this power from our glorious history, let no one doubt that we will fight as a nation against terror attacks and will stick together even more. The best answer to terrorism is to strengthen our brotherhood. In the same way that we have stood up as a nation in the face of these acts of terror that the PKK, DEAŞ, DHKP-C, and other terrorist organizations have done in a similar way, we will demonstrate a steel will as we have failed the purpose of terrorism. It is clear that the blood-soaked terrorist organizations, such as the PKK and DEAC, who have repeatedly attempted live bombings and slaughtered innocent people in the past, and the forces and supporters behind them will be destroyed by this strong will of our nation. May our nation be blessed, the anti-human terrorists will be defeated, the mighty Turkish nation and state will be victorious. Terrorists who attempt to attack people will either disappear or answer to justice. We express especially in our heart that our pain is shared and that we share this deep pain by putting aside all kinds of political differences. On July 15th, we present to the attention of our beloved nation that we will demonstrate the national consciousness that we have launched against our nation and against its will in the face of these terrorist attacks. We, the political party groups who signed this declaration, are with you to the end of our security forces in the fight against terrorism for the peace of our state and the peace of our beloved nation. In the wake of this terrorist attack, we pray for the mercy of God to our fallen police and citizens, and for the immediate healing of our wounded. I'm sorry for the loss of our nation.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0118par0424	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Danış Beştaş...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0119par0426	We'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0118par0427	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0119par0429	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have just shared the statement that three political parties have co-operated. We, the People's Democratic Party, would like to share our statement and the message of reprimand with the Parliament and Turkey with the public earlier this morning, after six. "The two bombings in Istanbul have resulted in fire in many people's homes once more. We condemn these attacks as hard as we can. We feel a great deal of sadness, and we share the pain that is happening. We wish mercy to those who lost their lives in the attacks, condolences to their families, relatives, immediate healings to the wounded. Everyone must do everything in their power to make sure that the pain stops and the new ones don't happen. Turkey must become a model country for peace, democracy, human rights, and more importantly, a political actor. More tensions, polarization, hostility and conflict-producing policies, language and style, must be terminated immediately. That's the first step in stopping this going. "For those who have lost their lives once again, "we offer our condolences to our entire community." It's a text shared by the People's Democratic Party's Central Executive Board, of course by our group. And finally, I want to say again: really, in the face of the July 15 coup attempt, four political parties have co-operated under the roof of this House and actually repel the coup. We will continue to find formulas for partnership, not dissolution. Three political parties know why we didn't sign today's statement. If our proposals were taken into consideration, we'd have our signature on this statement. So we felt the need to share our party's declaration.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0120par0433	But those of you who leaned on your back did it! Who were you leaning on?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0119par0434	Again, I offer my condolences to all of Turkey, that pain is our pain. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0121par0436	Thank you. Congressmans, as the Court of Parliament, we once again curse all terrorist organizations, no matter what its name may be, no matter who it may be, no matter who it may be, against whomever it may be. On this occasion, we offer our condolences to our fellow policemen who lost their lives last night, our fellow citizens, our condolences to our nation, our nation's condolences. May the Lord have mercy on our martyrs. In the face of this blessed day, in the name of the water, I say this day, that the Lord of the Prophet shall make our martyrs neighbor to him. Again, when it comes to terrorism, when it comes to national issues, when it comes to a threat to the nation, to the country, to the flag, of course, it's quite natural that all the parliamentarians and all the groups here have to stand together and stand up to terrorism. And I want to thank you for that, and once again, my condolences. 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Ministry of National Education for Central Management in 2015 1) The Board of Higher Education 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2017 is the chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) The Head of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2015 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account 2015 1) Sports General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Higher Education Loans and Homes Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Higher Education Credit and Homes Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2015 Central Management Final Account EPISODE AND KADISTRO GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2015 The last word on behalf of the National Movement Party Group belongs to İzmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0122par0474	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budgets of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate. I salute our General Assembly. First, I ask God's mercy to our lions, to our policemen, to our citizens and to our martyrs who have lost their lives in this wicked terror attack in Istanbul, and I offer my condolences to their relatives and wish the wounded immediate healing. I wish you the best of the night that we will be able to understand this day, and of the good of Mevlit Kandili. Dear lawmakers, annual budgets show the vision of power, steps it will take within a year, policies and economic options it will prefer. In this regard, successful budgets make consistent predictions, using technical and realistic use of the consequences of past periods. Therefore, when budgets are being organised, the first place to look is in the current situation, a detection study. It seems that the budget of 2017, just as it was before, is not promising either in its content or in its purpose. The 2017 budget appears to be preparing for the return of the current state wheel, which does not have a specific goal or priority for the welfare of our nation. This year's budget is earmarked for annual inflation to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, as well as for the Tapu and Cadastro General Directorate, which is slightly lower than the annual increase in inflation. The public's trust fund, unfortunately, has lost its sense of trust. As in the budgets of the past few years, we also see that the Ministry has both the budget of central management and the private account and the ability to increase its budget enough this year. As we say over and over again from this platform each year, the estimated figures will not be able to address the services our country needs in the area of environmental and urbanism in 2017, as we once said. Dear MPs, we can also see the 2017 Annual Programme of the Council of Ministers, which I have shown, amongst the documents that justify these statements and our criticisms. This programme also includes the signatures of the ministers, and these programmes, in fact, prioritize the government's one-year objective, target and policy. When we look at this program, it's made the following assessments in the field of environmental and urbanism: that the need for a new city and development law is still in order to adapt to global climate change, that our country's capacity is inadequate, that we need legislation and planning to protect the biological diversity and genetic resources our country has, that there are a lot of negative detections in the document that I've just submitted to you, that cities' quality of life is failing because they don't have the quality of life that they're asking for, that urban transformations are failing, that they're failing at the same time, that they're causing financial, administrative, technical problems. As always, the targets have been left to the future and to the future. Again -- as we say here every year, as the speakers of the National Movement Party stress -- there are also shortcomings and errors in the Court reports, and mistakes are being continued to be sustained. Dear lawmakers -- Mr. Minister's budget presentation again -- this document -- considers the environment responsible for future generations and considers it a trust, Mr. Secretary. In our culture and in our belief values, we know that the concept of trust is very important. The approaches that view the environment as just the source of the rant, unfortunately, are in conflict with the views at the beginning of this presentation. Dear lawmakers, we also see that the Ministry adopts a sense of planning that leads to extreme intensity in urban areas that are already busy. It also shows us that the cities are rapidly corrupting their sociocultural structures and that almost environmentally hostile cities have been exposed. As a result of these poor choices, the view that 97 per cent of our country's environmental order plans have been completed and that there will be no unplanned space left until the end of 2017 remains meaningless. On the other hand, the village's zoning plans are still incomplete. This was also criticised by the Plan and Budget Commission. Our citizens in the villages are spending 6,000 to 7,000 lira on a construction license, and at the same time, they have to leave a thousand Turkish lira grants on a temporary contract card, and when we look at it like this, the Ministry, which is unable to take over the task of collecting land, does not offer that kind of will. Dear lawmakers, since 2014 we know that each spatial plan or change of plan is a transaction number given by the Ministry. When we look at it in this context, we've learned that more than 70,000 zoning plans or changes have been taken into electronic recording environments at the Minister's presentation. Now, if we go from here, when we look at it, it's actually a kind of statement of how much renovation is being done in the development plans, and that's what's happening in this document. Already -- the main issue of planning -- there are changes in the runt-focused zoning plan made by the Ministry. With such practices, the ministry has become one of the most important competitors in misuse of land and over-concentration. On top of that, the increase in value, which will result from regulations on the Building Law, has been specifically intended for the public to receive a share. Then it means that the plan is only made for a value increase. An understanding accepted by the embezzlement of power, such as this, would be more likely to be fed by these practices. On the other hand, the ministry must now end an application, such as that the zoning plan, which cannot be taken from the municipality as an alternative to municipalities, should be taken from the ministry within 45 days. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the logic of the current urban transformation, we have an understanding that both citizens will win, contractors will win, and they will fall on public administration. However, this is causing extreme intensity in certain areas of cities, and creating inextricably urban problems. The urgent thing to do here is to abandon this approach that is being implemented and everyone thinks they have won. An urban transformation programme, which includes the financial contributions of citizens and the public, which will be subject to urban transformation without running away from populism, is especially required to adopt an urban transformation programme that envisions starting from areas that are actually at risk. Only a quarter of the environmental taxes collected by the state are divided into environmental services. And we're dealing with a freak here, and in 2014, total environmental spending is $20.7 billion, and environmental taxes add up to 73.7 billion, and there's a big difference. So these criticisms have to be answered directly here. Dear MPs, again, I'd like to say from this bench a polymical that some of my friends love: ▪APP before, after the AKP. Here, I'll give you one example. Prior to the AKP, the environmental impact assessment report, which we call the CED, was the implementation of measures to predict and prevent the negative impact on nature during the construction and execution of a project, but at the present point, when we look at it, the CED has now become just a banned defense tool completed on the Internet. Why do we say that? The CED regulations in Turkey take effect in 1993, has changed 18 times since then, but 10 times since the AKP administrations and interestingly, the latest change was made in February last. The most dangerous change is the change in 2011. See, in that change, he says that he will start investing until 2015, and in projects that are in the project, the change that allows him to look for conditions for CED. Dear lawmakers, the 2003-2015 -- we don't have the numbers this year -- we don't need 44,869 projects. The decision is made. Which means it's a disaster. The Minister's statements on protected areas seriously concern all aspects of the issue. Because in this area, it should also be known in what areas the status levels have been changed and invested in as a result of a more transparent approach and applications to re-enacted rules. We, of course, will probably be talking about the report again, as usual here, won't we, Mr. Naci? Apparently, the ministers are surrounded. It's also a mystery right now whether private environmental protection areas are really protected after the closure of the Special Environment Protection Agency and the adoption of the Ministry's General Directorate for Protection of Nature Assets. In addition to intensive construction pressure in these areas, the sensitivity of the issue will be more understood, given the lack of control in these areas. Now, I'd like to come to another ministry. With structural changes to the County Bank, the bank has become a land speculator. For 14 years, our bank has been transformed into a magic key that opens a series of gains to companies that have worked with him. The crucial question here is: Why is ILBANK pursuing land in our major cities, such as Istanbul, instead of helping municipalities in Anatolia in which there is no financial possibility? These are unfortunately value-losing practices for the public administration. Turkey sided with about 30 protocols on environmental and environmental protection and around 40 international contracts. Which shows how seriously the environmental conditions in our country are protected, but what's interesting is that there are also very serious problems in the country that depend on international contracts that are still looking for a solution to the environment. For example, I think we can go back to the fact that there's no active control mechanism. The continued pollution of air, water, land, and coastal pollution is also a major one. The fact that high-scale plans covering the whole of Turkey still haven't been made -- this is interesting -- with the municipalities, with the TOKI, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the Privatisation Administration and many other institutions -- lies a freak here. In the settlement elections, serious shortcomings remain in the selection of geological ethics, environmental factors and disaster-sensitive locations. Urban transformation projects are supposed to be a priority, but they've been made runt-oriented, and the cadastro work in Turkey has not yet been completed, I'm afraid. A pile of problems like this are listed below. Members of parliament, last month the United Nations World Climate Conference was held in Marrakesh, Morocco, and was joined by serious delegations from our country. According to some reports there, however, Turkey has also been found to have neglected its obligations in the fight against global warming and has been among the worst countries in climate policy. Again, according to these reports, when we look at it, we're the only country in 58 countries without climate policy, and we're probably not going to be proud of that. Turkey, among 58 countries responsible for 90 per cent of carbon emissions, was able to take the 51st place when we looked at the Climate Change Performance Index 2017. Again, the European Council Report 2015 remains up to date on the part still relevant to the environment. In particular, the report said that waste management and industrial pollution practices are inadequate, and practices related to the CED I just said are highly criticised, that legislation related to legislation needs to be carried out, and that court decisions for the more interesting environment have not been implemented enough. Members of parliament, the data of the TÜİK (TİK) provides us with findings that confirm these things. For example, in greenhouse gas emissions, our total greenhouse gas emissions in 2014 increased by 125 percent compared to 1990. Oh, you could say, "What does this do?" That's why we're heavily responsible for many of the obligations we've already signed. The Chamber of Environmental Engineers has published reports of air pollution, many findings related to Istanbul, Ankara, İzmir. There's a special part here that may have to be noticed, and our boundary values don't seem to be in line with them, unfortunately, above the boundaries set by the European Union and the World Health Organization. Dear MPs, I would like to mention the state of Izmir, as the environmental budget is being discussed, because there are very serious violations and problems in the environment. RES investments are 39 per cent of the Aegean Region, which is our province across Turkey, and within that region is an additional 19 per cent investment in Izmir. When it is looked like this, unfortunately, as a result of the lack of legislation and arbitrary lack of control in this area, our villages and our nature in İzmir are being destroyed and the olive groves are being removed by changing migration roads, and so is the natural life of our village, along with nature, unfortunately. We also see that fish farms that should be set up on the shores of Izmir, 2.8km away, are now within 500m [500 m] of shores, and are being stung. Which leads to serious pollution, but I think it's a more serious thing to say: at the center of the Izmir Province, 178 coal-selling companies have been serving housing with the 444 central coal system, and they've been causing air pollution, unfortunately, waiting 14 years for a solution. Again, the waste problem in Izmir, the pollution of water and agricultural basins continue in this sense, members of parliament. Congressmans, I'd like to make a few remarks about the Tapu and the Kadastro General Directorate. But what's interesting is that now, as it's been said, this honorable General Directorship, which has been serving for a hundred and sixty-nine years, has been run by power of attorney, including legal counsel and domestic supervision, and the public's top administration is sadly overwhelmed by politics. Now, another interesting thing is that you're building ultralux Ministry buildings. When we're on the road to Eskişehir, we see these buildings with great left-hand structures, but for some reason, most of the land managers across Turkey are being paid rent, which is one of the most important institutions. When we look at the 2015 volume...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0123par0500	They do it in the courthouses, too.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0122par0501	That's right, they say the courthouses are the same way. In 2015, the volume of the deeds increased by 5.7%. What is this? 5.7% means: 7 million transactions are being worked on, valued MPs. Now, in 14 years, there have been eight ministers of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism -- another respected minister is sitting right now -- but the problems have not been resolved. Even the budgets that can overcome these problems have not been reduced to our General Assembly, I'm afraid. So we say, in the course of your work, it would be a modern, permanent practice, a value, a respect that would be a great honor, and we say, "It is not the right choice to just try and solve problems by allowing them to come and take them on a runta basis, and we salute the General Assembly again in the name of the public government and with those thoughts."
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0124par0504	Thank you very much, Mr. Godkulu. Now, speaking for the group is complete. The first statement, in favor of the individuals, belongs to Erzurum MP Orhan Deligöz. Here you go, Mr. Crazy Eyes. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0125par0509	Mr. President, our esteemed ministers and deputies have made a commitment to speak in favor of the 2017 budget bill talks. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. In honor of the birth anniversary of our Prophet Muhammad Mustafa (SAV), I congratulate you on Mevlit Kandili, who brings peace and peace to all Muslims and mankind tonight. I pray for the mercy of God to our 38 martyrs who lost their lives last night in the terrorist act in Istanbul, and for the immediate healing of our wounded. I curse the terrorist organization and its followers. Our number of universities, 76, increased to 182, during the EC PARTY period. There's no province without university. In addition to our provinces, schools and universities have been opened in almost all our counties. This shows the importance our government has given to our young people and education. There were 197 high-school dorms, and now it's 686. The loan to the students was $45, raised to $400. In our 14 years of ruling, 250,000 new classes were made. Books are distributed to our students for free. The FATHIH Project and tablets have been distributed. The FATHIH Project has been criticised by the opposition since morning.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0126par0514	Let's go to school together tomorrow, see if he works.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0125par0515	You've criticised opposition parties for building double roads, you've criticised high-speed railway tracks, but now you're enjoying it.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0126par0516	Let's go to school tomorrow, see if it works.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0125par0517	God willing, if the project is completed, you will pray to us. Our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism aims to transform 6.5 million homes. It is about to build 35,000 dwellings in the southeast alone. In addition, our cadastro studies in our country have been completed and the deed is even done in Germany. This is the first time in the world, friends, and there is no other example. The deed and the Kadastro are able to do so with very few of their employees, they need personnel immediately, and they are not getting a contribution from the return capital, Mr. Secretary. We want to contribute to return capital to the deed to the Kadastro employees. Erzurum, one of Turkey's largest cities, is the city of myths and legends, the educational, cultural and sports centre of the east, friends. The 2011 Winter Olympics were held in Erzurum, the second week of February, where the youth games, called "EYOF" will be held. I invite you all to watch the winter games at Erzurum. In Erzurum, our Ataturk University is a 60-year-old university, with a student arriving at 280,000, and I remember our deceased Prime Minister Adnan Menderes, who founded Ataturk University. Our second university was founded by Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and Erzurum Technical University continues to develop and move forward. Erzurum, my constituency, has been one of 23 attractions, and hopefully our investments will continue. So I'm also speaking to our Minister of Sports: I hope we'll make Erzurum the capital of winter tourism and winter sports, Mr Minister, this is what the people of Erzurum demand from you. Dear friends, in our country, it was forbidden to speak in Kurdish until 2002, it was forbidden to listen to Kurdish music, people could not speak in the native language, and now they are listening to song and song, and none of those bans are anymore. Mardin Artuklu University has a master's degree in Kurdish and studies continue for the doctorate. Kurdish publications are currently under way in the TRT. Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Co-Chair Selahattin Demirtaş's call to the street has been taken as a martyr, while Yasin Bör was delivering the sacrifice with his two friends. You petitioned for immunity, and then you didn't stand behind it, and you voted against it. Now, when the judges invited you, you didn't go, you challenged. Now, when there were arrests, you started crying. You have no respect for your people or your constituents or our nation, dear HDP people. So I suggest that you do politics on behalf of the public instead of being the attorney of the PKK. You have no right to display photos of those arrested for aiding and abetting. This isn't an art show, my friends, take it somewhere else; it's getting in my face, and it's getting in our nation's eyes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0127par0525	Watch where you're going!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0125par0526	Photos of suspects arrested for aiding and abetting Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) cannot be displayed in the Assembly General Assembly. You guys are committing a crime right now. You're definitely committing a crime.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0128par0527	Give me another order right now, and give me another one right now!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0127par0528	Watch where you're going!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0125par0529	Then you will be questioned about it. If you didn't go to the condolence tent, if you didn't put your back to Kandil, if you didn't bring terrorist support and help with the MP vehicle, why are you afraid? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They're judged, they're out. But if you've done these things, these people will pay.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0129par0533	Let's check you out, maybe you're a parishioner too!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0125par0534	One day, Keçecizade Fuat Pasha of the Tanzimat era says: "We didn't wash the Ottomans from the outside, even though we shot them from the inside. How great is this state... that has come to date...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0130par0535	Mr. Crazy Eyes, your time is complete, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0125par0536	It's important.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0130par0537	Dear Crazy Eyes, thank you, your time is up.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0125par0538	Look, guys, the mankurts in us need to come to their senses... Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0130par0540	Dear Crazy Eyes, no, absolutely, I didn't promise anyone, I didn't open it. Thank you. Thank you, sir, Mr. General Board.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0125par0541	Thanks.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0130par0542	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0131par0543	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0130par0544	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0131par0545	Do I need to give you a reason, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0130par0546	I promise you two minutes before you mess with me. Please, let's not afford another tease. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0132par0551	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know if the speaker is too excited to use the bench too little. But don't get all excited and pull things out of context and make it look like they have something that doesn't. Look, if you've seen this General Assembly well, the questions we've been talking to you about in the last ten days, the questions we've been waiting for, the answers we've been waiting for, are in the air. Number one: You cannot show a personal call from Judeatin Demirtaş. It's a MYK decision. And the MYK decision, go ahead and knit people or civilians. It's nothing more than that on July 15th, when the President calls the people to the streets to react democratically. So we say, again, all 48 of those October 6th, 8th events where 52 people died, are our party members, our executives. One other thing: let's say that we're still waiting for your answer. Look, Mr. Sergeant, I've asked him three times about our deputies, our mayors, our party managers. The questions you can't bring back, the questions we can't bring back, the questions we're going to confront you with: one police feud, the prosecution's file, any documents in court, that our friends are members of an organization, carrying weapons, helping people, why were you asking questions the judge, the prosecutor didn't ask? Or bring him in, show him a document one day. Look, we said it, we're saying it again.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0133par0555	He'll show up in court.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0132par0556	You have passed through the rahle-i regime of Goebbels, the minister of Hitler's propaganda.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0133par0557	Right now, the suspects are...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0132par0558	You lie to me 40 times, you make people believe in the forty-first. Yeah, get a court order, a police department, an intelligence file! Why do you come back here and repeat things that didn't happen? You don't have to put yourself on the spot, and you don't have to come in here and talk about things that are so exciting. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0134par0561	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0135par0562	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0136par0563	Mr. President, a moment of your time.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0134par0564	Mr. Sandzak, I'll give you a minute according to 60.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0135par0567	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Orator, in his speech, you will return to the opposition and thank us for what we have done. He uses words like that. Let's watch our language these days. The government has to serve, it's already chosen for it. These days, let's, uh, let's watch our language a little bit, 'cause we're out of tune, too. I say we talk a little more carefully from now on. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit02spe0137par0572	Thank you. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0137par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and 2015 Central Management Charter. 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Ministry of National Education for Central Management in 2015 1) The Board of Higher Education 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2017 is the chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) The Head of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2015 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account 2015 1) Sports General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Higher Education Loans and Homes Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Higher Education Credit and Homes Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2015 Central Management Final Account EPISODE AND KADISTRO GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2015 The commission and the government are in place. Now, it was up to the government. The first statement on behalf of the government belongs to the Minister of National Education, Mr. Ismet Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0138par0040	Mr. President, I'm here to brief you on what we've done with the current budgetary budgets for national education, the Ministry of Education, the Board of Higher Education, the Chairman of the Centre for Measurement and Placement, and the Central Management Budget Bills for the year 2017 and what we've done with the earlier budget, and what we're going to do next. On this occasion, I salute you. Before I begin with my words, I first ask for God's mercy on our martyrs, patience with their families, and immediate healing for our wounded, and I congratulate Mevlit Kandili, of the Islamic world. May Mevlit Kandili bring peace and peace to our country and region. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, education and education are a process that has been constantly developed in accordance with the needs of the age, renewed and uninterrupted in light of savings and experiences. As the Ministry of National Education, we want everyone to have access to education and education, to have equal opportunities in education, to gain the knowledge, skill, attitude, and behavior required by the age, to grow up to be open, confident and responsible, healthy and happy individuals. We are aware that Turkey can only achieve its goals through education in the 21st century. With that consciousness, as in earlier years, this year, we have divided the largest share of the budget into education. In 2002, 11 billion dollars were earmarked for education, including the grant of loans and dorms, which corresponded to 10 per cent of that budget. Today, in 2017, education includes 11 billion of loans and dorms, because we're saving 122 billion dollars and 414 million dollars, which is 20 per cent of the budget. This is a clear indication of the importance of education. In no time has there been so much funding for education, so little attention has been given. He cared about everything that mattered to education, he neglected everything that neglected education. As part of the budget, our ministry is doing common education and teaching services that include almost all parts of society. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, with the work done so far, we've solved the fundamental infrastructure and access issues significantly. Augmenting the quality of education is our constant and constant goal. During the time of our governments, we increased the mandatory training period from eight to twelve years. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, the most basic element of education is the teacher. The guarantee of our future is undoubtedly the greatest share of our teachers in the provision of our young ones with national values, in meeting them with universal values, and in the upbringing of them in accordance with the needs of the age. During this period, we made the biggest investment to the teacher. We have appointed 561,135 teachers - more than 62 percent of the current 903,863 teachers. Some of our friends show the amount reserved for buildings as an investment budget for education, which is not true. The biggest investment in education is an investment in the teacher. You can teach without a lecture, but you can't teach without a teacher. The criteria, based on investment spending and the current spending distinction, are whether the benefits of spending are continuous. In this framework, all spending in education is regarded as investment spending, as its benefit is continuity by increasing the power of human capital. For a quality education, the number of students per teacher must be within internationally accepted limits. When education was entrusted to us, the number of students per teacher in the 2002-2003 teaching year fell from 28 to 16 in primary school, and thus dropped from 18 to 13 in secondary school. The teacher norm staff capacity required by educational institutions is 89.20 per cent in Eastern Anatolia. It has reached 87.02 per cent in the Southeast Anatolian Region and 89.65 per cent across the country.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0139par0047	There are 300,000 unassigned teachers, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0138par0048	Our goal is to present education services across the country, with a 100 per cent capacity per city in each region. In some counties, the norm staff capacity has reached its destination. Most of the staff in the public office are made up of teachers. In order to reduce the negative impact of teachers leaving for a short period of time at various institutions, including the excuse for family unity, the provinces of the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian region are a priority in development, as part of Article 657 under Article 4/b (b) joke, we have launched the application of a teacher at a contractal status. Mr. President, we have made significant improvements to the financial and social rights of our teachers. In 2002, a teacher's salary in the 9th degree of the ministry was 470 liras, while on July 1, 2016, a teacher's salary increased to $2,628. A teacher who teaches 15 extra hours a week is paid $635 in 2002 with his salary; if you want to hit a dollar on November 1 or December 1, 2002, it's going to cost 409 dollars - $410, $420 -- in the second half of 2016, $942 if you hit today's dollar dry. $400 in 2002, $942 today.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0140par0051	Talk to TL. Minister, let's put this dollar away. You're still talking to the dollar, talk to the TLS! What are you doing with dollars?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0138par0052	All teachers are paid once in each education and teaching year to prepare for the education year. The payment increased from 175 lira in the 2002-03 school year to a thousand liras in the 2016-2017 education year.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0141par0053	The professors want him, too, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0138par0054	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, a quality education is given in quality schools. One of the things that is wanted for the quality of education is that the number of students per classroom is at internationally accepted borders. To that end, since 2003, we have submitted some 269,569 classrooms to the service of our people. Our total number of classrooms has exceeded 601,000, and the number of private classrooms is close to 100,000. The number of students per class in each level of education has been reduced to less than 30 percent across the country, thanks to the new classes. In the 2002-03 school year, the number of students dropped to the top of the elementary school, from 25 to 23 in secondary school today. Our ministry's investment allowance, outside of the teacher in 2017, was set at $7 billion,237m, with an increase of 15.2 per cent from the previous year. In the coming period, we will be working hard to end bilateral training. As of today, we have 45 per cent of students who are subject to bilateral education in primary school and 8.60 per cent in secondary school. We're going to need 77,000 extra classes to end the double education. We will continue to build a classroom, especially by prioritizing our cities of intensive migration where bilateral training has been conducted. We plan to complete this by the end of 2019. Some of our friends asked: " How will you do so with this reserved resource? " Aydın has 17 districts. There is no need for bilateral training in 16 districts, except in the central district of Efeler, where five schools are needed. When I went to the opening of Adnan Menderes University, one of our businessmen signed a protocol to build 32-room schools, and after I arrived, the governor told me that four other business men had taken over the construction of four other schools to end the rest of the bilateral training. When we sign his protocol in the coming period, we'll definitely solve this problem with the central government, plus the nation, hopefully. Mr. President, we have initiated a free textbook application for a healthier education. In order to give our students a better education and increase the equality of opportunities in education, we have increased the use of technology in education and popularized, distributed tablet computers, equipped our classrooms with smart boards. We present education programmes to teachers and students through the Education Information Network by harmonising information technology-supported teaching. In the coming period, we will continue to invest technologically in education, allowing every student who wants to access the information highway. Mr. President, we've started the Applied Education Programme again in our time. Under this programme, education allowance is provided for needy families each month, provided they regularly send their children to school. From 2003 to the end of 2016, we paid the mother of 23 million 499,000 of our first and secondary schools, $4 billion,589 million. Girls who continue elementary school are paid 40 lira for their children and 35 lira for their boys; girls who continue in secondary school are paid 60 euros per month for their boys and 50 Turkish liras for their boys. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we encouraged the private sector to invest more in education at this time, support the establishment of private schools. In 2002, the number of private schools, 1,246, rose to 7.980. The number of students studying at private teaching institutions in 2002 reached 1.38,000 today from 218,000. Mr. President, we're also giving scholarships to those of our primary and secondary school students who need them to increase the equality of opportunities in education. In 2002, the student's scholarship amount was $13 a month, and today it's $185. Again, in 2003, 86,000 students received scholarships, while today the number of scholarships reached 264 thousand. Mr. President, good lawmakers, the use of education and rehabilitation services for disabled citizens as the ministry is another priority. We have earmarked about 12 billion and 188 million dollars from 2006 to September 2016. Free transportation has been initiated by 2004 for our students who are having difficulty exercising their right to education and in need of special education. In this regard, 6,901 students were given transport services for 81,120 students in the 2015-2016 school year during the 2004-05 school year. Another education service for disabled persons: due to your apology -- such as cam, muscle disease, leukemia, long-term bedridden -- started home-schooling for those who are in a mandatory school year and who can't go to school in 2007. In 2007, 176 people were home-schooled, while 6,407 were home-schooled in 2015-2016. In this regard, we consider it a principle for the education of the disabled to be a source education. In the 2015-2016 school year, 202,142 of our students continued their training through fusion. In 2002, the number of students with special education was 64,956, while in 2016, we provide training services for our students with 239,885 disabled students. To improve the quality of education for disabled persons, we will continue our work in the coming period with greater precision and care. Mr. President, we also provide home services to our high-school students who are in need. The total number of beds reached 156,000 in 2002, reaching 430,000 today. The remaining number of students reached 117 thousand in 2002, reaching 302,000 today. When I say 2002, not because I want to defame 2002, but because of how much distance it takes to begin a journey, a starting point should be specified, so I'm telling you. Our lodgings have reached 70 per cent of the capacity. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, another service we've given is transport training. In the 2015-2016 school year, 1 million 381,000 students took advantage of the possibility of carrying, including 1 million 178 thousand of them in the lunch service. Mr. President, good lawmakers, another matter I would like to present to your knowledge is the developments in our ministry's foreign educational activities. Turkey's Maarif Foundation was founded to meet the need for education for the children of our citizens living abroad and to transfer the savings of our country to countries demanding education. So far, in six countries, he has started training in Somalia, Guinea, Chad, Senegal, Moritania, and Sudan. A friend of ours said that the president of the foundation would determine his own fee. The right to the peace of the trustees will be determined by the Minister of National Education. In 34 countries, our ministry has a total of 56 representatives, including 31 educational advisers and 25 ▪ training attachés, in order to meet the need for education for our citizens and relatives abroad. We provide a total of 71 educational and teaching institutions, including 17 primary schools, 24 secondary schools, 25 high schools and 5 Turkish education centres, which are opened by our ministry, where the children of our citizens and relatives live abroad. In addition, 3,750 students in 46 countries still receive scholarships to the Ministry of National Education under Law No. 1416. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the main areas of education is the vocational and technical training provided to meet the quality of our country's manpower needs and boost international competitiveness. We consider vocational education a matter of country. Taking into account the demands of the private sector, we open vocational upper secondary schools that specialize in vocational and technical education. We allow local governments and sectors to participate in the administration of these schools. Again, with the development of vocational skills, we offer vocational training courses and vocational training to those who have no professions, even though they have jobs, including the disabled, the disabled, the housewives, the widows and orphans, former prisoners, the victims of terrorism, especially young unemployed and those who want to change their profession. We've made great innovations in the field of vocational and technical education. In 2017, we set aside 13.3 billion for vocational and technical education. Our budget for vocational and technical education today is higher than the total budget for national education in 2002. Our number of students -- about 900,000 in vocational and technical teaching in the 2002-2003 school year -- is now over 1,88,000. Our number of teachers, 60,703 in the 2002-2003 school year, is more than 130,000 today. When our school number was 1,993, it reached 3,264. In vocational training, skill training and internships are the most important part of education. Two-thirds of the skills training and internship fees paid by the employer to apprentices and vocational students will be covered by the state at 260 liras of $390. Apprentice training is part of mandatory training. Students who successfully finish their training as an apprentice will be given a master's certificate and a job opening document, and graduates who open their own workplace will be given 50,000 lira grants by KOSGEB and $100,000 interest-free loans. In addition, students who have completed their training as an apprentice will be able to complete their differential courses and get a vocational high school degree and then go to college. Occupational upper secondary school students are obliged to be insured for occupational accidents and occupational illness. Also, the graduates of vocational high school will be named technicians. A vocational and technical secondary school graduates' university of applied sciences has been cut off from the application for unsubstantiated transfer courses, which will give additional points to graduates who want to study in the field based on the results of the university's transition exam. We support private and professional technical training. In 18 areas, the implementation of government incentives in organised industrial areas is $4,270 to $6,675. A total of 23,654 students are supported in 33 private schools outside the organised industrial zone and the organised industrial zone. The sector's demands are also being updated, the areas of these schools are being upgraded, the non-needs are being closed, and the sector needs to be opened. In order to end bilateral education in vocational and technical secondary schools, we will do 5,249 courses in 296 schools. As a result of our assessments, we are renovating 4,206 workshops and labs of our vocational and technical educational institutions to be compatible with technology. Our next goal is to improve the quality of the educational system, and we will use our resources more effectively and efficiently to this goal. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, all of the orators who have come up here have mentioned the results of the International Student Evaluation Program, which has been widely spoken in public recently. One is the application and results of the International Student Evaluation Programme (PISA) 2015, prepared by the Economic Co-operation and Development Agency (OECD). In 72 countries, of the 35 OECD members, 5,895 students from the 15-year-old group of 925,000 students from Turkey attended the programme last year, which was computer-based, with almost 540,000 students representing nearly 29 million students. The 5,895 students were selected from 61 provinces and 187 schools. A friend of ours says it's under the control of the Ministry of National Education. We don't know which schools these schools were until a month before the exam. 21 percent of the selected are nine percent, 73 percent are the tenth grade, and 3 percent are the other ranking classes. 38% of the students are educated and educated in Anadolu high school, 36 per cent vocational and technical Anadolu high school, 14 per cent imam-hatip high school, 2.1 per cent at science high school. If it were left to us, we wouldn't ask for 36% of students from vocational and technical Anatolian high schools. According to the results of the programme: The average rate of science-reading in all countries is 465, Turkey's is 425. According to 2012 science, Japan has fallen; Hong Kong has fallen; Korea has fallen; Switzerland has fallen; England has fallen; Germany has fallen; Finland has fallen; the Netherlands has fallen; Belgium, Australia, New Zealand, France, Hungary, Luxembourg, Greece, Romania, Spain, Lithuania, Austria, Italy, Italy, the Czech Republic, Poland, Ireland, Slovakia, Slovakia, and 25 countries have fallen.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0142par0075	Come to Turkey, Minister of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0138par0076	I'm telling you, there's a problem here. It's different here if we're the only ones who fell. Did Switzerland fall? He fell.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0143par0077	How much did it cost, Mr. Secretary? What's the number? Tell me about it. Where did it fall? So he fell from 18 to 17? How much did it go down to? Tell me that, too, so don't be alleletic, tell everyone everything.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0138par0078	I'll tell you, don't worry. Did Japan fall? You see Japan, Japan has fallen.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0144par0080	The level of education is obvious, Mr. Secretary, what is that a graph of? What do you care about Japan? You are the Minister of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0138par0081	Did Poland fall? Poland has fallen. Did South Korea fall? He fell, as some say, very special, ideal. We're showing Turkey now, and Turkey's here. Turkey has an 18th degree in science and a better degree in mathematics reading ahead of 22 countries. Argentina's national income, which has more per capita income among its leading countries, is greater than ours, and we are better off than them. Mexico's national income is greater than ours, and we are better off than theirs. Brazil's national income per capita is better than ours, and we are better than theirs. I'll tell you Qatar, it's probably close to $100,000 per person, and we're better than them. Since PlSA 2015 has a weighted field of science, it would be correct to compare these application results to 2006, where the weight field is again science. As a result, the 2006 and 2015 applications, where the heavy area is the science reader, will be seen as an increase of about one point compared to the results of Turkey.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0145par0084	Mr. Secretary, we're crawling on the floor, on the floor!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0138par0085	Over the years, the OECD average will see a five-point drop on the average of 13 points in all countries. Given the number of participating countries, Turkey's ranking in 2015 will also be seen to be better than 2016. The difference between girls and boys in Turkey differed from 12 to 6 in 2015, when studying science reading from 2006-2015. In 2006, the 2 points in favor of men reached 4 points in the OECD. In Turkey, the difference between boys and girls is increasing in OECD. In terms of science readers, our students from science high school scored 534 points on this test. 534 points correspond to the score of Estonia, the third of the world. Japan, the 2nd World, is 538. If only our students at science school had taken this test, we would have been third in the world with our degree. Our science school students have no problem competing with the world, not even in front of the world. Our students from the social sciences high school scored 518. This score is in front of Korea, New Zealand, Australia, England. It is also evident that in social sciences, the science of our students is among the world's most prominent countries - the first 10 ▪.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0146par0088	Mr. Secretary, don't act, forgive us God!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0138par0089	The number of students attending the Anadolu High School is 461. That score is equal to Slovakia's score and is better than that of Greece and Chile. Occupational and technical turnout from Anadolu High School is 36 per cent. This is the score that our students scored at 392. Thus, the country's average score of 534 students has been drawn to 425.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0147par0091	We were very good. We didn't know about the national training, Mr. Secretary. Then we don't have any problems, that's fine!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0138par0092	Our mission to technical high schools is different. It would be appropriate for him to compete accordingly. You don't burden a racehorse. With that fact, we're going to improve the level of education in technical high schools, and then we won't have a problem with the PISA about these schools. In PlSA, Turkey received 420 in mathematics and a loss of 28 points, according to 2012, but I would also like to point out that Finland is also a 34-point loss. In the same practice, all participating countries have experienced a decline of 11 points in science, 11 points in mathematics, 9 points in reading skills; 25, 32 and 45 points in the country ranking 1. Similarly, both PISA and PISA 2012 have fallen according to previous implementations in the previous 24th of the 35 OECD members of the 62 countries that participated in the 2015 application. The PISA has made it very clear in its own report that there is a serious lack of sample in the application PISA 2015. Both private and public schools attend the programme. This report includes more evaluations for Turkey than students who study in private schools. The success of students in public schools with socioeconomic levels such as private schools is much higher than private schools.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0148par0095	Mr. Secretary, may God not put anyone in your position!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0149par0096	Amen! That's a shame!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0138par0097	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the PISA 2015 results show that public schools are also more successful in their study skills than private schools. According to the OECD (OECD) General Review Report to Turkey 2016, OECD countries split 5.2 per cent of the national income for education, Turkey 5.1. A friend of mine gave me a percentage. The source for the Ministry of National Education...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0149par0099	It's less of a religious business, isn't it, Minister? You can say that.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0138par0100	...which is reserved for the Board of Higher Education, which is reserved for universities, which is reserved for SNSM, which is divided into loans and dorms, makes 5.1 percent. However, it does not include the source which is reserved by private schools. Thus, this rate is higher when our citizens are provided with support and the expense of private schools. The OECD average for per student is $10,493, which is less than $5,000 in Turkey. It is not right to expect the OECD countries, which spend over $10,000 for each student who has received training, and the OECD countries that spend less than $5,000 on each student, to get the same result. Despite this concrete fact, we are getting better results from many countries that have more resources than we do.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0149par0101	We don't have money, so the kids didn't win! Tell me!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0138par0102	From now on, we'll work hard to give our children better education using the best resources available to us.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0149par0103	Tell the dianet to give you some money, Minister.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0138par0104	Our claim is that we care more about education than we've ever been given in the past. Our nation has seen our share of the budget. The more resources you invest in education, the more education you care about. We're shorthanded, we know that. We'll be able to do that for the next few years. We'll continue to work without making two days equal to each other. I would also like to point out that PISA is not enough to show a single country's level of education. In PISA, Vietnam is ahead of America in 2012 and 2015 in science and mathematics. Can we say from here that education in Vietnam is in front of America? It is not right to evaluate the education system of countries based on one measure.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0150par0106	I mean, we're crawling on the floor at PISA.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0138par0107	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, another matter, the situation at TIMSSS. Look, TIMSS measures the information given to the student at school, the PISA measures the current application of information in life. In education, we are the same as France, with Turkey's score in 2011 and in the 4th grade in 2015. The $44,000 per person in France is now under $10,000 per person. Although he has much more resources than we do, it is clear that education in Turkey is on the right track, if we are receiving the same result in TIMS (TIMSS) as France, which spends $90,000 a year per student. Another result in TimSS, which is in eighth-grade science. Here we are in the same situation as Italy. Italy's national income per capita is $37,000, and its student spends $85,000 a year. And it's clear from here that in the 8th grade, in all respects, our scores are increasing in every way in TimSS. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're going to say what we did, what you didn't do. We'll tell you what we've accomplished, you'll tell us what we're missing. We'll show you the full side of the glass, you show the empty side. Mr. President, five minutes from my friends.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0151par0113	Go ahead. I'll take them.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0138par0115	We will inspire hope, you despair. We say it's getting better, you say it's getting worse. And the last word and the final decision will be made by our people. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It will not be judged by what he does, but by what he does, and we will tell our people what we do. The eyes of the people are scales; they know best what we do, why we do, and how we do it, and the people give us our report card. We are confident that our country will come. We trust our people. He doesn't neglect anything, he gives everyone their dues. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers would not go to Mahir Robert College in Cheezy, if education had gone bad.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0152par0120	Don't give a single example, Mr. Secretary, this is all one example. You're lying to yourself about what you said.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0138par0121	If the education had gone wrong, Nursel TEOG.... wouldn't have solved 120 of the 120 problems in Ercish. If the training had gone wrong, Hazel Berfin of Edremit, of Van's Edremit, would not have been the first in the TEOG, Ezgi Beytaş of Varto, and Marya Polat TEOG of Diyadin, of Ağrı. I have studied Jonah Special from Şırnak İdil. He says...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0153par0122	In Aladağ, 11 of our daughters did not burn.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0154par0123	Congressmans, please don't interfere.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0138par0124	Because of terrorism, our school was shut down, and I was trained to make amends. If the education had gone bad, despite the compensation training, my special brother in Şırnak, Yunus, would not have been the first in the TEOG. There's also Baran İnan, who solves not 120 problems -- but 119 -- in the same district. He says, "Thank you, national education."
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0155par0125	Mr. Secretary, this is what you have to do. Of course, there will always be a 1st.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0138par0126	We're hopeful, we'll give everyone an equal opportunity in education. These results clearly show that we have distanced ourselves from this issue.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0155par0127	Does this boast that he has won from Van, because he has won from Edremit? That's your job.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0138par0128	Mr. President, there's a question from a friend of ours, "Are there people who choose living dialects?" It's a strange year, in total, chosen by 746 of our students. The Georgian was chosen and educated by our 4,910 students, Adi28 based on Cyrillic alphabet, 55,654 in Kurdish, 2,002 in Lazca, and 4.910 in Zazaca. Again, will another friend of ours be the cheap labor force of apprentices? ILO says, "Is it in accordance with your contracts?" No. 138 of the ILO. In the minimum age convention, apprentice students were also excluded from their age and were not considered workers. Article 6 of the contract states that those who have been approved by the authority and are part of a training program, which is largely or fully run in a workplace, are not included in the age limit.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0156par0130	There are schools without teachers, teachers without schools, Minister, what do you say?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0138par0131	Again, another matter, Mr. President, why did you start the project school?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0156par0132	You've got an account.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0138par0133	If we hadn't started the project school practice, science schools today wouldn't be in this quality, and I want to make it very, very clear.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0157par0134	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0158par0135	How many science schools are there, Mr. Secretary, if we rate?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0159par0136	Do you believe what you're saying, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0160par0137	Make no mistake, we don't say what we don't believe. What is the reason for the reduction of the budget of the NGO? The Public Staff Selection Exam is being conducted in preliminary and secondary school exams in the double years, so the budget of the SNSI is increasing then. Since it will not be done in 2017, the budget of the OSYM is lower. Again, there was a question of what will you do with 20 universities with low budgets? Most of these will be supported by the Ministry of Development and Development, with a project to support regional development-oriented universities. Again, another member of parliament asked, "What is the need for doctoral human resources?" 1416 of the Ministry of National Education is under way. For the first time this year, the RDS grants 2,000 Ph.D.s. In Turkey's top 100 areas, 2,000 people will be granted a satisfactory doctoral scholarship again. Again, we will support scientific research projects as governments.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0161par0141	For the last 30 seconds, let me know if there's a posting in February.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0160par0142	I say, "Everyone knows that education, despite the fact that it's been separated from this national income, has been on a good path, even though we've doubled it many times in the past years. Hopefully next semester... we know our shortcomings. We need to follow the rest of our students, and the PISA says we need to follow the rest of the teachers, that's what he says. Again, it says that in the last three months, one of the two students in the OECD countries goes to vocational education, one of the four in Turkey, and we are aware of that lack. In pre-school education... we have 46.5 percent of those who don't receive pre-school education -- based on the PlSA student -- it's less than 5 percent in OECD. Thus, I can tell you that when we receive preschool education in the coming period, we will be in a very good place in PISA. Again, I wish the 2017 budget to be a blessing to both our Ministry of National Education and our universities, the Higher Education Board and the OSD. He said well, and our friends are education, national education; the common issue of everyone is Turkey's future. Anyone who trusts Turkey's future should take national education out of the question. In PISA, Finland has been falling for four periods, but once Turkey fell, you caused so much apocalypse. Go, and when you think about it for four years in Finland -- and what are we being given as an example of Finland's education -- why is education their common concern, and here it is ours alone? But hopefully, if we're alone, we won't walk this path alone, we'll walk it with our people. The light days will be with us. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0162par0150	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0163par0151	Mr. Secretary, you were three, and we're not criticizing you for falling into fourth place, you were already 50. Finland has fallen from three to four.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0162par0152	We've had six minutes, three minutes each from the other ministers, so you've got 17 minutes each. Yes, it is now up to our Minister of Youth and Sports, Mr. Akif Çazatay Kılıç. Here you are, Mr. Sword. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 17 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0164par0157	Guys, no applause, ten cheers, still clapping, no applause! Let's not do this again.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0165par0158	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute our Veteran Assembly. I'm here to present the budget for 2017 of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and discuss the final account for 2015. I thank the MPs of all parties who have been with us in our work and all of my colleagues who have worked in our activities, and I salute you all again with love and respect. I wish that the two suns of Jihan, sent as a mercy to the world by our Lord Muhammad (SAV), would bring blessings to all mankind on this day, the day in which we understand the honors of the world, a thousand four hundred and forty and forty-five years, and I celebrate the name of Mevlit Kandili, of our nation and of all the worlds of Islam. Dear MPs, as you all know, last night we faced a treacherous terrorist attack in Beşiktas, Istanbul. After the Beşiktaş-Bursaspor match is over, we have martyrs and wounded in a treacherous attack. 38 of our sons have been martyred, 30 of them, according to our current knowledge, our fellow police officers, and unfortunately, my citizen from Samsun, our police officer, Mustafa Ozturk, is among our martyrs. I pray for God's mercy to them all, and I pray for speedy healing to our veterans. As soon as this attack is heard, of course, our entire government, the President and the Prime Minister's directives have initiated all the necessary work needed to clarify the situation, and we have made it clear once again that such attacks on this nation's soul and its noble stance will not take away anything. Highly valued MPs, you know, on the night of July 15th this summer, the coup attempters led by the traitoral terrorist organization have also bombed this Grand Assembly, bombing our Presidential Council, the Prime Minister, and many other institutions in our country. However, with our President's signal and our Prime Minister's firm stance, our nation has also ruled out this coup attempt.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0166par0163	Yes, and the position of Mr. Gardeny.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0165par0164	Very valuable lawmakers would like to state that we are starting to serve today's young people, especially today's future, in the field of our ministry, and I will be able to give you some information about these studies in a moment. Other areas, of course, are our achievements and work, especially in the field of sports, which we need to improve and enhance. And I'm about to share some insights with you about that. We do not hold back from any effort so that the university youth we have reached by the power of the Office of Higher Education Loans and Homes can have a healthy, peaceful and successful education. Therefore, loans and scholarships that we have provided to our students have been increased by 789 per cent since 2002. Again, for the same purpose, the capacity of our homes within the Loan and Homes Association has been doubled in the last three years. I'd like to give you some information about the project and its activities run by our ministry, the central agency and its organisations. Our youth centers have practically been built like capillaries in different parts of our country. Currently, in 2016, the youth centers will reach 378. With our number and work that will soon be finished. As of December 1, 2016, 1 million 501,000 brothers and sisters were members of our youth centers in 2002. In different studies, with many workshops, we offer them a different kind of support here. In 2016, a total of 65,638 young people took advantage of our youth camps. In our 29 camps across Turkey, brothers and sisters from many different provinces have been able to meet and support each other. Of course, at the same time, our Ministry is one of the main officers of the Anti-Drug Action Plan, one of the main contractors in the work framework. In this sense, many of our trainers and many of our young ones have been given serious anti - addiction training. More than 65,000 young people have been reached with information and seminars on the use of substances, especially in regard to their damage. Of course, we have launched an investment support move in Eastern and Southeast Anatolia, and we are implementing more than 40 million investments in our work so far, our investments after today. Of course, the same will continue this year as we did in the previous years, when our young ones from many different provinces met together in Çanakkale, the 57th Regimental walks, and our walks in Sarıkamis. Our work at Dumlupınar will continue the same way. In this framework, we're doing serious work on our young people learning, living, and experiencing the culture from their history, the knowledge from their civilization. At the same time, we bring together many of our younger brothers, athletes, artists, and experts in their field, who specialize in different areas of our program. After July 15th, 34 programs have been set up in this framework, and 60,000 of our citizens have participated in these programs because we think that what happened on the night of July 15th should be shared, that experience should be transmitted, that it should never happen again. At the same time, we support more than 3 million Syrian refugee brothers and sisters in our country under the work we've done in both sports and youth studies. Of course, we continue to work in the most delicate way at the point of using the budgets given to us from our Parliament to implement these studies. The budgets we are envisioned for us this year are 182m liras for our central agency, and our budget for the Sports General Directorate is $1 billion,238m, 832,000, and the budget for the General Directorate for Higher Education Loans and Homes is 11 billion 336m 431,000 Turkish liras. We're entering into some very serious new breakthroughs within the scope of our investments in these budgets that we've been entrusted with. Mr. Saffet Sandzak, who just made his speech here, has brought up some of the figures that we're going to give to you in terms of installation, and I'd like to share with you what we're going to do with them: We have completed 37 of our 72 swimming pools under investments taken in the 2016 Investment Programme, which will continue in 2017. 329 football fields have been completed. Again, 183 of 284 gyms have been completed. 18 of the 30 athletic courses have been completed, and we have neighborhood-type projects going on, and I especially want to mention them here. Because in large facilities and many different facilities that we've built, of course, professionally, amateurly and also internationally, we've been working to raise athletes who will represent our country. But in the same way, we build football fields, basketball courts and volleyball fields in the neighborhoods as complex. The number of these is now up to 1,200. 830 of them were completed, and the rest continued to be built. We're happy with that to allow our young people and our children to do this kind of social activity within safe spaces by their families at the same time. Of course, we're still building stadiums. I know that Izmir has great expectations at this point.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0167par0178	I do.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0165par0179	Mr. Musa is here looking me in the eye.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0167par0180	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0165par0181	We've taken some serious steps on Izmir. You know, there was a judicial process, and thank God he was done, so the obstacles ahead were removed. In particular, Izmir Alsancak Stadium's project work has reached the final stage, and in a very short period of time, we're going to be in the tender and we're going to make it fast.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0168par0182	You come as a mall, you don't turn it into a mall, do you, Alsancak?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0165par0183	We have already completed and ongoing construction processes, and we're tracking them as close as we can. You know, our Prime Minister, the Izmir MP, is in very close pursuit of this issue. We have very valuable lawmakers, of course, in our sports centers, our disabled brothers and sisters, as well as many other athletes, who are seriously working on the upbringing. But I would like to make a specific point here: Yes, this summer in the Rio Paralympics and Olympic Games -- I said the paralympics especially first -- the achievements we've been waiting for, the achievements our country deserves, and the achievements it deserves, and the potential of Turkey. There's a success, but there has to be more, and we all agree on that. But I have to say that in order to achieve this success, we need to make a serious increase in coaching numbers. As a result of studies related to this, our number of trainers -- 18 thousand in 2002 -- is now up to 223,000, but that's not enough -- we need to grow more and earn more. Yes, foreign athletes are fighting under the flag of our country. Of course, it is our wish and purpose that our young people, raised in our country, represent the flag of our country. However, we also need to say that Escobar, who won the bronze medal in the Olympic Games, wrapped the Turkish flag above him and told the world that it belonged to Turkey. He is now in the process of quitting active sports, but he has come to us with a suggestion that he has made every sacrifice in order for our athletes to be brought up -- our brothers and sisters in our country -- to be able to raise them -- to settle down in Turkey and work with us. In that sense, we're going to continue this kind of work. Of course, we're not holding back on the fight against drugs at all, and as a result of our struggle, this year, I was assigned to the WADA Board of Directors representing our country a month ago. This is the success of our country, the most important image of our country's effort at a clean sports point, and I think it's a manifestation. Our work on athletic health continues at the highest level. We're going to get to very different points here, especially with the work we've done with our Ministry of Health. I'd like to thank our Ministry of National Education here. In the framework of our protocol with them, especially in the performance scans of our fellow students who have completed elementary school, and in this sense, we will continue to move forward by combining the infrastructure of our potential athlete candidates, using the infrastructure of the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Youth and Sports, so to speak, in this way closing our deficits. Of course, during the talks here, many issues have come up concerning the Credit and Housing Institution. I'd like to share some numbers with you. Currently, the capacity of the Credit and Housing Institution is 553,177 (as of today at 686 dorms; this is our bed capacity, and our current capacity is not 60 per cent, as in previous years, over 90 per cent. Of course, at the point of increasing these, we are in a very serious work as the Credit and Homes Association, and we are currently working to carry our capacity above 650,000 in the summer of 2017, along with our countries, which will end next year. We're doing this with our own personal investments, but also with pre-regulation and direct rental methods. Here, of course, the question that comes to mind is: What are their criteria when they do these things? These are made in the framework of clearly defined criteria and in the criteria that are open to everyone. Of course, we offer and continue to offer our students who reside in our university dorms, not only housing, but also opportunities for self-improvement. We are also implementing many different programmes in this framework, and I would also like to point out that our 4,446 students at the Loan and Housing Institution are now benefiting from their free housing. These are the children of our martyrs and veterans, our brothers and sisters who have passed away, our foster home students, and our students in financial necessity. At the same time, we provide 285 lira a month for our students who reside at the Credit and Housing Institution, which is equivalent to $9.5 a day. If the 50 cents of help in 2002 had come to an increase in TÜFE and TEFE, the number that would come to this day was a very different number, and in this sense, at the point where we are now, as I said, we are at $285. This would have been 1.42 if it had come the way I said it would. It's probably a clear sign of where we came from. Of course, there were some issues expressed in that sense, some of our MPs brought criticism of our institution and our ministry's work. All your criticisms are above our heads, and we will continue our work at the point of better service by taking advantage of them. However, if you make an accusation that our students are on top of each other and are being hoarded and hoarded, all of our lawmakers here know that this does not reflect the truth, because I know that there are a lot of demands coming to our MPs, but I do know how much the demands have now fallen, and I know that all of our MPs know very well what the standards of our homes and homes have come to. Of course, in the work done, one of our deputies said that if you want to stay at the Credit and Housing Institution, the reception rate is very low, 14 percent. This does not reflect the truth. 78% of our students who have applied for loans and dorms this year have settled in the Credit and Housing Institution as of today. It's a very different number, and it's a clear indication of where we're coming from again. These are the numbers that are obvious and reflect the truth. So, of course, our work will have critical support, but we also need to see what our work is. And as my last words, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome our esteemed MP, who, on February 12th-18th, will be YOF in Erzurum, youth games, and I would like to invite all of our deputies here, and I would also like to invite all of our deputies to participate in a hearing disability Olympics in Samsun from July 18th to July 30th, and I would like to invite all of our deputies here again. He thinks we should do all of our work in cooperation and unity, and at this point I especially ask that you all support us because our youth is our future. I don't think we should work in separate ways, we should work together, we should work together, support each other, complete each other. Of course, I'd also like to say that, yes, what we're getting at is a good point, but we have to earn better, we have to work. And we'll do it together, hopefully. From the time of our President's prime minister's presidency in the EC PARTY administrations, our investments under the leadership of our Prime Minister, Mr. Buli Yıldırım, will take us to a far more advanced point than the one I just counted. I want to thank all of you for your support in terms of budgeting for all of our MPs. I salute you all again with love.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0169par0199	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0170par0200	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0169par0201	Here you go, Mr. Sandzak. I'll give you a minute according to 60.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0170par0205	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary said something very nice. When it comes to youth, Turkish youth, we all have to work together. We're all supposed to bring our ideas here and help. That's right. In this context, the Minister has started a project with the Minister of National Education on children starting school and children finishing elementary school. That project was the project I proposed here on behalf of the National Movement Party. We also want to thank them for taking it into their own hands, taking it seriously, considering it, and putting it into practice. And from now on, we're ready for all the help we can get. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0171par0208	Thank you. 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Ministry of National Education for Central Management in 2015 1) The Board of Higher Education 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2017 is the chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) The Head of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2015 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account 2015 1) Sports General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Higher Education Loans and Homes Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Higher Education Credit and Homes Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2015 Central Management Final Account EPISODE AND KADISTRO GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2015 It is now up to Minister of Environment and Urbanism Mehmet Özhaseki. Here you go, Mr. Özhaseki. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Madam Secretary, your time is 17 minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0172par0244	Dear President, very dear MPs, I salute you all. First of all, this hand that occurred last night, I wish our martyrs mercy and my condolences to the rest. At the same time, with their presence on earth today, I once again celebrate the lamp of all believers for the birth anniversary of the Prophet God, who was our guide at the leading point of course. I wish that all men of God, like Muhammad, should have a conscience. I'm here today to present information on the work of our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and our Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate. I'll try to address the reviews on the one hand when I give them the information, just a little bit of an answer. At the same time, this information will be a summary of our 14-year-old AK PARTY government's work in environment and urbanism. If we start with the environmental section, the good lawmakers would say that life is about four things: air, water, soil, energy. Of course, in our faith, the environment is a trust, a trust that we, like our own soul, must protect; it is essential that the balance does not break. At that point, we have to act meticulously. Look, as a result of the work done over the past 14 years, I'll try to sum up what we've done with some numbers: at the point of solid waste regular storage facilities, Turkey had only 15 facilities in 2002, we have 82 facilities today; 1,091 municipalities are taking advantage of these facilities. We also produce 155MWs of electrical energy. Second point, wastewater treatment facilities. In 2002, we had wastewater treatment facilities that addressed only 35 percent of the population, and now we have wastewater treatment facilities that address 80 percent of our population. In addition, we have made plans to prevent pollution in seven basins, and we pay all municipalities 50% of electricity costs. In 14 years, we've also supported 11.894 projects as a minister. Again, another number: our blue flag beach number was 151, but in 2016, it went up to 444, and we are the world's second in rank. Again, we have 269 facilities in 2016, today, when we don't have a single facility at the point of ship-to-ship disposal, in 2002. In terms of air quality monitoring networks, we have only about 30 stations in 2002, and today, we have 229 stations in 2016. We've set up continuous emissions measurement systems, we're tracking them 24/7 on 562 chimneys in 255 facilities. We also took out the inventory of natural sites, and we passed them on to the numerical environments. Dear lawmakers, we are one of the least polluting countries of nature. We're still fighting. Look, some of our friends just talked about some of the numbers, some of the reports, and I'm going to try to give you some of the correct numbers, give or take a few of them. China is the most polluting country in the world, 25 per cent; India comes in second; then the United States comes in, 15 per cent; the European Union is 15 per cent.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0173par0254	Did you make that comparison in proportion to the population?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0172par0255	It's about the greenhouse gas emissions he threw out into the world, about the carbon.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0174par0256	Is there a field and population criteria, Minister?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0172par0257	It has nothing to do with the population. I'm talking about the rate of soiling the world.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0175par0258	You've counted two great countries, so...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0172par0259	Turkey is only polluting by 7 per thousand. Even though we've contaminated by seven percent of the time, we're still part of all international agreements. In 2004, we signed the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, signed the Kyoto Protocol in 2009, and sided with the Paris Treaty in 2016. After all these efforts, we are a country that received the Medal of Honor to Protect the Ozon Plate in 2012, 2014 and 2016. One of our friends, in particular, said that Turkey ranked 58th in its climate performance. Right, we got this report, too, written by a German NGO. His name is unknown, and he's called Germanwatch. Where it feeds, some targets, who it's written against, what it is, what it's called, what it's called, an uncertain group, a group that's not to be believed or trusted. We can't doubt ourselves because they showed us in the 58th place.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0176par0261	How do you know it's unbelievable if it's vague?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0172par0262	At this point, again, I want to say the proportions of soiling the world in the world's systems that are valid among themselves -- if you go on the Internet, you'll all see them -- if you go on the Internet. Qatar gives out 39 tons of carbon per person. OK, Qatar is Arab country. You can say, like, America gives 16.5 tons, Canada gives 15.9 tons, Russia gives 12.4 tons, Japan gives about 10 tons, Germany gives about 9.5 tons; Turkey only gives 6 tons. Let that German organization first look at its own country, criticize its own country, in fact, express an opinion about it. Turkey actually came up with the action plan, and by 2030, we have a map of the road, and we have about 21 percent of the pull back. It's a job well appreciated in all the world's work. In fact, there's a point here that maybe we all need to think about in a healthy way: the balance of environment and investment. And the best example of energy, we can say that. We're trying to do hydroelectricity, they're all being contested, and then they're all dying. It's like a non-responsive hydro plant doesn't exist. Okay, let's not do this, we're not a water-rich country; in fact, all of our water is about half the amount of Danube. But let's not, okay, don't let the biodiversity die. We're coming to nuclear: nuclear danger, don't do that. The speakers always say that. But, you know, there are 443 nuclear plants in 31 countries now, there are 443 nuclear plants in 31 countries; there are 99 in America; there are 58 in France; I'm telling you, there are nine in Germany; there are 34 in Russia.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0177par0265	Is there a new builder, a new builder?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0172par0266	Yeah, don't get excited, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0178par0267	Mr. Secretary, everyone's given up; they've come from 14 per cent to 10 per cent now, the nuclear power plant and it's going down in energy production.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0172par0268	Currently, there are nine constructions in Russia, one in France and five in the United States are under way, and construction is under way. You close your eyes, don't listen to any of this, don't listen to anything I say, keep talking from there.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0178par0269	Oh, we're not closing our eyes, Mr. Secretary, you really don't know.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0172par0270	Look, put a compass on the Eiffel Tower in Paris, draw a line in the 200km radius, with six nuclear plants in it.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0178par0271	Maybe, but they're all giving up.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0179par0272	He did it a hundred years ago, a hundred years ago!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0172par0273	What's he giving up?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0179par0274	The minister of France has made a statement.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0172par0275	Then why is France doing it? Why is America following five facilities?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0180par0276	Look at the Department of Energy website.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0179par0277	Solar's turning to energy, Mr. Secretary. You want to slaughter the environment.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0172par0278	Friends, you continue to object to energy again.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0180par0279	We don't object, look at the Department of Energy website.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0172par0280	Look, guys, I'll tell you what.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0180par0281	You really don't know the subject, you're defending it for nothing.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0181par0282	Congressmans, let's not interfere, please. Let's not interfere, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0182par0284	There are six of them within 200 kilometers of Paris, not a threat to Paris.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0183par0285	There's sustainable energy; there's sun, there's wind, there's solar, there's fusion energy.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0182par0286	There are nine nuclear facilities around London.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0184par0287	Mr. Secretary, check out the Department of Energy website.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0182par0288	There are four facilities around Madrid. I'm sorry, but Romania, 200 miles, there's a facility...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0184par0289	Oh, yes, that's right, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0182par0290	...there's a facility in Ermenistan and they're all close to us.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0184par0291	Mr. Secretary, I do, it's true, but I wish you'd read the Department of Energy website.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0182par0292	Dear friends, we've given up nuclear, and we're giving up nuclear because you don't want to. Well, it's time for the thermal...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0184par0293	You know why I say give up? You spend $38 billion, you do the same at the thermal plant for $6 billion, so I say give it up.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0182par0294	In South Africa...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0184par0295	Look, give it up for him...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0185par0296	Mr. Akar, please don't interfere.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0182par0297	Go online and find out how much it costs. The cheapest system is the termite.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0184par0298	Yeah, I've got...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0182par0299	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, it's nuclear, the cheapest is nuclear.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0184par0300	Termik, look, 1 megawatt costs 2 million euros in nuclear, thermal power plant, 600,000 euros. You really don't know, Mr. Secretary, you don't know.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0186par0301	Don't you pay that every year?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0182par0302	Listen to me patiently.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0187par0303	Mr. Akar, please, this has gone to a mutual dialogue. This can't happen. Mr. Secretary, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0188par0305	Minister, didn't he refuse the Swiss to leave the nuclear power plant?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0189par0306	Guys, it's time for the thermals.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0190par0307	At least talk about what you know.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0189par0308	Now, everyone uses the thermal, but let's not use it. Look, South Africa gets 92.8 percent of its energy from coal. You'll say, past Africa, and from the countries of the European Union, I say: Poland is 84.2%; Czech Republic is 53.8%; Germany is 45.6%...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0191par0309	Tell me why Switzerland refused, Switzerland.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0189par0310	The United States of America is 38.3; Turkey's energy from coal alone is 28 percent, so shouldn't we produce this too? Sir, it's too dirty, it's dangerous to make lignite, so don't produce it.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0192par0311	No one's saying that, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0189par0312	Germany is currently the first in the world to produce lignite in the world, Russia is the second in the world, Poland is the third in the world.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0192par0313	Look, we said no small talk, but you're talking all wrong.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0189par0314	Will you please shut up for a second? Just shut up for a second!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0192par0315	Look, we don't mean to be rude, but you're not saying the right thing, it doesn't suit a Minister.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0189par0316	Oh, come on, in a little while, you'll take your word for it and you'll tell me what you know.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0192par0317	I mean, it doesn't really suit you, so say the right thing. You don't know energy, please don't talk.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0193par0318	Mr. Akar, please don't interfere, please don't interfere.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0189par0319	Shame on you, you're not ashamed!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0193par0320	Mr. Secretary, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0194par0321	Why did I say something bad?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0189par0322	Why are you yelling, brother?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0194par0323	Did I say something bad? Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0195par0324	Mr. Secretary, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0189par0325	Have we said anything to your speakers so far? You're shameless. Why are you shouting, brother? It's amazing!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0195par0326	Mr. Secretary, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0196par0327	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0197par0328	For God's sake! Talk about yourself, don't say things you don't know.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0198par0329	You're lying, you don't even know what you're talking about.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0199par0330	You're against the dam, you're against the road, you're against everything.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0200par0331	Well, for the sake of these friends, we've given up the lignite, and we're not using coal, guys. It's time for the sun...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0198par0332	No, ask him what he wants, Minister.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0200par0333	Excuse me, guys, just a minute.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0201par0334	You're against the bridge... what are you doing, what are you going to do?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0202par0335	He says you don't want it, why shouldn't we?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0203par0337	Guys, it's coming from this group now, please. For God's sake! Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0204par0339	And the sun, of course, for destroying 20,000 square meters of space for 1 MVA, we're against the sun.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0205par0340	Oh, shit!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0204par0341	All right, let's do the wind. Friends, what are we going to do?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0206par0342	Keep them in the dark...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0204par0343	Two things remain, folks: look, we're not going to use any electricity from now on, no one's going to use electricity.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0206par0344	Have them light a fire.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0204par0345	Is that even possible? No. There's a second way: we're going to be dependent on the outside; we're going to take natural gas, we're going to produce electricity, or we're going to buy energy, so we're going to survive. Which of the two possibilities do you prefer? We don't want either, guys.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0207par0347	Use sustainable energy.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0208par0348	Let's not contaminate the environment, let's take it from the outside.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0204par0349	And we're going to do the nuclear that the whole world uses, and we're going to do the termite that the whole world uses...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0207par0350	Sustainable energy, citizen cancer.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0204par0351	... We'll use the sun, we'll use the wind, we'll produce our energy, God willing, we won't be dependent on anyone.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0207par0353	Don't let people have cancer.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0204par0354	And in this geography, if anyone's thinking about being dependent on the outside, I'm doubting their goodwill, too, my friends. Dear friends, look, when we come to the area of urbanism, of course we strive for healthy, identified, environmentally friendly cities with an understanding that guides planning, guides local governments.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0209par0356	I can tell by the traffic, by the traffic!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0204par0357	In this sense, we have completed 97 percent of the environmental arrangement plans. We've completed all of our coastal shoreline detections. We're also doing some new construction work. We're particularly trying to bring discipline to the changes in the zoning plan that everyone is complaining about. We're trying to make arrangements for the public to get a share of the value increase, and we're going to bring it here soon, and we're going to bring all the efforts we can in the area of regular urbanization here in the coming days. We also know that we're in an earthquake belt, we're at risk, and our homes are in grave danger. In this sense, in 2012, we came up with a very good law as AK PARTI rulings: the law of urban transformation. In 50 cities, we declared 192 risky areas, and in 81 cities, we started the transformation by declaring over 407,000 risky buildings. It concerns 3 million citizens. But we don't think that's enough, we need to do this much faster, and we need to do it much faster. And in that sense, we're gathering urbanism. And of course, we'll have answers to that at our meetings in the coming days. Another issue, my friends, is the disaster of the separatist terrorist organization in the southeast with a declaration of pit politics and self-government. Thousands of houses were destroyed in those areas. Those areas didn't have infrastructure anyway, so now it's time for them to be rehabilitated. As a state, we have to go and build the home of the people whose homes have been destroyed, and we have to build the infrastructure of those areas; it's the government. What have we done so far? First we did damage assessments, considered objections, then we removed heavy damage, devastating debris, and then we started negotiating compromises. When citizens object, we evaluate those objections one by one, and then we try to build their homes if we find land in the ruins, or we detect reserve spaces. We've made plans to build, we've made nationalizations, and we've started a study in all our cities. But it's not that easy. Look, what we were trying to do in Sur is that, in fact, there is a protection plan within the Wall, and we are trying to remain completely faithful to it. If we can do that, we'll probably have the best job we can do for Sur.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0210par0361	The ban is still on the wall. In May, it was said that it was finished. For nine months, and you continue to tear it down.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0204par0362	In Diyarbakir, in particular, there are thousands of houses being built at the site of Ghodobezi, the Trikuyus, and in three months we can deliver about a thousand homes. I mean, when a citizen turns around and says: "I want an outside house from this position. We can give you his house. I want to build my house in its place. Thank God, we're doing projects, we're paying for the house that was destroyed, he can do it in his place.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0210par0363	It's winter, it's winter, Mr. Secretary, it's winter.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0204par0364	We offer them whatever alternatives there are. Secondly...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0211par0366	There won't be a speck left.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0212par0367	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0213par0368	Why don't you shut up?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0214par0369	We're listening, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0215par0370	Are you going to beat me up? What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0216par0371	There won't be a speck left. He's gonna be fine.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0217par0372	Please, Mr. Lawmakers... Mr. Secretary, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0218par0374	No, I'm saying something to the Minister.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0219par0375	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0218par0376	The winter is here, the ban is going on. I say, what could be more normal than that?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0220par0377	Historical artifacts are being restored there.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0219par0378	There won't be any more terror, he says. What is it? What kind of language is that?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0218par0379	No, people are on the street right now, people are on the street in Şırnak.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0221par0380	Get him up, let him talk over there.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0222par0381	Minister, you go ahead, we're listening.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0223par0382	Congressmans, I beg you, it's not elegant. Mr. Secretary, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0224par0384	Friends, many historical artifacts are being restored within the Sur...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0225par0385	The decency, the decency! What the hell is that?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0226par0386	I think you should tell him.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0224par0387	...the most beautiful works you can think of, including the Bullet mosque and the Orthodox church there. The Street Health Project has begun in front of the Great Mosque. At Vezi Street and Melik Ahmet Street, in six or eight months' time, the whole street will be healthy, clean and clear. In the vicinity of the sacred Solomon Mosque, they are now out of occupational work, and I believe the tender was made a day or two ago, and a very large area was declared a recreation area; it is being done. Again, the Tigris Valley Project is a 320,000 square metre park, which will probably start construction in 15 days. On the other hand, in Alipaşa, Lalebey District, we'll show them how to build traditional Diyarbakır houses in the best possible way. In our other counties, for example, we are able to give homes in the third month. We are able to give homes five or six months later, and we are able to give homes to a citizen who says, "I don't want to count all the houses -- I don't want to count all the other counties -- my house was destroyed in a year's time."
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0227par0393	What are you going to do now?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0224par0394	If the citizen comes to us, he says: "Yes, I want to buy from the houses you built. " From the day he vacated the first house, he receives $695 in rent allowance. When did he empty his house? Six months ago. He's getting rent benefits starting six months ago. If the contents are destroyed, we pay 12 percent of the cost of the house at the price of goods. In the meantime, we're already getting reinforcements from time to time. Now, sometimes I look at what our friends are talking about, and it's like the Turkish Armed Forces don't have a job, and on a bored day he says, "Let me go and beat them up and wash them all over." Have a heart, have a heart! We're not the ones who win the pit, we're not the ones who plant those rags as flags.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0228par0397	Mr. President, give the Minister a minute for interrupting.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0224par0398	We're not the ones who divide by self-government. We just went there, trying to repair the damage. In fact, I think we're out of time, and I salute you all. I wish him well.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0229par0401	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0230par0402	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0229par0403	Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0230par0404	He's saying that we're against everything, Mr. Secretary, about the energy he's talking about out of his own concern, about nuclear, thermal power plants. That's not true. I'm not going to tease you. I'm not going to...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0229par0405	I mean, did you take him personally? I don't want you to...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0230par0406	Yes, we were offended because he was telling us, Mr. President. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0229par0407	You're not against it. Then please state that you're not against it in two minutes. Let's not afford another tease. You're going to call nuclear, thermal, everything okay. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0231par0412	Yes, dear friends, dear lawmakers; Minister of Environment and Urbanism, as he did in the last part, if he had told us how to make the people who destroyed those homes in Cizre and Tyre, then again, Minister of Environment and Urbanism...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0232par0413	Why didn't you listen to him? Your head's somewhere else.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0231par0414	You said the last part.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0232par0415	I told you what we did in Cizre.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0231par0416	If Mr. Secretary had made it to the last part... I mean, if you'd made all your calls about your own Ministry. You're not listening again. Listen to what I'm saying.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0233par0417	But since it's about the environment, he had to tell them.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0231par0418	Again, if you had told us about TOKI, how you would have solved the negatives in Tokyo...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0234par0419	What's it got to do with us, the Department of Environment and Urbanism?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0231par0420	The solution to the environment... you know, in Samsun, we've all been through the floods and the houses they built on the creek bed.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0234par0421	What does the Department of Environment and Urbanism have to do with it?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0235par0422	Mr. Secretary, he's already short-term, so please don't interfere.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0234par0423	He's objecting to my speech, so I can't get him to talk either.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0236par0424	Again, if you had told us how the military areas were evacuated and given to the TOKI (TİKI), we would really have listened to you here.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0237par0425	Where does TOKI depend, Mr. Haydar?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0234par0426	You're doing the same thing I am, you're not doing anything else.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0236par0427	But you got into things that weren't about you, and you became an energy expert.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0234par0428	I know very well, you don't understand.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0238par0429	TOKI depends on the Prime Minister. You don't even know where he's connected?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0236par0430	Look, guys, as the Republican People's Party, we're not opposed to nuclear power or thermal power plants or hydro power plants or renewable energy sources.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0239par0431	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0238par0432	Do you know where the TOKI is connected?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0236par0433	If we need it, we need to identify it first.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0240par0434	I do.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0236par0435	No, I don't. It's going to generate 9.200 megawatts of energy, you don't know.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0240par0436	I know, I know better than you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0236par0437	You're going to generate 9.200 megawatts of energy and invest $38.6 billion in producing that energy. When you produce the same energy with a thermal power plant, it's only a $6 billion investment. Energy production at the thermal plant was cheaper than a nuclear power plant, cheaper than a hydropower plant. In order to generate 1 megawatt energy for a thermal plant, it takes $600,000 to invest $2 million in the nuclear plant to generate energy. This is not enough; the raw material is foreign, the maintenance work is foreign, the spare part is foreign. You don't know where to evaluate the waste, and the world doesn't know it.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0241par0438	Where are we going to generate energy from, Mr. Haydar? Where do we generate energy from?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0236par0439	In addition, electricity production of nuclear energy has dropped from 14 percent in the last decade, friends.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0242par0440	Time's up, time's up.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0236par0441	Just so you know, I hope the Minister found out.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0243par0442	Thank you. Mr. Thunderbolt, according to 60.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0244par0447	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. Secretary, I'm afraid we're used to this in your government: no matter what concrete question we ask, you have no chance of answering our concrete questions, except to pass on the ready text you've received. Look, you define the Law on Disaster 6306 as the Law of Disaster, we define it as the Law of Disaster, and in one of your sentences, you said that it didn't already have infrastructure, it wasn't very habitable.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0245par0450	Yes, because your municipalities don't work.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0244par0451	We're talking about a 5,000-year-old city, Mr. Secretary, where there's been an uninterrupted life for 5,000 years.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0245par0452	The municipalities didn't serve because they were digging holes, so they didn't have infrastructure, they were a mess.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0244par0453	Okay, I'll tell you this: the commanders of the operations that were doing those operations at Surdek, barricaded, you said it in Sur, Şırnak, Cizre, Cleopatra, Yüksekova, all of them are in there now on terrorist charges, all of them inside. On the wall, in Cizre, in Silopi, in Şırnak, in Turkey's southeastern province. We didn't charge anyone.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0246par0455	Who dug the pits, who dug the pits! Did you go and dig, then tell me. Who dug the pits?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0244par0456	We don't say that to scribble.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0247par0457	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0244par0458	Behold, ye have destroyed a city there, and ye have made an excuse for it.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0248par0459	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0244par0460	And...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0248par0461	There was no PKK, no armed organization there, and they didn't put their rags up as flags, did they?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0244par0462	So, where are they spending the winter? Mr. Secretary, do you have a problem with where they're spending the winter?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0249par0463	Mr. Yıldırım, you've said your piece.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0248par0464	Turn around and say something to them, say a line, tell them to those bastards with guns!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0244par0465	You let them in as terrorists.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0248par0466	There's their...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0250par0467	Mr. Lightning, please...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0244par0468	You're new, be patient, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0248par0469	How can we tolerate those who stand behind armed organizations if you love God?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0244par0470	Be patient with the criticism.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0251par0471	Mr. Lightning, please...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0252par0472	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0251par0473	Mr. Horseman, what did you want to say?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0253par0474	Mr. President, are we going to answer questions?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0251par0475	One second, we'll pass, one second, there's another speaker.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0254par0476	Mr. President, I don't intend to take any promises, but Mr. Secretary is misleading the public by saying the nuclear power plant is the cheapest investment. The nuclear plant's investment cost is $25 billion, and it offers us $12.5 dollars, cents per kilowatt hour, the most expensive and acquisition guarantee in the world.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0251par0477	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0254par0478	Waste problems and other health and environmental problems also bring an added burden. If the Minister doesn't have enough information, I'll inform him, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0255par0479	Is there really a problem with nuclear health?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0254par0480	Mr. Secretary, I'm a doctor.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0255par0481	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0254par0482	Yeah, nuclear's got health issues.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0255par0483	There's no health problems in nuclear, it's the least human-destructive organization.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0254par0484	I'll introduce you, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0255par0485	Sure.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0256par0486	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0257par0487	Your group spoke, and I made a promise on behalf of the group. Now, the last word of today's speech, against which it belongs, is the Adana MP.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0256par0489	As a Diyarbakır MP, I'm not interested in Sur...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0257par0490	Look, I'm sorry, not every congressman can get up and ask for a word on every subject that's been spoken of, we don't have that kind of procedure.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0256par0491	But Sur..
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0257par0492	I made a promise to Mr. Yıldırım on behalf of your group. Now, on behalf of the last speaker in the name of the person at Meral Danış Beştaş, I have invited him to the stand. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş. Despite the end of the curfew on March 9, 2016, why is the Minister of Interior still going on?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0258par0495	Mr. President, shall we answer the question?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0257par0496	Before the question-answer, I invited the speaker. Mr. Danış Beştaş...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0259par0498	Why is it still burning down? There's no fighting ground there.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0257par0499	If you ask questions. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0260par0502	Although the conflict has been over since March 2016, it has been banned for ten months.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0257par0503	He's the last speaker on the stand. Here you go. 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Ministry of National Education for Central Management in 2015 1) The Board of Higher Education 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2017 is the chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) The Head of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2015 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account 2015 1) Sports General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Higher Education Loans and Homes Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Higher Education Credit and Homes Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2015 Central Management Final Account EPISODE AND KADISTRO GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2015
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0261par0536	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let me ask my friend, Mr. Minister: Why is the curfew still under way since March 9, 2016, when not a single gun has been fired in Sur, and why is it that people's victimship is folded in the winter conditions every day? We really want you to answer that. Hundreds of thousands of people living in Tyre are now waiting to go home and live there. I'd like to ask this question on behalf of our Diyarbakır MP and on behalf of the HDP. Dear friends, today we began the day when there was really no teasing, no applause, but unfortunately, by evening, that compromise was lost again. I'd like to express that we have received this with sadness. As I walked to the bench, they spoke in the order of the ruling party without shame. I heard at least two voices in the form of the ruling party. I can't name names, but since I've heard, I'd like to share that. We have nothing to be ashamed of, our forehead is open, our head is high - nod your head -- the ruling party is primarily responsible for the deaths that are happening now, the loss of lives.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0262par0538	There are six of these worlds, six of them! I don't mean to say it like that. I mean, I don't mean to say it like that, okay? You can't be white!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0261par0539	If the ruling party, which operates with 40,000 policemen and continues these operations all over Turkey, is still unable to prevent these explosions, their -- I mean, I'm not telling all the lawmakers, I'm telling the MP who doesn't. I'm telling you -- he needs to take responsibility for this on his own first. We are the opposition party, and it is our duty to say the wrongs, to criticize the power, to guide the right way. But you're in charge, remember that. Dear friends, life and life outside don't go on like it does in Congress, it doesn't really go on anywhere. We've been listening to the ministers at budget meetings for over a week. When you listen, I assure you, I often get this feeling that, well, are we having another thing, are we hallucinating? I'm going to Sur. I'm off to the streets; I'm going to Diyarbakir to take a security check in three steps; I'm coming here, and all the ministers are drawing a beautiful Turkey. Yeah, let's drop it. We can never come up with a solution without facing facts. The job of politics is to create solutions. A congressman just said, "You can't leave the photos there -- his own group laughed, but I'll tell you what -- you're aiding and abetting." He's not here right now. Yesterday, Mr. Minister of Interior Noble, when they didn't go -- the MPs -- the state would demonstrate its power as a man; of course it would be. He said, "It would be so." We find those threats very unfortunate indeed. I agree to respond to those threats at that level.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0263par0542	It's unfortunate that you're having this conversation.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0261par0543	If a Home Secretary is threatening to turn into a group, he's at the bottom of weakness.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0263par0544	You're being sarcastic, you're being sarcastic.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0261par0545	His duty is to establish peace in this country; his duty is not to make arrests of MPs.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0263par0546	Judicial arrest, judgment.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0261par0547	Because in the same way, the Speaker of the House would walk out of this bench as if he were the Attorney General, as if he were the warden of the prison, and claim against Mr. Demirtaş.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0263par0548	Independent justice has been arrested.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0261par0549	I'm just saying, under the circumstances, he made a mistake reading the allegations.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0264par0550	Why do you take offense? He told me about the war on terror, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0261par0551	Come on, let's all do our part. Prosecutors, if your heart is strong enough, remove your hand from the judiciary, remove custody over the judiciary. For the judgment is now in custody over us; the judgment is now in custody over the House. This is the shame of Turkey. Co-Chair of a party Figen Yüksekdağ -- I've spoken to the current lawyer -- wants to give him the fax number for the room of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for questions motions. No notes, no paper, he wants to write on his arm, on his arm. I'll go and write the motions in a fax. It says here, dear friends, that he is not allowed to write on his arm, that he is not allowed to write on his arm. A lawyer goes in, waits for hours at the door, the attorney is not allowed in, he is held alone. He called it crying, and no one will see us crying. Don't worry about it, we don't cry. We're fighting for a democratic life.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0265par0552	You'll have more to answer for!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0261par0553	We have been chosen to bring the people's demands and opinions to this House.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0266par0554	Aren't those martyrs the people, the mother of the martyrs the people? Defend for them, defend for them.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0261par0555	So it's our job, all of us, to take care of this democratic life. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And it is not a constant taunt from it. If we don't listen to each other, we don't understand anything.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0267par0558	Thank you. Thus, the talks of the sixth round are complete. Now, we'll proceed with the question-answer process. We'll do the QA in 20 minutes. Ten minutes of this time will be a question and ten minutes will be used by our ministers as an answer time. Yeah, I'm taking turns reading the MPs who hacked into the system. Mr. Clumsy... no. Mr. Irgil, instead of Mr. Yılim.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0268par0565	Thank you, Mr. President. I couldn't ask the minister some questions because the content of this morning's conversation changed due to terrorism. I'd like to ask our Minister of National Education a few very clear questions. I was gonna ask you in my speech, but... Mr. Secretary is talking about openness and transparency. I'm asking you clearly. It's two months till February. That's what the public is asking, and it's our job to reflect these questions on you, and we want a clear answer: is there going to be an appointment in February? How much will it be? Is it going to be contractual? Tell me that, please. And if it's not gonna happen, tell them it won't because people have to make their plans. When will the suspended teachers or teachers who can't work now but have not been convicted begin to work? And in particular, when will the return of the suspended ones be completed? Because education is failing, and you're saying, there's a lack of teachers. I'd appreciate it if you'd answer my questions.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0269par0570	Mr. Bektaşoğlu instead of Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0270par0571	Thank you. Mr. Minister, our country's biggest problems are the undergraduate unemployment issue. The number of graduates of universities of applied sciences is the largest in the number of unemployed college students. Four years of college graduates have the advantage of being a reserve officer or a short-term soldier. A similar arrangement for the graduates of university pre-graduates in the form of subservient Petty Officers is an expectation of our graduate students at these schools. I've proposed a law to the Speaker of Parliament on this matter. In addition to providing a limited number and employment period, auxiliary petty officership will also increase demand for vocational institutes and vocational upper secondary schools that are studying with very few students. The higher the demand for these schools, the higher the preference rate for successful students. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0271par0574	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0272par0575	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, last week the City of Mersin has given 68 families of martyrs who live within the borders of Tarsus, all of them, one apartment with swimming pools on the site, free of charge. I'd like to thank the city council of Tarsus and our mayor for taking care of the families of the martyrs. I demand that this be an example to all of Turkey, that all of our municipalities be given housing through TOKI, even though they cannot afford it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0273par0578	Mr. Ahrazoglu...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0274par0579	Thank you, Mr. President. TÜRK EDUCation-SEN teachers and school administrators are being persecuted and persecuted as if they were not taught on July 15th. Do you intend to conduct an investigation into teachers and administrators who have been removed from their duties and under duress because they are not AKP members? Also, when will your power, which has not been able to solve this problem for 14 years, which has been forced to stay in and homes because of the lack of home and home capacity of the Credit and Housing Institution, or will it be directed to other foundations, other congregations? Because when we look at the numbers given here, it's said that 680,000 students were placed and that a 22% of the population was left blank. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0275par0583	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0276par0584	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is blessed Mevlit Kandili. And I wish all the world to be a cause of peace and a celebration of Mevlit Kandili. Last night in Istanbul, I condemn the attack on the lives of more than 40 people, which caused more than 150 people to be injured. In the same way, I strongly condemn the mud media that has made headlines about the presidential news and has not reported this attack very little or nothing. My question to the Minister of Environment and Urbanism: the mountains of Adıyaman have been torn apart due to the marble furnaces. Most businesses say they don't have CED reports, and they're known for that. Adıyaman, did you have an attempt on this natural slaughter, or do you have a project?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0277par0588	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0278par0589	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, congratulations to the blessed Mevlit Kandili, of the Turkish Islamic world. I ask for mercy on our martyrs in Istanbul. Mr. Minister of National Education, many teachers from Turkey's Education-SEN have been suspended for no reason and are waiting for the investigations to end, but the investigations of the suspended teachers have been conducted at the speed of light and returned. When will the investigations of Turkish teachers be over, and when will Turkish Education-SEN be reinstated? Again, most of the vocational high school students have dorm problems. When will these children's dorm problems be resolved? Again, Mr. Secretary, this issue of hiring a contract teacher is not a solution, we've expressed it over and over again. Non-formation candidates, even non-teachers, continue to be appointed teachers. According to the KPSS results, when will 455,000 teachers be assigned to the post? Mr. Minister of Youth and Sports, there are problems with student dorms. This year, we've received applications and demands of students more than ever before. When will these children's housing needs be met? Do you expect these children to go to the gates of other congregations now? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0279par0596	Mr. Arik instead of Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0280par0597	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Minister of Environment and Urbanism: Mr. Secretary, a newspaper was collected recently before it was suddenly published in the middle of the night, demanding to report that the waste products of a mining company, which have been alleged to be your partner, have contaminated the environment and the toxic waste is buried in the wild. This news is true or false, what's the rush of this gathering in the middle of the night, Mr. Secretary? Isn't that an intervention in freedom of information, freedom of the press? Minister, do you have a partnership with the company on the news? Your ministry -- this institution -- is being investigated on the grounds of suspicion. Do you have any attempts by an independent audit agency to examine the allegations? If the allegations are true, will you continue to serve as Minister of Environment and Urbanism? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0281par0600	Instead of Mr. Pine, Mr. Reserver...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0282par0601	Thank you. The Şişli Municipality service building has been shown as a place of worship in zoning plans prepared by the Ministry. Four residences are also built in the garden of the Şişli Industrial School of applied sciences. The residences to these schools are being built by the stone structure, and since the Şişli Municipality is now close to the monument, it has halted construction for this reason. We ask: Why is a municipal service building shown as a place of worship? Besides, is it because only poor students study there that you have to build a residence in the garden of that school? A kid can't buy a rice by himself, two kids eat it together. Are you enemies of the strange guru? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0283par0604	Mr. Tor...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0284par0605	Mr. Minister of National Education, according to the latest PISA results, we've come to the end of all the majors, and we've chased the British, the German, the Japanese. In the event of the open-room teaching staff, the procedures are completed and the substitute teacher is appointed. It has been seen that those who have not received any formal education have been assigned as substitute teachers, many unappointed teachers who have not graduated from health and vocational sciences or others who do not know the vocational courses of their teaching profession have not been selected, and this has also caused complaints. Are you going to connect the application to the PISA results? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0283par0607	Mr. Bay...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0285par0608	Thank you, Mr. President. Blood again, tears again, children without a father. No matter who the terror comes from, we're up against it. The ones who chose us for the solution and assigned us here are waiting for us to figure it out. We will never compromise our undivided land and the unbreakable moon-star flag. Like the joint statement of the parties in parliament just now, joint efforts to destroy terrorism should be done, and the lesson required by these terrorist organisations must be given the most severe answer. From now on, we must not only go after terror by saying, "I am sorry for our head, " but by mutual action and decisiveness. None of us have the right to call it fate. Let there be no more fire in the hearts of mothers, and let us hear no more of this bitter news. Come on, let's all figure this out. I pray to God for our martyrs, and for our wounded, and for the speedy healing.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0283par0610	Finally, Mr. Kerestecioğlu will speak to Mr. Yiğitalp instead of Demir.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0286par0611	Mr. President, on March 9, 2016 in Surici, it was said by Interior Minister Efkan Ala at the time that the conflict was over and the ban would be lifted. But, when we look at it, the ban has still been on since March, and even the unscathed structures there are being destroyed, and they are being poured out on the edge of Dicle University as a weekend. In it are personal items, ornaments, all of which are being poured out together as a waste, and there is a serious victimization of citizens. Again, I'd like to ask you what has been done and done in these last nine months about 514 historical structures listed by UNESCO on the list of cultural heritages in Sur. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0287par0614	Thank you. Now I'll make a promise to the ministers to answer the questions. You have ten minutes total, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Özhaseki is starting. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0288par0619	Mr. President, some of the questions that have come in concern me, but some of them are of interest to the Ministry of the Interior, so I'll try to answer with the side that interests me, although I don't know much about them. A question has been asked about the ongoing curfew. That's right, I'll admit it's a bit long, but I was in Nusaybin on Tuesday. There we traveled on the streets and on the streets, as we talked to the citizens, the chiefs, the dignitaries of civil society. The most commoner said to me, "Immediately remove this fence and enter our home." When we called the governor, the police forces, they said to me: "We did not search these houses. If we don't do a scan, we might get in trouble, so we don't open it. On average, we've pulled 300 bombs in the last month, and every time we walk into a house, we're dealing with bomb devices. So, friends, have patience. I was a little surprised there as a man in the position of a judge, listening to both sides and giving orders because I gave the citizens a little credit. The citizen's victim must enter his home, but security forces say: "We must search." And I promised the citizens that if they manage it for a little while longer -- without taking a month -- that they can enter their homes. The day we broke up and the next day, there were two explosions. The citizen sees his house in the fence, he sees it well, and when he goes in, one person dies in two explosions, five wounded, and one very heavy now. There are explosions in the houses, so they have bomb devices. I think the Home Office is extending the ban a little bit, but it's because it's being scanned one by one. But if the citizen comes and says, "My house that was destroyed was 500 feet [50 m]. Give me a 500-foot house, brother. Come, I give you my autograph. From the third month when he leaves his house, he begins to receive rent assistance, and he receives the damage to his belongings. So there's no problem at this point. But the citizen has to sign off on it. In fact, I'm on the side of the job there, and I'm on the side of not bleeding someone's nose, so I'm kind of struggling for it. Secondly, sir, we've been asked if there are any CED reports on the marble furnaces. The larger areas above 25 hectares, the marble furnaces, they have to come and get permission from the Ministry, and the younger ones have to get it from the county office. I mean, without permission, without a CED report, there's no way anyone can open a marble stove there. A third point is what our Kayseri MP Cetin Bey asked: I think two days ago a local newspaper was collected in Kayseri. Look, it's like this: there's a factory that produces stone wool, which has 3.3 shares of my father's stock. How do you make stone wool? You bring the bazalts from the mountain, you break them, you melt them, you split them into fibers, like cotton candy, and then you combine them together, you get insulation material. Do you think there's gonna be any waste out here? It's not a dead end, it's just a material we call burnt rot, which is what we get. Those journalists, especially because of the conflict between them in their business affairs, are officially blackmailing people they're at odds with, and they're asking for money. The newspaper's headline then appears as follows: The Minister of the Environment's factory poisons nature. If 1 gram of toxic waste is coming out of that factory, I'm handing over all my shares to Cetin Bey where he wants them, please, I'm handing over my shares.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0289par0624	We don't want a polluting stock.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0288par0625	It's completely organically producing a stone wool that doesn't contaminate the environment in any way. Enter the Internet at the point of stone wool, and even from where you sit, please see what stone wool is.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0289par0626	Mr. Secretary, if it's not yours, check it out anyway.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0290par0627	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0288par0628	Friends, no one has the right to slander a journalist or a journalist.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0289par0629	It's not slander!
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0288par0630	Sarcasm is the world's vilest business.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0291par0631	Thank you, Minister. Look, the Kayseri are taking their bread out of the stone, folks, thanks to the Kayseri. Given the other ministers, Mr. Secretary, time is running out.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0292par0634	If I, the Minister of Environment, have been given an ounce of toxic waste from the factory, which is my 3.3 shares, and it's buried in nature, as it says in that paper, I'm donating my share to where you want it, friends, to you, so clearly. Another point, my friends...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0293par0636	Mr. President, one moment, and leave word to the other ministers.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0294par0637	Minister, tell the martyrs about the house.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0295par0638	Our Minister of National Education had given us the right to speak on the stand, Mr. Minister, and now the Minister is doing his due on the QA part.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0296par0639	At the point of giving homes to martyr families, friends, look, good practice.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0297par0640	Give me some time, give me more time. Friends, if you'll excuse me! We've got a nice app at the point of giving homes to the relatives of the martyr, our city of Tarsus, congratulations, thank you. But I want everyone to know that I started 15 years ago, gave home to all of our martyrs, probably over 300. You have to give, in fact, not even a drop of blood they shed is the price, I believe from the heart, so our martyrs need to be taken care of. Let's hope we can bring this up in the coming days, with the tears of those devoted babies left behind, poor people, whatever we can do for them. Sir, that's all the questions I've been given...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0298par0644	You'll answer the rest in writing, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0299par0645	Mr. President, extend the response time, because it's been three minutes of stock.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0298par0646	The rest will answer in writing, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0300par0647	To the question asked by Sir Najmettin Ahrazoğlu, the number of students who have applied for housing this year is 408,457 -- I've just said it in my speech, but I'll give you the exact number again -- 408,457. The number of students settled is 318,833, 78 per cent settlement as of today. So the capacity that we have now is 553 thousand. Again, the capacity for next summer's summer, the summer of 2017, is 650,000.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0301par0648	You just said 680,000, Mr. Secretary. You said 680,000 in your speech.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0300par0649	Sorry, it's over 650,000. So, Mr. Mehmet Erdogan just said that we received more demand this year than we've ever received. But-in the conversation, he can't hear me now -- I don't think this information is really true -- or I think it's probably too much for him.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0302par0650	Mr. Secretary, they're not coming to you, they're coming to us.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0300par0651	No, it's coming to us, and all of our deputies here are witnesses that there's been a very serious decline. But, of course, we'll continue our efforts to increase it further. I thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0303par0653	Thank you. I promise our Minister of National Education.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0304par0655	Mr. President, thank you. The question of one of our congressmen was about the teachers who canceled this license. As part of the crimes carried out in the Turkish Penal Code's section "Crimes Against the Constitutional Order" and Articles Against the Processing of this Order, the decision to operate against terrorist organization or national security has been made to cancel the work permit to work on personnel who have been decided to be engaged in the structure, formation or groups of groups, their immunity or their relationship or the closure of institutions which have been established by the state's prosecutors. These personnel have been asked to report to the Ministry what has been identified as a threat to national security, structures, formations or groups or terrorist organisations, accession, defection, or connection to the governorates -- as we have written to national educational directors -- in accordance with the general order of October 11, 2016. We'll settle these notifications next week with a commission decision issued by our Ministry. Its essence is that if it is not connected to any terrorist organization, then teachers whose license has been revoked will be granted a license. That's his first sentence.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0305par0657	Okay, in a week. We'll get an answer in a week.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0304par0658	Another: Will there be an appointment in February? We repeat exactly what we said earlier. When we repeat it, we say... this Sezai Karakoch has a beautiful poem, and I like it very much: we say we have two hands; we say if we had a thousand hands, they would be the same. / 999 let our hands burn like paper,/ let one hand be like the sun.../ Of course we're pouting, astonishing./ But, in the last chapter... I mean, we say exactly what we know, the right thing. What did we say before? Will a teacher be appointed in February? It is not for me to decide alone. Our Prime Minister, Finance Minister, State Staff President will come -- Turkey needs a teacher, needs a police officer, needs a judge, needs a doctor -- that's what we'll look at. It's obvious which ones have prior priorities...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0305par0659	No, Mr. Secretary, I'm not asking you to squeeze you, I'm really asking you to find out, it's two months away.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0304par0660	I'm being very clear. Now, if you have to... you'll tell those who follow you that the Minister of National Education didn't say there was going to be an appointment in February, you can say that.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0305par0661	I mean, no, thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0304par0662	I didn't say that, but if you want to, you can apply for that comment.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0305par0663	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0306par0664	Not yet.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0304par0665	There's another thing: he hasn't been suspended as a teacher on the grounds that he's a member of Turkish Education-SEN. The suspension has been implemented on those with contact, contact, or privacy. Believe me, there are people who are connected to this structure, and there are people who are connected to you, and there are people who are connected to Turkish Education-SEN, and I'll make that very clear. For example, I'd like to give you a union of expelled teachers: 3.362 from Education-BIRD-SEN, 1,726 from Turkish Education-SEN, 683 from Education You. So this structure is something that is within every union, so let me be very clear about that.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0307par0666	But, Mr. Secretary, you've taken 11 thousand years of education, you've returned them all to your post. Is everything all right in there? So there's a problem. Have you taken advantage of your people?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0304par0667	No, no, I don't. There's more going on. There's another thing: the faculty of education in the top ranking of pay-per-view teaching... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the faculty graduates are preferred, including the faculty and the faculty of literature. I do, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit03spe0308par0672	Thank you. So the question-answer process is complete. I'm taking a thirty-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0308par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of the 2017 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2015 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. Mr. Altay, according to 60, I give you my word for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0309par0008	Thank you, Mr. President. The budget's negotiations have five or six days left. Turkey does not tolerate a single day under the circumstances we are in. The need to create a national policy stands very clearly. In the fight against terrorism, we propose that the Republic People's Party Group create opportunity and time in parliament by shortening the budget's talks in order to give the government a chance to minimise terrorism, if there is one, to give it a chance to take measures and work from Parliament.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0308par0011	Here, complete it, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0309par0012	We think it is necessary for the government's work in parliament to meet its demands from parliament, and to form a national policy. As a group, we consider it a national mission to make this proposal to all political parties and governments in the House. I do, sir.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0308par0014	Thank you very much, Mr. Altay, for this lovely call. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0310par0017	Mr. President, thank you. We, as a group, support Mr. Altay's offer to continue his work around this focus in the intention of creating a national policy on terrorism. In fact, this issue, especially in the case of yesterday's tragic terrorist attack, and when the previous events are remembered, it would be appropriate to hold such a discussion in parliament, to make an assessment. In that regard, I would like to express our group's full support for this decision. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0311par0020	Thank you very much, Mr. Botanci. If we learn the approaches of other groups, I hope we can all share a common stance on a national issue at the point of counterterrorism. Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0312par0024	Mr. President, we've just had a reciprocal dialogue with the Minister of Environment and Urbanism in the Congress tradition. During this dialogue, I called him Mr. Secretary, and I didn't say a single word about him that would offend him; he could look at the transcripts; but when I look at the transcripts, I'm not sure you're the most shameless person I've ever noticed, brother. I'm not sure I'm right to address a minister of the Republic of Turkey in a way that doesn't suit him. And I'd like the Minister to take that back, because I'm telling a congressman that he shouldn't be sitting there if he's referring to the issue here, in the reciprocal dialogue, in the traditional dialogue, in this non-verbal conversation. I invite him to take that back in a proper manner.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0311par0025	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0313par0028	Sir, my reaction to the precious MP there was that when our friends took the promise, we listened quietly, without saying anything to anyone, they said the wrong things, we listened, they said the wrong things, we listened, but during my conversation, he kept on talking for, like, five minutes straight, probably. Enough is enough, don't speak, shut up, brother! I warned him many times, but he went on. If he says that his attitude is wrong and he apologizes, I take it back, he finds his attitude right, and if he keeps doing it, I never take it back.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0311par0029	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Sometimes in this kind of polemics, there are dialogues that go beyond the mean. So let's face it, let's face it. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0314par0032	Mr. President, may I have a quick word, please?
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0311par0033	Mr. Akar, please... there's an important matter, so let's figure it out, Mr. Akchay has made a promise.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0314par0034	Okay, after that.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0311par0035	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0315par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. As we all know, we experience a very painful event in our hearts. Our entire nation has been grieving and bitter, and since morning we have published our joint declaration of this hand in Istanbul yesterday, and our views as political party groups.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0311par0040	Let's turn on the mike, guys. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0315par0042	As our friends, the speaker group's deputy chief, have just stated, considering this atmosphere we live in, we believe it would be helpful for the government to immediately conclude this budget talks, inform both the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and express our support and opinions about these terrorist events, and in this regard as the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the national policies that will be implemented by the Republic of Turkey and its government. Other than that, the government's suggestion that if there's anything else in the case of counterterrorism... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0311par0045	Complete. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0315par0047	... of which, of course, we think it would be helpful for us to discuss these issues and settle them. That's what I'm saying as the National Party of Action. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0311par0049	Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0316par0050	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0311par0051	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0316par0052	Mr. President expects me to apologize, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0311par0053	No, it's mutually... If you tell me what you're doing is not true, I'll make it clear that what I'm saying isn't true.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0316par0054	Now, I'll tell you what I said, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0311par0055	Please, let's finish.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0316par0056	Yes, we will, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0311par0057	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0316par0059	Take the transcripts and examine them, and I haven't used the slightest negative sentence against you, and the work I'm doing is what all my friends, all the friends in this Parliament, do. From time to time, ministers talk, other friends talk, there are such dialogues with respect. I haven't broken my style or anything, but if you're expecting me to apologize for that, I'd like to return that word you used. I mean, you're a thousand times the size of the word. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0311par0061	Mr. Akar, please...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0317par0062	I swear to God, you're telling me what I know so well, saying that I don't know, that I'm ignorant or something.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0316par0063	I didn't say anything about ignorance.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0317par0064	You've been talking all the time from there, it's a shame.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0316par0065	I didn't say a word negative. 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Ministry of National Education for Central Management in 2015 1) The Board of Higher Education 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2017 is the chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) The Head of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2015 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account 2015 1) Sports General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Higher Education Loans and Homes Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Higher Education Credit and Homes Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2015 Central Management Final Account EPISODE AND KADISTRO GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2015
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0318par0097	Members of lawmakers, I will now make you read separately and vote on the parting of budgets in the sixth round, respectively. I submit to your votes that the National Ministry of Education shall take part in the central management budget in 2017: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 3.996.030.420 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3,600,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 212,587,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 80.836.366.580 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 85,048,584,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The National Ministry of Education was adopted in 2017 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the National Education Ministry of 2015 will take part in the final account of its central management account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of National Education for Central Management in 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 42,869,443,418,03 Budget Expenses 62,247,768,851,07 Subsidiary Expenses 19,607,289,223,43 Canceled Fund 216,529,900,18 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 12.433.890,21 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of National Education of 2015 was adopted into parts of the central administration's final account. I submit to your votes that the board of higher education shall be transferred to the central management budget in 2017: those who have not accepted... those who have not... have been accepted. 38.01) THE HIGH SCHOOL BUILDING 1) The Board of Higher Education 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 32.913,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 16.546,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 49,459.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 36,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 49,328,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 95,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 49,459.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The institute of higher education was adopted in 2017 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the board of higher education shall take part in the central management account of 2015: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) The Board of Higher Education 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 158,593,658,38 Budget Expenses 146,332,907,98 Cancelled Fund 12,260,750,40 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 40.428,000.00 Collection 125,335.100,79 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Board of Higher Education has been adopted into parts of the fixed account of central management in 2015. I submit to your votes that the chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement shall be taken into the sections of the central management budget in 2017: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 40.01) DEATH, CHOICE AND CENTER OF RESPONSIBILITY 1) The Central Management Budget for 2017 is the chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 01 General Public Service 23.296.800 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3,200,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 382.039.200 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 408.536,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Attempts and Property Profits 399.036,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 9.500,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 408.536,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. I submit to your votes that the chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account of 2015: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) The Head of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 419,997,144,40 Budget Expenses 372.435.173.31 Canceled Fund 47,561,971,09 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget revenue estimate 320,704,000.00 Collection 388.834.089.34 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement is adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2015. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Youth and Sports will take part in the central management budget in 2017: Those who don't... Sustained. 29) TEENAGE AND SPOR ACTIVITY 1) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 11.473,179,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.150,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 151,933,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 11.627.263,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Youth and Sports was adopted in 2017 as part of the central management budget. The Ministry of Youth and Sports of 2015, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 7.556.475,000.00 Budget Expenses 7.518.909.276.07 Canceled allowance 37,565,723,93 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Youth and Sports of 2015 has been adopted into parts of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Sports General Directorate shall be transferred to the central management budget in 2017: those who have not accepted... those who have not... have been accepted. 40.14) SPOR GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1) Sports General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 44.203.200 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 28,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,004,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 3.528,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,190,068,800 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 1,238.832,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 4,190,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 1,178,832,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 55,810.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 1,238.832,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget of 2017 have been adopted. Sports General Directorate 2015, I submit to your votes for the division of the central management account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Sports General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance is 1,835,933,136.00 Budget Expenses 1,825,052.914,21 Canceled Fund 10.880.221.79 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget revenue estimated 1.020.334,000.00 Collection 1,927,240,471,97 Ret and Returns 311,253,74 Net Collection 1,926,929,218,23 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Sports General Directorate of 2015 is considered part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Office General of Higher Education Loans and Homes shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management budget in 2017: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 40.13) THE KING OF MY HIGH SCHOOL AND THE PRODUCTION OF THE YURTURES 1) The General Directorate of Higher Education Credit and Housing Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 133,715,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 673.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 108,770,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 11.093,273,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Gen. TOPLAM 11.336.431,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 419,501.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Influences 10,266,431.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 178,600,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Collection 471,899.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 11.336.431,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Department of Higher Education Loans and Homes has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2017. I'd like to submit to your votes that the department of the Office General of Higher Education Loans and Homes shall take part in the central management account of 2015: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Office of the Office of the Higher Education Loan and Homes 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 8.383.315.554.00 Budget Expenses 8.148.639.149.84 Canceled Fund 234,676,404,16 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget revenue estimate 7.052.675,000.00 Collection 7.813.014.143.87 Ret and Returns 17.830.706,76 Net Collection 7,795,183,437,11 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Department of Higher Education Loans and Homes Office has been adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2015. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism shall take part in the central management budget in 2017: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 27) EARLIER AND GOVERNMENT 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 62.388,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 344,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.785,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 763.576,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Environmental Protection Services 360.296,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 631.990.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 535,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 1,823,914,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism adopted parts of the central management budget in 2017. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2015 will be transferred to its final accounts: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2015 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 2,472.004.942.78 Budget Expenses 2,126.892.215,82 Canceled Fund 114,034,577,41 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 231,078,149,55 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has been adopted into parts of the central management account in 2015. I submit to your votes that the tapu and the Kadastro General Directorate will take part in the central management budget in 2017: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 27.75) CAPU AND KADASTRO GENIOR PRODUCTION 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 919,281.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 201,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 919.482,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Departures of the central management budget of 2017 have been adopted by Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate. I'd like to submit to your votes to the section of the central management account of 2015, the office of Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2015 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 980.904.864,41 Budget Expenses 932,588,724,61 Savings Expenses 119.125.69 Canceled Fund 8.682.243,57 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 39,753,021,92 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. Departures of the central management account of 2015 have been adopted by Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Now, I'm going to have the university's Central Management Budgets for 2017, and I'm going to read and vote separately on the transfer of the Central Management Account for 2015. I submit to your votes that the university's budget of 2017 will be transferred to its sections: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Now, I'm going to have you read the income sheets with the grant boards, but I'd like to make a brief statement first. As you know, today the budget of 108 universities and 105 universities will vote for the final account. These ballots take a lot of time, you know. Until now, budget figures are voted after reading the first level of functional codes and codes for grants, grants, and grants. Similarly, each section will be voted separately after the first level of income codes and statements are specified on the income sheets. Each grant and income code in terms of analytical budget classification is the same in all institutional budgets. So in order to avoid a repeat and use time more efficiently, I'm going to express once and for all what the code means in the beginning. Later, I will vote only after the budget numbers have been read by our Clerk Member at each university with funds and income codes. According to the functional classification, the explanation of first-level functional codes in the grant contents is this: I will first present the code numbers, and then I will give you the description of the code numbers that correspond to these code numbers. 03 Public Order and Security Services 04 Economic Affairs and Services 06 Human and Community Welfare Services 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 10 Social Security and Social Services The first level of income code on income sheets is as follows: 03 Equipment and Property Influences 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids Now, I'm going to have the university budgets for 2017 and the income boards read: We start at the University of Ankara, saying Bismillah. 38.02) ANKARA UNIVERSE a) Ankara University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 55.594,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 8.400,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 181,468,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 20.955,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 620.028,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 886.445,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 26.328,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 835,029,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 25,003,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Savings 85,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 886.445,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.03) ORTA EAST TECHNIC UNIVERSITY a) Middle East Technical University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 72,445,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 7.154,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 4,714,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 8.362,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 387.532,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 480.207,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 34,223,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 432,383,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 13.601,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 480.207,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.04) HACETTEPE UNIVERSITY a) Hacettepe University Central Management Budget 2017 01 General Public Service 79.192,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 16.786,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 168.090.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 11.119,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 590.11,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 865.298,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 23.283,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 813,194,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 28.821,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 865.298,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0319par0460	A very short word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0318par0461	Yeah, that's a very short word. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. One moment, please...
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0320par0466	I made a promise to give you a rest, Mr. President, and you're tired. Now, before us, three groups, especially in the last few days, we are not, in any principled way, against the problem that has been developing and upsetting us all, that has driven the country into a collective spiral of violence, and that has broken hearts, that has shot at houses. We accept the revelation of a common perspective with the common mind, but we expect the government to come to opposition parties, especially with a concrete proposal, to argue about it, to say what's in their pockets in Parliament, to say what's in their pockets, to say what's in front of them, to speak out, to catch a partnership through these words. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-12-11sit04spe0321par0469	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) The Ministry of National Education for Central Management in 2015 1) The Board of Higher Education 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2017 is the chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2) The Head of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement 2015 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Budget for 2017 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account 2015 1) Sports General Directorate 2017 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate 2015 Central Management Final Account 1) Higher Education Loans and Homes Institution 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Higher Education Credit and Homes Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2015 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2015 Central Management Final Account EPISODE AND KADISTRO GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget in 2017 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2015 Yeah, we're moving on to V.A. 38.05) GAZI UNIVERSE a) Gazi University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 71,661,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 14.950.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 155,468,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 12,203,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 553.168,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 807,450,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 15,780,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 758,471000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 33.19,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 807,450,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.06) ISTANBUL UNIVERSITY a) İstanbul University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 119.064,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 25.317,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 210,263,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 7.204,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 809,530.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 1,171,378,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 54,615,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Influences With Donations and Aids 1,054,345,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 62,418,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 1,171,378,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.07) ISTANBUL TECHNIC UNIVERSITY a) İstanbul Technical University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 61.256,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 13.016,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 6.147,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 362.764,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 443,183,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 31.518,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 402.956,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 8.709,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 443,183,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.08) THE UNIVERSE OF THE BOUGS a) Boğaziçi University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 64,777,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.048,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 13.090.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 172.105,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 255.020,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 21,851.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 229,193,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 3,976,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 255.020,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.09) MARMARA UNIVERSE a) Marmara University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 41,788,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 15.750,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 35.638,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 5.448,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 448,650,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 547.274,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 37,563,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 486,787,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 22.924,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 547.274,000 38.10) STAR TECHNIC UNIVERSITY a) Yıldız Technical University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 33.488,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 8.543.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 8.133,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 239,499.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 289,663,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 13.767,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 267.842,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 8.054,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 289,663,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.11) MINAR SINAN ARTS UNIVERSE A) Architect Sinan Fine Arts University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 19,087,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.445,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.725,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 111,444,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 138,701.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2,310.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes with Donations and Aids 133,938,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2,453,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 138,701.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.12) EGE UNIVERSE a) Ege University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 61,748,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.587,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 178.074,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 5.830.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 470.693,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 722,932,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 30.304,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 669,877,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 22.751000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 722,932,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.13) NINE SEPTEMBER UNIVERSITY A) 9 September University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 51,593,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6,768,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 101.235,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4,851,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 471.114,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 635,561.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 23.640.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Influences With Funds and Aids 582,709,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 29.212,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 635,561.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.14) TRACIA UNIVERSITY a) Thrace University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 26,001,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 7.255,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 43,603,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 6.435,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 206.117,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 289,411.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 15.753,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 260.426,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 13.232,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 289,411.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.15) UNIVERSE a) Uludağ University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 38.316,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 8.347,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 86,409,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.218,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 350,579000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 486,869.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 29.494,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 432,890.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 24,485,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 486,869,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.16) UNIVERSITY OF ANADOLU a) Anadolu University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 64,194,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.211.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.477,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 460.031,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 533,913.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 17.264,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 360,178,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 156,471000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 533.913,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.17) SELCUT UNIVERSE a) Selçuk University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 81,291.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 7.236,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 33.550.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.337,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 353,713.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 478.127,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 43,880.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 411,468,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 22.779000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 478.127,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.18) THE UNIVERSE OF THE Mediterranean a) Mediterranean University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 23.452,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 10.676,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 99.487,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.825,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 317.220,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 452.730.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 14.140.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 419,888,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 18,702,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 452.730.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.19) ERCIA UNIVERSITY a) Ercijas University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 30.426,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 7.627,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 75,487,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.544,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 322,383,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 438.467,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 16.146,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 407,898,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 14.423,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 438.467,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.20) REPUBLIC UNIVERSITY a) Cumhuriyet University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 31.946,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.504,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 65,671.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4.458,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 247,229000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 353,808,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 14.644,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 325,095,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 14.069,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 353.808,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.21) CHIKUROVA UNIVERSE a) Çukurova University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 73.402,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.859.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 95,606,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.764,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 323,680.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 499,311.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 19,119000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 458,178,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 22.012,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Profits 2,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 499,311.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.22) ONDOCUZ MAY UNIVERSE a) 19 May University Central Management Budget 2017 01 General Public Service 31.628,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 8.552,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 53,389.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,409,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 312.416,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 407.394,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Attempted and Property Profits 21.099,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 368.835,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 17.460.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 407.394,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.23) KARADENENiz TECHNIC UNIVERSITY a) Black Sea Technical University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 34,216,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 8.694,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 56,352,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.185,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 319,886,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 421,333.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 21.048,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 383.234,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 17051000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 421,333.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.24) ATATURK UNIVERSITY a) Ataturk University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 49,567,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.760.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 40,593,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.626,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 432,941000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 533.487,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 22.342,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 488,71,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 22.434,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 533.487,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.25) UNIVERSE OF MAN A) Inönü University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 46,041.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.636,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 66.277,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3,990,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 232.443,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 355.387,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 12,713.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 329,344,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 13.330,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 355.387,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.26) FIRAT UNIVERSE a) Fırat University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 49.125,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 10,940.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 39,645,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,747,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 243,780.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 345.237,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 14.757,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 318,586,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 11.894,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 345.237,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.27) DICLE UNIVERSE a) Dicle University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 43,651.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 8.992,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 59.522,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,827,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 241,751000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 355,743.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 11.242,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 332,781000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 11.720.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 355,743.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.28) THE UNIVERSE OF THE YUNDAY a) Centennial University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 34,734,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 8.774,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 29.278,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 11:453,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 236,770,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 321,029.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 6.903,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 303,699.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 10.427,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 321,029,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.29) GAZIANTEP UNIVERSITY a) Gaziantep University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 20,889,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.443,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 36,370.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.086,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 233,452,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 299.240,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 16.326,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 269.504,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 13.410.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 299.240,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.30) a) İzmir Institute of Higher Technology 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 16,190,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,602,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,603,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 82,002,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 101.397,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 1,092,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 98.735,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,750,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 101.397,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.31) GEBZE TECHNIC UNIVERSITY a) Gebze Technical University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 11.425,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.922,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,910,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 95,401.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 111,658,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Attempts and Property Profits 972,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 109,451000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,235,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 111,658,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.32) HARRAN UNIVERSE a) Harran University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 23.377,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.803,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 21.232,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,467,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 151.996,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 201,875,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 5.157,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 190.547,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 6,171,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 201.875,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.33) SULAYMAN UNIVERSE A) Süleyman Demirel University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 27.257,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.600,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 36,794,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.232,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 328.508,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 401,391.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 17.164,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 370,604,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 13.623000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 401.391.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.34) ADNAN MANDERES UNIVERSITY A) Adnan Menderes University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 21,003,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.946,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 36,596,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3,191,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 218,081,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 282.817,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 12.070.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 260,974,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 9.773,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 282.817,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.35) THE UNIVERSE OF BULENT EGEVITY a) Bulent Ecevit University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 17.573.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.935,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 24.933,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,690.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 170,825,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 221.946,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 10,964,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 199,449.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 11.533000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 221.946,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.36) MERSIN UNIVERSE a) Mersin University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 23.595,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.542,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 39,600,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,642,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 239,699000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 311,078,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 11.360,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 288.125,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 11.590.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Earnings 3000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 311,078,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.37) PAMUKKALE UNIVERSITY A) Pamukkale University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 26.992,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 37,216,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,608,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 259.569.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 318.385,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 15,453,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 291,399.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 11.533000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 318.385,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.38) UNIVERSE A) Balıkesir University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 13.375,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.602,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 6.652,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,247,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 155,788,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 182.664,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 14.388,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 164.028,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 4.248,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 182.664,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.39) COCALE UNIVERSITY A) Alexei University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 32.321.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 10.661,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 51,870.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.152,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 270.752,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 367.756,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 26.624,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 326.092,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 15,040.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 367.756,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.40) SAKARY UNIVERSITY a) Sakarya University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 27.993,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.685,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.086,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 279,240,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 316,004,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 37,931.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 267.094,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 10,99,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 316,004,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.41) MANISA CELAL BAYER UNIVERSE a) Manisa Celal Bayar University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 20,451.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.842,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 30.146,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,748,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 222.214,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 280.401.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 15.370,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 252,466,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 12.565,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 280.401.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.42) ABANT UNIVERSE A) Abant Izzet Baysal University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 14.977,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.242,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 10.11,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,857,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 171,141.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 203.328,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 10,843,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 185,933000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 6.552,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 203.328,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.43) MUSTAFA CEMAL UNIVERSE a) Mustafa Kemal University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 15.547,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.078,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 37,624,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,011,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 128,982,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 208.242,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 9.064,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 194.194,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 4,984,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 208.242,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.44) AFYON KOCATEPE UNIVERSITY A) Afyon Kocatepe University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 29.155,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.384,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 54,650,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,668,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 175,389.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 267.246,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 12.392,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 244.527,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 10.327,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 267.246,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.45) KAFKAS UNIVERSITY a) Kafkas University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 11.580.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.823,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 14.222,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 949.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 134.215,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 164.789,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 5.555,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 154.662,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 4.572,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 164.789,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.46) CHUNKKALE ONSELVES MART UNIVERSITY a) Çanakkale Eighteen Mart University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 56.238,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 9.461,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 29.247,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.538,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 179.872,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 277.356,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 12.557,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 257,095,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 7,704,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 277.356,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.47) VICTIM UNIVERSE a) Ömer Halisdemir University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 12.362,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.269.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,836,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 127,275,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 145,742,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 5.907,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 135,964,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 3,871,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 145,742,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.48) DUMLUPINAR UNIVERSITY a) Dumlupınar University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 24,282.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 9.221.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 5.674,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4.538,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 173,577,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 217.292,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 20,796,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 189,981000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 6.515,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 217.292,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.49) Gaziosmanpasha UNIVERSITY a) Gaziosmanpaşa University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 17.899.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6,280.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 35.284,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.692,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 169,580.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 231.735,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 7.395,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 216,814,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 7.526,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 231.735,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.50) STUDIES STUDENT UNIVERSITY A) Muğla Sıtkı Koçman University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 22.525,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.366,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 1,176,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.133,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 207,640.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 237,840.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 12.022,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 219,519000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 6,299.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 237.840.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.51) KAHRAMANMARM SURVIVE UNIVERSE A) Kahramanmarash Milker İmam University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 18.555,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.289,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 28.405,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,803,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 181.890.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 234.942,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 10.242,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 219,754,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 4,946,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 234.942,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.52) }KIRIKKALE UNIVERSITY A) Kırıkkale University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 19.272,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.956,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 9.033,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.907,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 180,851000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 218,019.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 8.423,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 202,610.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 6,986,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 218,019000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.53) EXECUTE OSMANGAZI UNIVERSITY A) Eskişehir Osmangazi University 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 26.168,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6,200,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 70.997,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,911,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 219.255,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 324,541.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 16.425,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 296,187,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 11.929000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 324.541.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.54) GALATASARAY UNIVERSITY a) Galatasaray University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 10.479.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.473,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,487,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 70,633,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 86.072,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 8.117,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Funds and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,985,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 86.072,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.55) THE UNIVERSE OF THE EVIL a) Ahi Evran University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 14.990.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.452,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 7.500,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4,773,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 103,660.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 134,375,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 4,483,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 126,641.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 3,251.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 134.375,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.56) UNIVERSITY OF KASTAMON a) Kastamon University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 22.847,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.750,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.916,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 101.245,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 130.758,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.235,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 124.762,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2,761,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 130.758,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.57) UNIVERSE A) Düzce University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 11.862,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.669,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 35.792,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,036,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 132,580.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 184.939.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2,930.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 179.097,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2,912,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 184.939.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.58) MEHMET AKIF ERSOY UNIVERSITY a) Mehmet Akif Ersoy University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 10,583.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.461,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.537,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 118,019000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 136,600,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.637,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 129,274,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 3,689,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 136,600,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.59) THE UNIVERSE a) Uğur University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 13.779.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.787,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 2.033,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,652,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 99.642,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 120.893,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 6,221.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 111,918,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2.754,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 120.893,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.60) RECEP TERRORAL UNIVERSE a) Recep Tayyip Erdogan University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 10.266,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.220,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 14.267,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.556,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 169,963,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 200.572,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 4,483,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 190.190,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 5,899.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 200.572,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.61) NAMI KEMAL UNIVERSE A) Namik Kemal University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 13.228,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.328,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 12.992,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,448,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 137.997,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 169.993,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 7.014,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 158,894,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 4.085,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 169.993,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.62) ERZINCAN UNIVERSITY a) Erzincan University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 17.157,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.597,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,037,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 118,723000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 139,514,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 5,065,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 131,294,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 3.155,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 139,514,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.63) AKSARAY UNIVERSITY a) Aksaray University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 8.306,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,589.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,599.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 108,904,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 121,398,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 4,281.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 115,740.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,377,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 121.398,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.64) THE UNIVERSE OF ENTERMENT a) Giresun University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 14.411.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4,379.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 7.278,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,223,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 120,728,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 148,019.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 4.795,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 137.686,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 5,538,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 148,019000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.65) HETIT UNIVERSITY a) Hitit University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 11.888,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.450,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3,826,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 109,553,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 127,717,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2.752,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 122.637,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2.328,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 127,717,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.66) BOZOK UNIVERSE a) Bozok University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 21.841.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.058,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 41,938,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,201,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 97,610.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 165,648,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.751.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 159,478,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2,419000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 165,648,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.67) THE UNIVERSE OF ADIYAMAN a) Adıyaman University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 15.507,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4,100,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 9.067,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.139,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 109,472,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 141,285,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 4.042,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 134,851000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2,391,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Profits 1,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 141.285,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.68) ORDU UNIVERSITY a) Army University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 12.621.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.405,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 894,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,176,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 100,639.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 118,735,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.890.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 111,977,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2,868,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 118.735,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.69) AMASIA UNIVERSITY a) Amasya University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 12.889,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.422,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 532,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 72,501.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 89.344,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.050.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 84,719000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1.575,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 89.344,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.70) CENTURY UNIVERSE A) Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 9.822,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.273,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,248,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 73,702,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 87.045,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.265,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 82,698,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,082,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 87.045,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.71) ALONG IBRAHAM UNIVERSE A) Ağrı İbrahim Chechen University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 7.314,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.954,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,350,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 73.622,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 85,220,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2,009,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 81,739.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,672,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 85.420.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.72) SINOP UNIVERSE a) Sinop University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 10.977,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.256,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.489.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 66,081,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 82,803,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,770,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 80.014,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,119000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 82,803,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.73) CIRT UNIVERSE a) Siirt University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 10.399.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.374,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,259,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 75,593,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 89.625,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,423,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 87,123,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,079,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 89.625,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.74) NUCHIHIHELVES VICTIM UNIVERSE A) Nevşehir Hacı Bektaş Veli University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 17.521.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.027,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3,441,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 76,399.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 99.388,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.005,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 94,416,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,967,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 99.388,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.75) CONTROL UNIVERSE a) Karabük University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 12.33,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.606,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.314,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 157,239.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 177.492,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 6.576,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 165,953,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 4,963,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 177.492,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.76) CHURCH UNIVERSITY OF DECEMBER 7 A) Kilis 7 December University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 8.5199,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,400,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,263,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 59,851.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 72,033,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2,183,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 68,181000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,668,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Profits 1,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 72,033,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.77) THE UNIVERSE OF CHUNKIRI KATEKIN a) Çanırı Karateken University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 13.602,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.458,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.077,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 91,805,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 110.942,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 3,470.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 106,078,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,394,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 110.942,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.78) ARVIN UNIVERSITY OF CORUH a) Artvin Çoruh University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 8.3390.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.555,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,133,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 72,209,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 84.287,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1.660,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 81,170,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,457,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 84.287,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.79) THE UNIVERSE OF BILECTIC HEITH A) Bilecik Sheikh Edebali University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 8.409,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.550,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 71,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 84,946,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 97.076,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.357,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 91.730.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,989,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 97.076,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.80) BITIS EREN UNIVERSE a) Bitlis Eren University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 10.809,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.602,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 767,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 69,488,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 84.666,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,020,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 82,589.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,057,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 84.666,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.81) THE UNIVERSE OF RIVERSALS a) Kırklareli University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 9.374,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3,004,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,643,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 90,931.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 104,952,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 5,420,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 97,320,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 2,212,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 104,952,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.82) OSMANIA SCARED ATA UNIVERSITY A) Osmaniye Korkuş Ata University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 13.645,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.368,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,599.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 63.027,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 80,639.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 2.835,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 76,797,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,007,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 80.639.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.83) BINGO UNIVERSITY a) Bingöl University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 12.123,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.989,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,267,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 90,989,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 107,368,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 1.745,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 104,658,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 965,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 107,368,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.84) MUDI ALPARSLAN UNIVERSITY A) Mus Alparslan University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 8.637,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.355,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 854,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 76,353,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 89.19,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 798,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 86,690.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,711,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 89.19,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.85) MARDIN UNIVERSE UNIVERSE a) Mardin Artuklu University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 11.429000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.492,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,124,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 78,512,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 94.557,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 646,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 92,725,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,186,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 94.557,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.86) BATMAN UNIVERSITY a) Batman University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 15,650,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.368,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,162,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 71,176,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 91,356,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,961.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 88,902,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 493,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 91,356,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.87) ARDAHAN UNIVERSE a) Ardahan University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 7.945,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,300,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 859.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 63,587,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 74,691.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 1.247,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 72,695,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 749.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 74.691,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.88) THE UNIVERSE OF BARTIN a) Bartın University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 10.739.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.298,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3,351,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 73.732,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 90.120,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 2.389.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 86.462,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,269.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 90.120,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.89) MRBURT UNIVERSITY a) Bayburt University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 10.334,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,620.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 751,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 68.105,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 81,810.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2,220,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 78,638,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 882,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 81,810.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.90) STRIKE UNIVERSITY a) Güverhane University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 10.586,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.141,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,467,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 85,058,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 101.252,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 4.228,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 95.352,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,672,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 101.252,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.91) THE RIGHTS UNIVERSE a) Hakkari University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 11.763,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.078,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 888,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 39,794,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 54,523.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 405,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 53,558,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 550,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 54,523.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.92) STRIKE UNIVERSE a) Iğdır University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 8.194,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.371,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 816,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 58,578,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 69,959.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,116,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 68.110,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 733.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 69,959.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.93) SIRNAK UNIVERSE a) Şırnak University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 10,854,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,912,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 550,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 53,878,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 67.184,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 270,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 66,293,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 621.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 67.184,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.94) MUNZUR UNIVERSE a) Munzur University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 10.839.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,650,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 954,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 68,754,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 83.197,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 1,817,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 80.312,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,068,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 83.197,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.95) YALOVA UNIVERSE a) Yalova University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 10.215,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,451.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.566,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 73,443,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 86,675,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,300,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 83,778,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1.597,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 86,675,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.96) Turkish German University a) Turkish German University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 7.728,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,043,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 721.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 40.196,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 49,688,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 12,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 49,621.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 55,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 49,688,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.97) ANKARA STAR BEYAZIT UNIVERSITY a) Ankara Yıldırım Çakıt University 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 24.156.562 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.388,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 48,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,363,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 121,128,438 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 150.084,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 1.065,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Influences With Funds and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 704,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 150.084,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.98) BURSA TECHNIC UNIVERSITY a) Bursa Technical University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 8.142,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,870.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,854,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 41.535,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 53,401.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 20,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 53,216,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 165,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 53,401.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.99) ISTANBUL UNIVERSE a) İstanbul Civiliyet University 2017 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 10.490.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.683,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,103,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 72,033,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 87.309,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 162,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 86,933,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 224,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 87.309,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.01) UNIVERSITY OF EMPLOYMENT a) İzmir Kıtip Çelebi University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 13.685,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.141,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Worth Services 10.205,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,619,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 111.164,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 138,814,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 504,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 136,841.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,469.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 138.814,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.02) THE UNIVERSE OF NECMETIN a) Necmettin Erbakan University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 15.838,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.515,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 114.460.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,328,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 188,004,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 322.145,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 7.039,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 307.927,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 7.179,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 322.145,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.03) U.S.A. GÜL UNIVERSITY a) Abdullah Gül University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 10.096,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,348,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,89,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 69.122,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 82.385,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 5,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 82,304,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 76,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 82.385,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.04) ERZURUUM TECHNIC UNIVERSITY a) Erzurum Technical University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 8.477,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,373,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 350,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 54,933,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 65.143,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 80,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 64,934,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 129,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 65.143,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.05) THE UNIVERSE OF ADANA AND TEKNOLOJI a) Adana University of Science and Technology Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 11.476,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,702,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,220,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 56,248,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 70.656,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 23,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 70,521.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 112,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 70.656,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.06) ANKARA SOCIAL UNIVERSE a) Ankara Social Sciences University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 4.593,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.769.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 21.691,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 36,020,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 65,073,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 65,050.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 23,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 65,073,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.07) THE UNIVERSITY OF INTERVIEWS A) Health Sciences University Central Management Budget for 2017 01 General Public Service 24.196,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.271,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.963,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 77.392,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 110.822,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 83.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Funds and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 10,031000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 110.822,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.08) BANDIRM ON SEPTEMBER UNIVERSITY a) Bandirma Seventeen Eylül University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 3.911,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.117,000 I congratulate all lawmakers on the ruling-Muslim Balıkesir Bandırma, who vote standing for Bandirma with the support of all MPs. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 81,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 45,723,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 52.622,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,383,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 50.149,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,090,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 52.622,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.09) THE UNIVERSE OF SOLDIER a) Alexanderun Technical University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 3.196,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,700,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 601,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 61,573.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 68.070.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 3.551.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Influences 62,940.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1,579.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 68.070.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.10) ALANYA ALAADDIN KEYKUBAT UNIVERSITY a) Alanya Aladdin Keykubat University Central Management Budget in 2017 01 General Public Service 1,478,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,900,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 1,318,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 576,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 41.344,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 47.616,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 809,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 45,881000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 926,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 47.616,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Yeah, well, we've built a lot of colleges, God bless you. For the time being, we have accepted parts of universities' budgets for 2017. I submit to your votes that the final accounts of the universities in 2015 will be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm reading the general sums of the exponents (B) with the expense ruler: 38.02) ANKARA UNIVERSE B) Ankara University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total Payment 729.591.189.01 Budget Expenses 697,523,043,58 Canceled Fund 32,004.961.59 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 2,237,225,60 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimated 619,003,000,00 Collection 656.037.509.04 Rejections 465.206.84 Net Collection 655-572.302.20 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.03) ORTA EAST TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) Middle East Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 428,460,772,38 Budget Expenses 409.052.223.77 Canceled grant 19,305,746,88 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 102,801,73 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 363,950.000.00 Collection 377.115.198.07 Ret and Returns 1,394,872,47 Net Collection 375,720,325,60 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.04) HACETTEPE UNIVERSITY B) Hacettepe University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 746,855,768,76 Budget Expenses 687,734,534,90 Canceled Fund 57,367,820,83 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 1.753,413.03 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 608.266,000.00 Collection 699,635,612,38 Ret and Returns 769.636.83 Net Collection 698,865,975,55 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.05) GAZI UNIVERSE B) Gazi University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 683.458.271.88 Budget Expenses 608.771.801.70 Canceled allowance 74,686,470,18 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 585.11,000.00 Collection 645.971.747.53 Ret and Returns 838.067.96 Net Collection 645.133.679.57 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.06) ISTANBUL UNIVERSITY B) İstanbul University Central Executive Account for 2015 Total allowance 1,003,588,525,10 Budget Expenses 923.075.003.23 Canceled Fund 80.398.005,72 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 115,516,15 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 848.186,000.00 Collection 908,857,635,31 Ret and Returns 135,446,29 Net Collection 908,722,189,02 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.07) ISTANBUL TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) İstanbul Technical University Central Executive Account for 2015 Total allowance 437.693.274.25 Budget Expenses 425.163.473.59 Canceled Fund 12.529.800.66 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 1.820.193.29 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 327.029.000.00 Collection 464,646,976,43 Ret and Returns 537.789.58 Net Collection 464.109.186.85 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.08) THE UNIVERSE OF THE BOUGS B) Bosporus University 2015 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 239,824,100,83 Budget Expenses 232.773.241.60 Canceled Fund 6,946,369,32 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 104,489,91 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 192,005,000.00 Collection 231,054,177,85 Ret and Returns 462,002.04 Net Collection 230.592.175,81 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.09) MARMARA UNIVERSE B) Marmara University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total Payment 518,071,718,82 Budget Expenses 438.008.035.18 Canceled Fund 80.043.683.64 Payment transferred to the following year: 20,000.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 397,813.00 Collection 473,428,969,12 Ret and Returns 881.537.75 Net Collection 472.547.431,37 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.10) STAR TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) Star Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 267,264,124,83 Budget Expenses 251.132.716.93 Canceled Fund 16,131,407,90 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 220.371.000.00 Collection 251,248,859,97 Rejections 439.548.19 Net Collection 250.809.311.78 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.11) MINAR SINAN ARTS UNIVERSE B) Architect Sinan University of Fine Arts 2015 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 123,258,024,63 Budget Expenses 101.526.992.80 Canceled Fund 21.715.439.90 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 15.591.93 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 110,058,000.00 Collection 98,708,443,66 Ret and Returns 16.691.99 Net Collection 98.691.751.67 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.12) EGE UNIVERSE B) Ege University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total Payment 591,009,382,14 Budget Expenses 577,624,698,85 Canceled Fund 13.384.683.29 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 513,593,000,00 Collection 573,004.361,39 Rejections 1.524.965.48 Net Collection 571,479,395,91 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.13) NINE SEPTEMBER UNIVERSITY B) 9 September University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 572,138,445,27 Budget Expenses 502.064.511.27 Canceled Fund 70,072,986,26 Payment transferred to the following year 947,74 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 451,308,000,00 Collection 493.196.423.06 Ret and Returns 426.772.87 Net Collection 492,769,650,19 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.14) TRACIA UNIVERSITY B) Thrace University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 272.934.085.79 Budget Expenses 233,852,606,40 Canceled Grant 39,081,479,39 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 220,416,000,00 Collection 236.107.206.84 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.15) UNIVERSE B) Uludağ University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 402.202.742.11 Budget Expenses 368.160.080,45 Canceled Fund 34.016.241.62 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 26,420,04 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 336,899.00 Collection 368.147.466.06 Ret and Returns 777,360,01 Net Collection 367.370.106.05 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.16) UNIVERSITY OF ANADOLU B) Anadolu University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 556,351,020,03 Budget Expenses 514,934,224,59 Canceled Fund 41.205.513.48 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 211,281,96 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 409,740,000.00 Collection 483,182.092,75 Ret and Returns 320.060,88 Net Collection 482.862.031.87 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.17) SELCUT UNIVERSE B) Selçuk University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 454,594,455,52 Budget Expenses 419.530.401.39 Cancelled Fund 35,064.054,13 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 360.194,000.00 Collection 426.038.157.65 Ret and Returns 1,041,218,95 Net Collection 424,996,938,70 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.18) THE UNIVERSE OF THE Mediterranean B) Mediterranean University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 405,505,854.00 Budget Expenses 373.075.996.23 Canceled allowance 32,429,857,77 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 336,593,000,00 Collection 388.470.645.90 Ret and Returns 889.144,81 Net Collection 387.581.501.09 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.19) ERCIA UNIVERSITY B) Ercijas University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 393,764.541,02 Budget Expenses 375.888.212.24 Canceled Fund 17.874.231.54 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 2,097,24 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 315,674,000.00 Collection 358.740.814.23 Ret and Returns 332.067,89 Net Collection 358.408.746.34 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.20) REPUBLIC UNIVERSITY B) Cumhuriyet University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 289,339,158,31 Budget Expenses 267.794.138.71 Canceled Fund 21.545.019,60 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 241,368,000.00 Collection 266,289,981,56 Refuge and Returns 6.530,13 Net Collection 266,283,451,43 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.21) CHIKUROVA UNIVERSE B) Çukurova University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total Payment 468.180.258.86 Budget Expenses 421,718,585,76 Canceled Grant 38,896,577,52 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 7.565.095.58 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 367.023,000.00 Collection 405.170.880,19 Ret and Returns 13.802.03 Net Collection 405,157,078,16 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.22) ONDOCUZ MAY UNIVERSE B) 19 May University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 365.697.534.55 Budget Expenses 346.163.616.89 Canceled allowance 19,533,835,17 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 82.49 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 299,930.000.00 Collection 340.894.202.22 Ret and Returns 3.267.49 Net Collection 340.890.934.73 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.23) KARADENENiz TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) Black Sea Technical University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 363,631,119,22 Budget Expenses 330.946.245.88 Canceled Fund 32,684,873,34 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated at 300,859.000.00 Collection 335,355,470,18 Refuge and Returns 27.303,30 Net Collection 335,328,166,88 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.24) ATATURK UNIVERSITY B) Ataturk University Central Management Account for 2015 Total allowance 506.992.033,71 Budget Expenses 467.609.263.94 Canceled Fund 39,285,571,49 Payment transferred to the following year 97,198,28 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 411.208,000.00 Collection 488.485.691,31 Ret and Returns 833,443,79 Net Collection 487.652.247.52 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.25) UNIVERSE OF MAN B) Inönü University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 336,812,909,48 Budget Expenses 316,270.183,50 Canceled Fund 20,542,725,98 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 266.542,000.00 Collection 337.506.321.35 Ret and Returns 1,140.839.89 Net Collection 336.365.481.46 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.26) FIRAT UNIVERSE B) Firat University Central Management Account for 2015 Total allowance 339,979,705,41 Budget Expenses 319,298,243,81 Canceled Fund 20,681,461,60 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimated 264.063,000.00 Collection 317.359.908,19 Ret and returns 245.389.50 Net Collection 317.114.518.69 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.27) DICLE UNIVERSE B) Dicle University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total grant 322,871,823,21 Budget Expenses 322.809.188.69 Canceled Fund 10.062.634.52 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 270.608,000.00 Collection 323,429,036,70 Ret and Returns 283.018.06 Net Collection 323,146,018,64 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.28) THE UNIVERSE OF THE YUNDAY B) Centennial University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 305.124.198.00 Budget Expenses 284.80.97 Canceled Fund 20.319.217.03 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 251,291,000,00 Collection 278,880,266,39 Ret and Returns 157.303.80 Net Collection 278,722,962,59 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.29) GAZIANTEP UNIVERSITY B) Gaziantep University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 300.141.339.11 Budget Expenses 265,377,978,43 Cancelled Fund 34,763,360,68 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 220,418,000,00 Collection 261,925,878,17 Ret and Returns 795.747.94 Net Collection 261,130,130,23 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.30) B) İzmir Institute of Higher Technology 2015 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 91.618.344.58 Budget Expenses 80.029.110.77 Canceled allowance 11.589.233.81 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 205,766,12 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 79.262,000.00 Collection 75,983,614,52 Refuge and Returns 35.410.10. Net Collection 75.948.204.42 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.31) GEBZE TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) Gebze Technical University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 115,364,450.00 Budget Expenses 112,600,760.22 Canceled Fund 2,763,689,78 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 77.209.000.00 Collection 107,423,630,75 Ret and returns 46.208.93 Net Collection 107,377,421,82 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.32) HARRAN UNIVERSE B) Harran University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 233,182,170,74 Budget Expenses 210.390.334.23 Canceled Fund 22.791.836.51 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 191,768,000.00 Collection 217.545.836.07 Ret and Returns 187.125.19 Net Collection 217,358,710,88 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.33) SULAYMAN UNIVERSE B) Suleiman Demirel University Central Management Account for 2015 Total allowance 336.021.592.22 Budget Expenses 324,179,364.99 Canceled Fund 11.842.227.23 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 276,556,000.00 Collection 330.763.311.50 Ret and Returns 1.402.555.77 Net Collection 329,360,755,73 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.34) ADNAN MANDERES UNIVERSITY B) Adnan Menderes University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 245.050.222.80 Budget Expenses 226.902.807.93 Canceled Fund 18,147,414,87 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 195,975,000.00 Collection 226,700,903,36 Ret and Returns 1,055,742,38 Net Collection 225,645,160,98 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.35) THE UNIVERSE OF BULENT EGEVITY B) Blunt Ecevit University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total grant 214,740,258,56 Budget Expenses 188,160,654.99 Cancelled Grant 26,579,603,57 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 166,741.00 Collection 181,670,433,42 Refuge and Returns 230.598.01 Net Collection 181,439,835,41 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.36) MERSIN UNIVERSE B) Mersin University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total Payment 267.171.108.13 Budget Expenses 229.112.261.61 Canceled Grant 37,908,852.58 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 149,993,94 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 229,673,000,00 Collection 244.313.053,51 Ret and Returns 676.096.63 Net Collection 243.636.956.88 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.37) PAMUKKALE UNIVERSITY B) Pamukkale University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 269,710,849,18 Budget Expenses 250,247,340,24 Canceled Fund 19,463,508,94 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 233,538,000,00 Collection 256,874.479,36 Ret and Returns 197,087,69 Net Collection 256,677,391,67 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.38) UNIVERSE B) Balıkesir University Central Management Account for 2015 Total allowance 185,340,432,06 Budget Expenses 172.831.378.31 Canceled allowance 12.509,053,75 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 153,406,000.00 Collection 168,288,955,41 Ret and Returns 1,007,544,45 Net Collection 167,281,410,96 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.39) COCALE UNIVERSITY B) Alexei University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 397.802.646.40 Budget Expenses 307.130.245.83 Cancelled Grant 90,672,400,57 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 255,038,000,00 Collection 314,997,264,38 Ret and Returns 592.95,31 Net Collection 314.404.309.07 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.40) SAKARY UNIVERSITY B) Sakarya University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 280.915.121.28 Budget Expenses 276.028.108.50 Canceled Fund 4,869,246,74 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 17.766.04 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 237.448,000.00 Collection 264.215.166,71 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.41) CELAL BAYER UNIVERSITY B) Celal Bayar University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 250.518.248.47 Budget Expenses 236.351.380.51 Canceled Fund 14.166.139.92 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 728.04 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 209,244,000.00 Collection 228.535.804.33 Rejections 404.848,81 Net Collection 228.130.955.52 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.42) ABANT UNIVERSE B) Abant Izzet Baysal University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 181,562,795,96 Budget Expenses 175,717,485,72 Canceled allowance 5.845.310.24 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 334,830,44 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 151,459.00 Collection 170.203.277.75 Ret and Returns 168.791.58 Net Collection 170.034.486,17 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.43) MUSTAFA CEMAL UNIVERSE B) Mustafa Kemal University Central Management Account for 2015 Total grant 222.938.746.12 Budget Expenses 202.758.744.69 Canceled Fund 19,980,001,43 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 200,000,00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 184.556,000.00 Collection 190,883,087,49 Ret and Returns 1,195,489,14 Net Collection 189,687,598,35 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.44) AFYON KOCATEPE UNIVERSITY B) Afyon Kocatepe University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total grant 219,418,736,68 Budget Expenses 201,655,065,16 Canceled Fund 17.763.671.52 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 11.277.893.23 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 187,891000,00 Collection 207,760,238,23 Ret and Returns 778.866.22 Net Collection 206,981,372,01 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.45) KAFKAS UNIVERSITY B) Kafkas University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 181,919,865,66 Budget Expenses 168.194.990.13 Canceled allowance 13.724,875,53 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 139,655,000.00 Collection 171,089,794.07 Ret and Returns 490,67 Net Collection 171,089,303,40 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.46) CHUNKKALE ONSELVES MART UNIVERSITY B) Çanakkale University of March 18, 2015 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 264,047,663,32 Budget Expenses 241,795,322,19 Canceled Fund 22.252.341,13 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 220.034,000.00 Collection 238.664.895.42 Ret and Returns 186,410,76 Net Collection 238,478,484,66 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.47) UNIVERSITY IN NUCRY B) Niğde University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 139,137,110,59 Budget Expenses 121,775,191,49 Canceled Fund 17.361.919.10 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 110.509.000.00 Collection 110,268,586,21 Ret and Returns 231,762.99 Net Collection 110.036.823.22 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.48) DUMLUPINAR UNIVERSITY B) Dumlupınar University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total Payment 202.577.094,40 Budget Expenses 186,265,053,03 Canceled Fund 16,312,041,37 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 157,279.00 Collection 186,274,362.04 Rejections and Returns 33.640,10 Net Collection 186,240,721,94 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.49) Gaziosmanpasha UNIVERSITY B) Gaziosmanpaşa University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total Payment 206,222.137,71 Budget Expenses 197,372.041,45 Canceled Fund 8.850.096.26 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 175.609.000.00 Collection 196,529,076,03 Ret and Returns 200.017.60 Net Collection 196,329,058,43 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.50) STUDIES STUDENT UNIVERSITY B) Mugla Sıtkı Koçman University Central Management Account 2015 Total Payment 199,488,030,72 Budget Expenses 190,458,555,60 Canceled Fund 8,629,475,12 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 400,000.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 164.417,000.00 Collection 194.429.795.10 Rejections 154.443.25 Net Collection 194.275.351.85 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.51) KAHRAMANMARM SURVIVE UNIVERSE B) Heromarash Milker Imam University Central Management Account 2015 Total Payment 209.462.628.00 Budget Expenses 191.366.828.28 Canceled Fund 18,095,799,72 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 182.450,000.00 Collection 202.339.552,38 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.52) }KIRIKKALE UNIVERSITY B) Kırıkkale University Central Management Account for 2015 Total allowance 198,956,345,13 Budget Expenses 191.265.572.15 Cancelled Fund 7.690.772.98 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 156,458,000,00 Collection 192.859.162,42 Ret and returns 348.180.48 Net Collection 192.510.981.94 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.53) EXECUTE OSMANGAZI UNIVERSITY B) Eskişehir Osmangazi University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total Payment 279,268,333,67 Budget Expenses 269.844.291.96 Canceled Fund 9.424.041,71 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 238.331.00 Collection 273,974,508,34 Ret and Returns 115.149.37 Net Collection 273,859,358,97 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.54) GALATASARAY UNIVERSITY B) Galatasaray University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 65.193.961.33 Budget Expenses 55.817.235.82 Canceled Fund 9.376,725,51 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 60,958,000.00 Collection 49,148,047,05 Ret and Returns 206,253,56 Net Collection 48,941,793,49 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.55) THE UNIVERSE OF THE EVIL B) Ahi Evran University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 125,492.136,25 Budget Expenses 88.375.256.10 Canceled Grant 37,116,880,15 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimated 93.094,000.00 Collection 62,749.124.07 Ret and Returns 36,681,19 Net Collection 62,712,442,88 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.56) UNIVERSITY OF KASTAMON B) Kastamonon University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 117,137,671,53 Budget Expenses 104,783,721,97 Canceled Fund 12.339.159.73 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 14.789.83 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 92.571.000.00 Collection 106,737,113,31 Refuge and Restitution 7.541.11 Net Collection 106,729,572,20 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.57) UNIVERSE B) Düzce University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 155,786,162.80 Budget Expenses 145,060,278,35 Cancelled Fund 10,725,884,45 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 121,538,000,00 Collection 140,627,013,94 Ret and Returns 241,268,35 Net Collection 140.385.745.59 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.58) MEHMET AKIF ERSOY UNIVERSITY B) Mehmet Akif Ersoy University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 116,516,484,16 Budget Expenses 112.468.991.08 Canceled Fund 4,047,493,08 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 96,519.000,00 Collection 117,790,323,51 Ret and Returns 368.894.53 Net Collection 117,421,428,98 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.59) THE UNIVERSE B) Uğur University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 108,614,898,61 Budget Expenses 102,359,787,10 Canceled allowance 6.215.441.51 Transferred Payment 39,670.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 89,470.000.00 Collection 101,684.721,60 Ret and Returns 117.481.80 Net Collection 101.567.239.80 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.60) RECEP TERRORAL UNIVERSE B) Recep Tayyip Erdogan University Central Administration Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 176,299,373,60 Budget Expenses 139,260,630,61 Cancelled Fund 37.038.742.99 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 110,435,000.00 Collection 140,585,637,53 Ret and Returns 176,027,65 Net Collection 140.409.609.88 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.61) NAMI KEMAL UNIVERSE B) Namik Kemal University Central Management Account for 2015 Total grant 170,215,853,46 Budget Expenses 155,524,856,87 Canceled Fund 14.690.996.59 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 142.114,000.00 Collection 164.204.263,36 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.62) ERZINCAN UNIVERSITY B) Erzincan University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total Payment 122.247.754.66 Budget Expenses 116,639,422.95 Canceled Fund 5.595.406,71 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 12.925.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 98.301.00 Collection 112,774,077,63 Ret and returns 340.59.64 Net Collection 112.433.481.99 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.63) AKSARAY UNIVERSITY B) Aksaray University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 128,437,533,31 Budget Expenses 122.698.604.95 Canceled allowance 5.699.918.36 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 39.010.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 87,982,000,00 Collection 114.356.122.49 Ret and Returns 49.732.12 Net Collection 114.306.390.37 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.64) THE UNIVERSE OF ENTERMENT B) Giresun University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 138.502.644.21 Budget Expenses 128.914.139.20 Canceled Fund 9.588.505.01 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 102,854,000.00 Collection 121,151,670,01 Rets and returns 58.835.50 Net Collection 121,092,834,51 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.65) HETIT UNIVERSITY B) Hitit University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 122.052.759,81 Budget Expenses 113,863,060,98 Canceled Fund 8.189.698.83 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 94.532,000.00 Collection 112,759,458,68 Rejections 4.161.50 Net Collection 112,755,297,18 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.66) BOZOK UNIVERSE B) Bozok University Centre for 2015 Management Cut Account Total allowance is 133,189,544,39 Budget Expenses 123,651,453,56 Canceled Fund 9.538.090.83 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 107,350,000.00 Collection 126,522,482,81 Ret and Returns 163,004,55 Net Collection 126,359,478,26 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.67) THE UNIVERSE OF ADIYAMAN B) Adıyaman University Centre for 2015 Management Cut Account Total allowance 139,356,552,11 Budget Expenses 131,485,128,21 Canceled Fund 7,871,423,90 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 102,918,000,00 Collection 131,873,145,09 Ret and Returns 255,705,78 Net Collection 131,617,439,31 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.68) ORDU UNIVERSITY B) Military University Centre for 2015 Management Cut Account Total allowance 129.693.877.53 Budget Expenses 107,031,814,48 Canceled Fund 22.662.063.05 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 85,240,000.00 Collection 119.968.086.59 Ret and Returns 63.463.93 Net Collection 119.904.622.66 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.69) AMASIA UNIVERSITY B) Amasya University Centre for 2015 Management Cut Account Total allowance 89,654,162,48 Budget Expenses 84,995,653,94 Canceled Fund 4.652.897,57 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 5.610.97 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 70,972,000.00 Collection 82,337,670,36 Refuge and Returns 40.848.30 Net Collection 82,296,822,06 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.70) CENTURY UNIVERSE B) Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 95,581,030,58 Budget Expenses 78.321.958.69 Canceled Fund 17.259.071.89 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 65,363,000.00 Collection 70.554.740,72 Ret and refunds 14.563,30 Net Collection 70.540.177.42 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.71) ALONG IBRAHAM UNIVERSE B) Ağrı İbrahim Chechen University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 96.904.664.45 Budget Expenses 89,383,404,68 Canceled Fund 7,521,259,77 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 68,389.000,00 Collection 87.431.891.09 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.72) SINOP UNIVERSE B) Sinop University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 82,889,898,93 Budget Expenses 74,875,047,01 Canceled Fund 8,014.851,92 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 58,937,000.00 Collection 79,852,821,30 Ret and Returns 10.436.90 Net Collection 79.842.384,40 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.73) CIRT UNIVERSE B) Siirt University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 93,226,650,42 Budget Expenses 83.901.021.80 Canceled Fund 9.325.628.62 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 64,248,000.00 Collection 80,007,527,55 Ret and Returns 34,541,68 Net Collection 79,972,985,87 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.74) NUCHIHIHELVES VICTIM UNIVERSE B) Nevşehir Haci Bektas Veli University Central Management Account 2015 Total allowance 92,988,497,94 Budget Expenses 91,562.154,48 Canceled Fund 1,426,343,46 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 79.287,000.00 Collection 88,715,914,46 Ret and returns 96.496.49 Net Collection 88.619.417.97 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.75) CONTROL UNIVERSE B) Karabük University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 157,718,024.06 Budget Expenses 137.295.298.99 Canceled Fund 20.42,725,07 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 116,521.000,00 Collection 137.023.824.00 Rejections 515.077.15 Net Collection 136.508.746.85 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.76) CHURCH UNIVERSITY OF DECEMBER 7 B) Kilis University of December 7th 2015 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 70,056,762,67 Budget Expenses 63,497,227,70 Canceled allowance 6.559.534.97 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 56.575,000.00 Collection 64,639,156,45 Rejections 55,137,87 Net Collection 64,584.018,58 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.77) THE UNIVERSE OF CHUNKIRI KATEKIN B) Çankırı Karateken University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 105,521,727,75 Budget Expenses 93.837.801.52 Canceled Fund 11.681.438.64 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 2.487.59 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 76,625,000.00 Collection 93.985.755.09 Rejections 82.079.83 Net Collection 93.903.675.26 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.78) ARVIN UNIVERSITY OF CORUH B) Artvin Çoruh University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 74,765,856,32 Budget Expenses 65,655,402,74 Canceled Fund 9.110.453.58 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 62.955,000.00 Collection 70.520.675.35 Rejection and Return 89.758.33 Net Collection 70.430.917.02 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.79) THE UNIVERSE OF BILECTIC HEITH B) Bilecik Sheikh Edebali University Central Management Account for 2015 Total allowance 96,561,867,67 Budget Expenses 90.825.985.92 Canceled Fund 5,735,881,75 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 70,785,000.00 Collection 87,601,583,64 Ret and Returns 404.214.59 Net Collection 87.197.369.05 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.80) BITIS EREN UNIVERSE B) Bitlis Eren University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 96.330.483.69 Budget Expenses 90,536,250,67 Canceled Fund 5.794.233.02 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 64,284,000.00 Collection 82.242.064,40 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.81) THE UNIVERSE OF RIVERSALS B) Cırklareli University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 112,347,468,37 Budget Expenses 108,935,413,81 Canceled Fund 3,412,054,56 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 76,818,000,00 Collection 112,175,658,48 Refuge and Returns 24,183,75 Net Collection 112.151.474.73 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.82) OSMANIA SCARED ATA UNIVERSITY B) Osmaniye Korkuş Ata University 2015 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 73,769,456,34 Budget Expenses 69.279.301.03 Canceled Fund 4.490.155,31 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 63,631.000.00 Collection 67,166,610,42 Ret and Refunds 31.987,32 Net Collection 67.134.623.10 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.83) BINGO UNIVERSITY B) Bingöl University Central Management Account for 2015 Total allowance is 100,532,616,76 Budget Expenses 99.021.388.92 Canceled Fund 1,511,227,84 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 77,935,000.00 Collection 92,719,786,39 Rejects and Returns 56.484.28 Net Collection 92.663.302.11 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.84) MUDI ALPARSLAN UNIVERSITY B) Muş Alparslan University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 87,801,760,70 Budget Expenses 70.822.247.12 Canceled Fund 16,979,513,58 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 71,783,000,00 Collection 74,748.691,12 Ret and Returns 2,974.04 Net Collection 74,745,717,08 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.85) MARDIN UNIVERSE UNIVERSE B) Mardin Artuklu University Central Administration Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 98.969.245.36 Budget Expenses 86.489.419.06 Canceled allowance 12.479.826.30 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 71,772,000.00 Collection 83,357,061,65 Rejections 5.838,18 Net Collection 83,351,223,47 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.86) BATMAN UNIVERSITY B) Batman University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 109,079,791,86 Budget Expenses 84,455,197,38 Canceled Fund 24,624,594,48 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 70,093,000,00 Collection 85.168.571.85 Rets and returns 130.137.17 Net Collection 85.038.434.68 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.87) ARDAHAN UNIVERSE B) Ardahan University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 71,045,583,61 Budget Expenses 69.292.341.41 Canceled Fund 1,753,242,20 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 55.142,000.00 Collection 71,128,262,73 Ret and Returns 44.671.58 Net Collection 71,083,591,15 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.88) THE UNIVERSE OF BARTIN B) Bartın University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 88,397,861,35 Budget Expenses 76,701,578,18 Aborted allowance 11.696,283,17 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 67,675,000.00 Collection 88,535,650,67 Denied and Returned 12,178,73 Net Collection 88,523,471,94 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.89) MRBURT UNIVERSITY B) Bayburt University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total grant 81.920.628.07 Budget Expenses 79,565,748,43 Canceled Fund 2,354,879,64 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 56,702,000.00 Collection 79.208.957.57 Refuge and Restitution 2.805.95 Net Collection 79.206.151.62 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.90) STRIKE UNIVERSITY B) Silverhane University Central Management Account 2015 Total allowance 95.431.405.92 Budget Expenses 86.092.289.05 Canceled Fund 9.339.116.87 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 82.077,000.00 Collection 81,459,315,48 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.91) THE RIGHTS UNIVERSE B) Hakkari University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 59,458,518,15 Budget Expenses 40.634.349.03 Canceled Fund 18,824,169,12 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 40,621.000.00 Collection 45.518.518.99 Rejections and Refundations 2,622,50 Net Collection 45,515,896,49 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.92) STRIKE UNIVERSE B) Iğdır University Central Management Account for 2015 Total allowance 77,515,366,13 Budget Expenses 67,006,242.97 Canceled Fund 10.509.123.16 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 48.332,000.00 Collection 48.038.590.64 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.93) SIRNAK UNIVERSE B) Şırnak University Central Management Account for 2015 Total allowance 68,221,550,23 Budget Expenses 65,043,917,46 Canceled Grant 3.177.632.77 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 53,885,000.00 Collection 65,345,378,24 Refuge and Refunds 17.584,20 Net Collection 65.327.794.04 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.94) TUNCEL UNIVERSITY B) Tunceli University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 86,190,891,46 Budget Expenses 67,255,443,07 Canceled Fund 18,935,448,39 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 61.234,000.00 Collection 69,012,900,68 Ret and Returns 8.453,58 Net Collection 69.004.447.10 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.95) YALOVA UNIVERSE B) Yalova University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 110,648,179,48 Budget Expenses 98,783,117,45 Canceled allowance 11.865.062.03 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 69,003,000,00 Collection 97,730,816,54 Ret and returns 109,693,52 Net Collection 97.621.123.02 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.96) Turkish German University B) Turkey's German University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total grant 34,866,804,47 Budget Expenses 31,156,752.28 Cancelled Fund 3.710.052,19 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 25.859.000.00 Collection 29.540.843,78 Ret and Returns 374.648,82 Net Collection 29.166.194.96 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.97) YEDIRIM BEYAZIT UNIVERSITY B) Yıldırım Akıt University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total grant 170,417,265,56 Budget Expenses 154,056,252,93 Cancelled Fund 16.361.012.63 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 88,384,000.00 Collection 153,775,891,21 Rejections 315.79,40 Net Collection 153,460,091,81 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.98) BURSA TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) Bursa Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 76,313,028,94 Budget Expenses 71.552.171.11 Canceled allowance 4.760.857.83 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 35.622,000.00 Collection 75,964,690,85 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.99) ISTANBUL UNIVERSE B) İstanbul Civility University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 69,734,610,29 Budget Expenses 63,133,039,46 Canceled Fund 6,601,570,83 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 55,740,000.00 Collection 58,007,182,83 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.01) UNIVERSITY OF EMPLOYMENT B) İzmir Kıtip Çelebi University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total grant 120,997,600,16 Budget Expenses 115.375.373.93.93 Canceled Fund 5,622,226,23 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 79,874,000.00 Collection 105,295,274.02 Ret and Returns 2.673.99 Net Collection 105.292.600.03 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.02) THE UNIVERSE OF NECMETIN B) Necmettin Erbakan University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total Payment 259.980.148,73 Budget Expenses 242.274.940.11 Canceled allowance 7,705,208,62 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 194.216,000.00 Collection 238.164.063.75 Ret and Returns 322,820,56 Net Collection 237.841.243.19 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.03) U.S.A. GÜL UNIVERSITY B) Abdullah Gul University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 120.125.764.23 Budget Expenses 94,973,195,98 Canceled Fund 25.152.568.25 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 60,706,000.00 Collection 88.062.721,13 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.04) ERZURUUM TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) Erzurum Technical University Central Management Final Account 2015 Total allowance 77,985,497,21 Budget Expenses 60.844.795.48 Canceled Fund 17.140.701.73 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 46,211.000.00 Collection 56.201.568.29 Refuge and Returns 10.539.54 Net Collection 56,191,028,75 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.05) THE UNIVERSE OF ADANA AND TEKNOLOJI B) Adana University of Science and Technology 2015 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 87,324,245,13 Budget Expenses 63.442.503.82 Canceled Fund 23.881.741.31 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget revenue estimate 48.241.00 Collection 62,582.680,48 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.06) ANKARA SOCIAL UNIVERSE B) Ankara University of Social Sciences 2015 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 49.311.316.00 Budget Expenses 31.820.959.62 Canceled Fund 17.490.356.38 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Budget Profits estimated 26.326,000.00 Collection 26.642.419,36 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.07) THE UNIVERSITY OF INTERVIEWS B) Health Sciences University Central Management Final Account for 2015 Total allowance 7.064,000.00 Budget Expenses 588.930.11 Canceled Fund 6,475,069,89 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Collection 7.229.394,17 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Thus, the budgets and precise accounts of the companies involved in the sixth round were accepted. I wish them well. Congressmans, the sixth round of talks is complete. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Monday (December 12th 2016) to discuss the budget and precise accounts of the institutions, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00. I wish you good night. Blessed be the night, and blessed be your light again, and blessed be the good.
