tbmm-2016-11-23sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm gonna do an electronic check-up. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 25-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly. The opening roll call didn't have enough meetings. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Antalya MP Root, who asked for a comment on the problems and proposals for solutions that Antalya was facing in tourism. Here you go, Mr. Root. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0002par0015	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to start by saying thank you. Who do I thank? I want to discriminate against every person who reacts to yesterday's law, which is incompatible with human honor, whose conscience, his brain, his heart, but with women because women make up 50 percent of the society, and they are the ones who bring up, raise and men up the remaining 50 percent, and because of their courageous struggle, the law that is not in harmony with this human honor has returned. I especially thank our women, and I bow before them with respect. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear MPs, there are two very important sectors in our Antalya, one tourism, one agriculture. We Antalyas don't really like the politics of these two sectors, the two sectors where we earn our livelihoods, the two sectors where we earn our livelihoods, because there's no politics on bread. Look, tourism is over in the most beautiful geography in the world. Antalya is having the worst tourist season of the last 30 years. In Antalya, the capital of tourism, there are 410 five-star hotels, 120 of them for sale, 30 for bankruptcy, and unfortunately, there is a very bad atmosphere in Antalya tourism in 2017, the tour operators have agreed with other countries. I mean, we normally know the number of tourists coming in a year ago, but now we can't see. What I'm trying to say is that the Russian plane landed right on Antalya. We're having serious problems in tourism and agriculture. Sir, hotels are sold, but not just hotels... I want to show you this. Look, that's the movie line we've been watching smiling, the village of Haraptar. This may be a mazansen, but this is the village for sale in Urbana, and soon the signs like this will be in Antalya, this is Antalya, the village that the peasant is slowly leaving, is in serious trouble. Look, there was a rally two days ago as an Antalya wholesaler. The villagers are rioting there. It's not easy to make an Antalya peasant rebel. We're from Yörük. As the villagers in Antalya sent their son to the army, he hung the Turkish flag on the moldy iron above his house; while he was making the wedding, when the girl was taking it out, when the boy was marrying her, the Turkish flag was still hanging there. It's the peasants who have always been despised by the administration and never rebelled, even though they never got their rights. He was in such a state that the villagers faced their own police in Antalya. I attended that rally. They gave me an order at that rally, so go show Ankara and what we gave you from the council bench, and they said, "What do you think they saw?" And they gave me these. Look, this is the eggplant produced in Antalya. Look, there's the pepper, and there's the tomato. Why am I showing you all this? These are just vegetables for you, for us, but you know what? For them, it's the food, the sweat, the allowance sent to the boy in the army, the old mother's medicine money, her child's service money. Tomorrow, I'll save some money for the shroud. This is where he earns his livelihood, the peasant of Antalya. For him, we need to help the Antalya peasant as soon as possible. 50 cents, tomatoes in Antalya, 50 cents; it costs 80 cents. In Antalya, he is worth 80 cents, and if he rents someone else's greenhouse, it costs $1.20. My time is short, and I'd like to tell you a long, long story. But I'm trying to create awareness. In Antalya, tomatoes will not grow, and we all have to react. In this case, which is political, I address all political parties: if the peasant is finished, everyone is finished. We are the masters of the village nation. As representatives of the understanding that says, we are obliged to look after our villager, our manufacturer, with sweat, with honor, with money winners. I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0003par0026	Thank you, Mr. Root. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Ayhan, who asked for the right to illegal practices and representation. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0004par0031	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you first. As you know, on the night of November 4th, when our friends, who should be sitting here and seeing pictures of them, were arrested illegally, in a coup attempt, in prisons, prisons. These friends of ours have actually had millions of people who were prevented from fighting for freedom, democracy, and justice in prison. Thus, after June 7th, the process of abolition of the people's will peaked with a number of antidemocratic, illegitimate practices, and on November 4th, when our co-Chairs and deputies were practically held as political hostages. Currently, hundreds of co-mayors, city councilmen, and executives of our party have been sent to prison in the same manner. See, we always use the classical meaning of the blow when it's called the slush, but it's not in the classical sense of impact. The coup is the triumph of the will of the people in civil political ways, as it is in military methods. The difficult methods of a certain majority are the means to seize its will using force methods. So what's being done now is a process of slow motion, which has completely spread throughout time. Therefore, there is no guarantee that those who carry out this coup process, those who interfere with the will of the people, will not be victims of these methods tomorrow. You, by legitimizing evil, antidemocratic practices, legalizing and decorumizing illegalities, are actually clouding the future of Turkey in person of our co-Chairs, our deputies, our chosen ones. It's never, never fair, never democratic to take advantage of being power, of being capable, of such an unwarranted advantage. And we know very well in Turkey that there is a great concept erosion. Concepts are being emptied, twisting, offering offerings to society, trying to put society to sleep, and trying to deceive society. For the past 90 years, this tradition has been under AKP power today. I want to rephrase that all of this is of no use to society in any way. Look, we've always been in favor of democracy, freedom, peace and equality. And in this process of immunity, we've actually shown that attitude. We never run away from judgment, we've never been in the face of independent, objective trials, but we can't be expected to rely on that judgment in a situation where the judgment is so politicalized, so subjective, that intentions are read. Political power has repeatedly indicated that the AKP also does not trust the judiciary. I'm one of the victims of that political judgment. When I was in prison, I was elected deputy, and for five years, the will of the people was held captive in my person, and in January 2014, I was released from the Constitutional Court's right to represent, and two years later, our friends were still imprisoned for violating this right to representation, and they are now in prison. So we're dealing with practice that repeats itself over and over again, destroying the spirit of democracy. For him, dear friends, it is the duty and responsibility of my friends in this House to take a stand and a stand for justice, in favor of the public, in favor of the work against these existing antidemocratic practices. Of course these days will pass. We need to make it very clear that if these friends were taken today, like the boomerang, they would shoot the owners. There's no way anyone could run away from this. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0005par0041	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement is from Afyonkarahisar MP Hatice Dudu Özkal, who asked for the appointment of Teachers' Day on November 24th. Here you go, Mr. Ozkal.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0006par0046	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise regarding Teacher's Day on November 24th. I salute the Veteran Assembly. First of all, I ask God's mercy and thank you to all of our teachers who have been martyred in their service. As we look at the history of Teacher's Day, we see that UNESCO's recommended decision has been celebrated as Teacher's Day in many countries since 1994. On October 5th, 1966, after the Intergovernmental Special Conference of Teachers in Paris, it was the anniversary of the unanimous acceptance of the Teachers' Status Advice by representatives of UNESCO and the International Labour Organization. In our country, the past of this meaningful day extends back to Ataturk, the newly established title of National School of Education. This title was officially published on 24 November 1928, with the publication of the People's Letters Instruction. On 24 November 1981, celebrations were decided to mark the anniversary of Ataturk's becoming head teacher. It is then celebrated as Teachers' Day Day Day Day 24 November 1992, as part of the Teachers' Day Celebration Charter, which was published in the Official Gazette on 26 November 1992. Dear lawmakers, a teacher is a person who has made it his profession to teach information. The first teachers of mankind are the prophets. They teach mankind what they know from God. The first teachers in the family are mothers, fathers. We all meet teachers at school after the prophet, the mother and the father. For him, the poet said, "It is like a prophet, not a prophet, not a mother, not a father, not a father, but a soul. Teaching is also sacred because of this sequence. It is vital for us to learn and teach as members of a religion whose first commandment is to read. In exchange for teaching 10 children to read and write, the Prophet has taught mankind that reading and writing are worth the price of freedom. Again, "I'll be a slave for 40 years to anyone who taught me a letter." The expression also reinforces that thought. Dear lawmakers, as a student, as a teacher, as a parent, as an administrator in the PTA, as a member of the National Board of Education, as a member of a teacher's class who has served in very different departments of education, I say it's a very enjoyable profession when you do it with love and faith. While I was teaching with my teachers, while I was working with some of my students at the county legislature, the doors I knocked on during the election work were, "Oh hodja!" There's no way to describe the joy I've had in interviewing my former students. With Socrates' testimony, it is possible to value everything in the world, but the teacher's work is priceless. Yes, with our teachers and training staff, who have doubled since 2002, everything will be better today than it was before, and tomorrow will be better than today. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0007par0059	Thank you. Now, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to the first 15 lawmakers who entered the system according to the Civil Code 60. Mr. Akin, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0008par0064	Mr. President, thank you. As of last night, fuel prices continue to burn pockets. In Ankara, unleaded gas found 5 liras. Gas went up to $4.97 with a 16-cent raise, and your engine went up to $4.34 with an 11-cent raise. Our citizen with a 60 litre tank will pay $300 to fill his tank. I don't know how those who lecture about economics can assess the improvements in foreign currency prices and rising fuel prices, but our people are very tired of these increases. While crude oil prices are seriously falling, those who don't discount the same rates of fuel are not too late to turn foreign exchange rates into opportunities. Stop your habit of reaching into our people's pockets through the increase in TSV and fuel with the increase in fuel.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0009par0067	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0010par0069	Mr. President, lawmakers, tomorrow the European Parliament will vote on temporary freeze of talks between Turkey and the European Union. The decision to make is a matter of recommendation. It's not binding, but it's important to sum up the point of our relations with the European Union. We're doing 49 per cent of our exports to the European Union countries. Our exports to Germany alone are more than 10 percent of our total exports, and even our exports to Germany are more than our total exports to members of the Shanghai Co-operation Organization, which the government is anxious to be part of. I want to remember that in an environment where investments in our country have declined, exports and tourism revenues have been constantly falling, bringing relations with the European Union to this point with populist policies, and making domestic political materials, for the benefit of our country and for the future of our country, there is no use to the government. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0011par0073	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0012par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. The possibility of restructuring all public receivables has been granted until November 25, 2016. However, the taxpayers, covered by study and history, are unable to benefit from the fact that the notice was made after the notification. The Ministry of Finance must weigh in on this matter immediately. In addition, the application period was extended until November 25, 2016. Due to the intensity of the tax office, the taxpayers, who had caused misdeeds and expired, were unable to apply for more time. Therefore, they do not benefit from the benefits of the law for all taxpayers. Will the Ministry of Finance extend the deadline for resolving the death of the taxpayers? In this regard, our society needs to be enlightened. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0013par0079	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0014par0081	Mr. President, I'd like to talk to you about Veli Spacis. He was a prisoner whose arm was cut off with a machine in his resuscitation operations; he was released; he went to the ECHR; his case was accepted; Turkey was sentenced to compensation. When Veli Sacis, whose arm had been cut off by the government, was terminated by the last decree of the law, which was not enough, he was seized for the 5,000 lira he had earned with his missing body. As such, the other branch of the congregation was cut off by the decree of the law. It says: 'For I am Alevi, for I am leftist, for I have been punished for not giving in. I'm not guilty of anything else. Now, what we want to say is that it is now within the law that the decrees must be removed from being the instrument of hatred and revenge of the state and not the means to punish the opponents. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0015par0085	Dear Maker...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0016par0087	Mr. President, we are hours away from celebrating a new Teacher's Day. Tomorrow, the ruling members will describe the importance of education, what a sacred profession teaching is, in fancy words with a lot of praise, and they will draw pink paintings. But behind the pink painting they're going to draw, it's a big darkness. In a period when the need for teachers is expressed in hundreds of thousands, the removal of thousands of teachers through exports and exiles also darkens the future of the educational system. No explanation has been made for our teachers who have been suspended for months without a concrete reason. On November 24th, the only beautiful thing we want to hear from power will be the news that thousands of suspended teachers have been terminated and returned to their duties. Every other conversation you give is a lie, a lie, a deception.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0015par0089	Mr. Aydemir...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0017par0091	Thank you. The 34th anniversary of our transition to open education in our country is a turning point in higher education. I would like to take this opportunity to mention Ataturk University, where Turkey's highest number of open school students have been able to collect after the University of Anatolia. For the past six years, 29 programmes, including four licenses, 22 preliminary licenses, and 3 licensing programmes, have been a source of hope for university youth, where tens of thousands of students have taken advantage of them. Our university, which understands the 60th year of independence, is not only Erzurum. It is also an elite educational institution in our region. Our university, which is a monument to higher education, also has a special position within our country's universities, with human and scientific values that it has given the country. In Erzurum, we give thanks and thanks to every name that comes from scientific excitement and determination. And, of course, we wish our students success in this brand, value, and address of higher education.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0015par0093	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0018par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, farmers are crying blood in Mersin. The burning and hypocritical policies carried out by the AKP (AKP) inland and abroad strike the most Mersin farmers. Mersin farmer is being sacrificed for his political interests. Anamur and Bozyaz farmer struggle with illegal bananas importers. His virtuous, big-accessed farmer is always hurting. The Tartarus farmer is a victim of the frost disaster that struck the grape, but he is even more victimized because of TARSEM. The narcissist manufacturer has yet to lower his back due to the crisis of the fall of the Russian plane, which is tomorrow's anniversary. Kazanlı, Karadur, Adanalıoğlu farmers pour their vegetables into the street. Mut, the Gulnar farmer couldn't pay for it. Dear friends, our farmer's blessed hand is heavy and will surely react in the chest.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0019par0098	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0020par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Minister of National Education: Iconya Selçuk Türk Telekom Profession and Technical Anadolu High School Director has reserved the ranks of girls and boys. We've heard this news a lot in the last few weeks. It's more like society is getting ready for something than random decisions. What's your Ministry's opinion on this? Such outdated practices are unacceptable in schools. Is there an investigation into this principal? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0021par0103	Mr. Yigit instead of Mr. Kayishoglu. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0022par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. When talking to friends of the AKP, they always say: "You never say the things we do well, but you keep saying the wrong things. " I want to thank you for the good things he's done here. I was at Kayseri last week. In Kayseri, it was built in a very beautiful camisole during Mr. Secretary's term, when he was mayor. I thank them for that. But we'll keep stressing your wrongs. As we all know, the lawmakers' association is shut down, the newspapers, radios and magazines that are not present or praiseless, the unionists who have no relation to you have been arrested or fired, you see, democracy has been suspended. It makes all the businessmen uncomfortable and uncomfortable, the euros and dollars keep rising. How long will your understanding of this extraordinary state continue? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0023par0110	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0024par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister Bakili Yıldırım has recently gone to Tripoli, an honorary citizen. Here, we owe you service. He told you that in 14 years they had done 14 quadrillion budget-funded services to Tripoli, explaining the projects of numerous services such as Zigana, 2 tunnels, boulevards and intersections, 2EST universities, city hospitals, and most importantly the railway. Without a doubt, these are to meet the needs of that province, which our citizens there deserve, but we expect the Prime Minister to show the same sensitivity to other provinces of the Black Sea. For example, the railway is the right of all provinces, not only to Tripoli, but to Artvin, starting from Samsun. The railway line must not be abandoned by Torul to Tirebolu, and then through Giresun and Tripoli to cross the provinces. I've also submitted a question proposal with extensive information on the subject. I'm waiting for an answer from the government, Mr. Prime Minister. The Prime Minister, who says the Erzincan-Trabzon connection will be made by 2023, must explain the districts of this route. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0025par0115	Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0026par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. In his speech at the group meeting on November 8th, Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım announced that the sugar beets were set at $210 an advance price in 2017. It's not 2017 yet, but Mr. Prime Minister is explaining the price of sugar beets. He made no comment on the purchase price of 2016, and farmers were victimised by selling sugar beets over the price of 2015. Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to resolve this problem and address the victims of our farm brothers, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0025par0119	Mr. Konkar...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0027par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. During a meeting of recent developments in Turkey and accession talks with the EU, political party groups in the European Parliament agreed to freeze talks with Turkey yesterday. There will be a vote on a joint text that we believe will be drawn up in this framework tomorrow. As our President made very clear this morning, the European Parliament has no value to us at all. In the face of what has happened in Turkey, I would like to express to you that the European Union institutions have failed to take a stand alongside democracy, human rights and the legal state, that some of the European Parliament's executives have taken the actions and statements of terror organizations that have no duty to them, that this distrust between us and the European Parliament can be repaired in the first place, and that the European Parliament, in the face of all terrorist organisations targeting Turkey, has shown a genuine and complete co-operation in the fight against Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0028par0124	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0029par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. On the evening of November 17th, 16 workers who worked in the minefield after the landslide took place in Shirvan district of Siirt. Ten workers are still under the ground. Another sad news came from Zonguldak yesterday. A worker was killed and a worker injured in the coal mine. In his statement, Mr. Secretary, it is our duty to keep the firm, the safe, the discreet, to do what is necessary. I'm calling from here to Mr. Secretary, if you'd done what's necessary, Mr. Secretary, we wouldn't have lost nearly 20,000 workers in your 14 years of power in business accidents. There's been a massacre in Soma, and your answer is to kick painful families. In Ermenek, you gave a spicy father a pair of rubber shoes. This is Turkey, there's death in the outside of the workers. You've dodged it by saying, but remember, if there's a exoneration of murders and rapists on your sonnet, there's a trail of killers on our property.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0028par0129	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0030par0131	Of course, increasing national and individual prosperity is the most important factor in education -- the efficient and efficient implementation of democratic secular and modern governance, which respects human rights and freedoms, and a nation's confidence in the future. While the chief teacher Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and our teachers who lost their lives were talking about mercy, gratitude, and gratitude, at no time in their lives, Çanakkale Minister Ahmet Mantaş, who had no relationship with the backward communities, was still suspended by the opposition of Peace Demir and Muittin Tut's governorship decision and the chief of presidential education. When will these teachers be reinstated? We want you to give them good news on Teacher's Day. I celebrate the 24th November Teacher's Day of Teachers of all teachers who are on duty, suspended, expelled, unable to meet their students because they cannot be appointed.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0028par0132	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0031par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. In Artvin, my district of choice, which has the most beautiful geography of Turkey, the Forest Ministry, Hopa Sunli village and Arhavi Balıkli village have declared the waterfall areas of nature and national park. Again, the Menchuna Falls, where there really are endemic species in the Kamilet Valley of Arhavi, in the same area, and more than 100 metres of waterfalls have been found, was unfortunately not included in the same area. The reason they're not included in this is because one of Turkey's major conglomerates has done HES projects on that valley, and we know who they are. We demand that this Kamilet Valley be declared a national park as soon as possible. Other than that, there has been serious damage due to last year's flood in Arhavi, but the losses of those who have been damaged have not been compensated; the victims are still suffering, and the tradesman is severely victimised. The flood of the government in Arhavi, and Hopa.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0032par0138	Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0033par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. Balıkesir Balya district, the village of Mustecap is at the point of rebellion. Some companies say that they will force peasants to sell their fields, their land, to build an organised industrial area there, and if they don't sell it, they will buy themselves a thousand lira at a price. I speak to the Department of Agriculture officials here: I report the attempts of our villagers to earn their bread with the sweat of their lives, to remove their farms from the hands of tributes, which they have contributed to agricultural production, by pressing charges against them. I invite the Department of Agriculture officials to look after the fields of the village of Mustecap, the labors of the villagers.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0034par0143	Finally, Mr. Haberal...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0035par0145	Hey, forearm! The forearm! / Leads to the front. / Mother says stop,/ He won't stop. / The lamb walks, the lamb walks,/ the forefront walks. / As the lambs cry,/ my heart breaks! / The foreclosure, hey! The forearm! / Leads to the front. / This flag won't fall,/ Last lamb unless you die! On the 23rd of November 1970, at the age of 22 in the men's technical higher teacher's school, we remember Dursun Önkuzu, who was pumped and killed on the 3rd floor, with mercy and gratitude and gratitude in the 46th year of his testimony. May God have mercy on him, his place, his place, his paradise.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0034par0147	Thank you. Master, you've entered the system. Here, I promise you for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0036par0151	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to pick up where Erkan Bey left off. We believe in the highest rank in the sight of God, and in the ranks of the prophets. In the glorious past of the Muslim Turkish nation, many suns have sunk for the sake of a crescent, many sacrifices, many epic battles on the road to country and nation. This saintly land we know of is watered by the blood of martyrs, and the symbol of our independence is the moon starry al flag from the blood of martyrs. Our martyrs are the courage that defies the oppressor, the nobility that does not honor the traitor, the dignity that protects the country, the dignity that is honored to serve the nation. Our martyrs are our pride, our pride, and will remain so forever. Turkey's continuation of existence and unity has faced many obstacles throughout history in its future and future route of Turkey and Islam. For centuries they've set traps to intercept the Turkish nation, they've operated with the intent to dynamite our brotherhood, they've organized games, they've queued up to destroy our national line, they've planned for us to come together, to separate ourselves. Exactly forty-six years ago, Ertugrul Dursun Önkuz was murdered by traitors at the age of 22 on 23 November 1970. The 1970s were the years when the ulterior movement paid the ultimate price on the road to victory. In order to protect the Turkish state and its nation against the red wind from the north, more than 5,000 country-based young bitches faced the bullets and fell into a rose garden in the dark of the ground. Thousands of statesmen have become veterans, many of them have suffered in dungeons, but Muslim Turkish nationalists have not failed, for thousands of years.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0037par0159	Mr. Master, let's wrap this up in a minute.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0036par0160	Dursun's Önkuzu, along with his testimony, has been a symbol of fighting for Turkish nationalists, determination and determination, leading those who came after him. Turkish nationalists, as they did yesterday, acted on the motto of my country and nation, then my party and myself. Yes, the martyrship of Dursun Önkuzu has changed a lot in Turkey. The people of the land shall die a thousand dead and live a thousand. Some of the sleepers woke up on these occasions. We are on the path of our martyrs. We are on the side of the Turkish nation we were born with. We are the Nationalist Movement Party, who has been healed by a martyr's prayer, who hopes to come to ancient values, who refuses to serve anyone other than God, who has taken his power from history, who has found his identity in the source of national culture. With these thoughts, thousands of martyrs have lost their lives for the sake of country, nation and flag, all our martyrs and veterans who have made this land our homes, our martyrs and veterans who have died fighting traitors in the east and southeast, our late Prime Minister Alparslan Turkesh Bey, with gratitude and gratitude, I wish all of them to God. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0038par0163	Mr. Ironel, please. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0039par0166	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, these photographs clearly reveal the picture of today's Parliament during the November 4th coup. In what you call the coup d'état of November 4th, it's completely illegal for our co-chairs, our fellow lawmakers, our group presidents to be taken hostage. Under the roof of the House of Congress on this illegal procedure, we see that you and the ministry have made no comment on it. Because it's against the law; what you're doing, what you're showing is taking the people's will, and why are our friends exiled to different provinces, not cities where they're being held hostage, why Edirne Prison, Kandira F Type F, why are the Silivri F types separated privately, and why are our friends being kept in isolation there in a way that has already been decided? It's very urgent in this House that you and the ministry, as you conduct this session, need to be very clear here because we're concerned that you and the ministry -- in the news right now -- have very urgent problems with prisons, and that they've been violated at different points. Just yesterday, we say that the Silivri Correctional Director was suspended because of his relationship with the congregation, and that the process applies to all prisons. We expect an explanation immediately. Why is this statement kept in separate prisons and why is it kept in solitary cells, our MPs and co-chairs? These are our deputies representing the will of the nation, which should be explained here. Right now, here, with the decision of the administration of our lawmakers, co-chairs and group vice president, who are supposed to carry out legislature activities, the decision of the government...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0038par0169	Please complete in one minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0039par0171	We know that the AKP government and its government are currently in isolation. We also know that from past practices of the AKP government. So let no one call us "law." Second, let's say that if the law did, how can you link a process in which the attorney general in five counties was detained at midnight on the same day as an operation, where they all went to prisons? How can you say that there are reports of arrests of all our lawmakers and co-chairs in the media's organs when the judges still haven't made their decision? Again, we know very well that the Edirne F-type prison was prepared days ago. Again, we know very well that these preparations were made in Kandira, and in Silivri. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're asking you, very clearly, to answer that question. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0040par0177	Thank you. Mr. Ironel, I don't think that's our answer. It's not an app we can do.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0039par0179	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0040par0180	This is more than just a political event. We don't have a chance to interfere with the judiciary.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0039par0181	Let me put it this way: well, then...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0040par0182	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0039par0183	Mr. President, I'm going to say something about this statement of yours.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0040par0184	You asked us...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0039par0185	Okay...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0040par0186	Ben, there's nothing we can do, not the political dimension, but the judgment and judgment...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0039par0187	Right now, the extent of the judgment is...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0040par0188	Besides, Turkey's Grand National Assembly has lifted these immunitys with 376 MPs here. There's a trial going on because of the immunity files that have been removed, and it's the judicial authorities who will decide.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0041par0189	We'll answer, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0039par0190	President, we know that. We're going to explain all this. But right now -- what you need to do -- we need the Justice Department to brief the House on the situation of our deputies and co-chairs.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0040par0191	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0039par0192	He has the authority to inform the Assembly of the isolation at their current residence, and we're delivering this request.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0040par0193	I think the Department of Justice will get the necessary notes, and we'll pass them along.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0039par0194	In accordance with this request, he must inform the House and inform the public.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0040par0195	Okay. Thank you. So, we move on to the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Members of parliament, before the appointment of Public Chief Justice Honor Malkoc, elected Public Chief Justice, Malkoc will be required to take an oath under the 13th Article of the Law on Public Controllership No. 6328. Now, Mr. Honor, I'm going to call Malkoch to the stand to take an oath. Here you go, Mr. Malkoch.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0042par0204	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you and the High Council. I stand before you to make the oath of Public Chief Justice. First of all, I'd like to thank all of you for honoring us with the role of Public Chief of Staff. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to take the oath. [[The oath of Public Chief Justice Honor Malkoc]] Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit02spe0043par0213	He says good luck, and we wish you all the best as the Presidential Court. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit03spe0043par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to study the problems of our workers in our country in a comprehensive way, to reduce their accidents to a minimum, to be conscious of our workers and employers, to be able to monitor closely the problems of our workers who have been exposed to occupational illness after long working in environments that will affect human health, to eliminate these unhealthy environments and to investigate the impact of these occupational diseases on the economy, we propose the opening of the Constitution by the 98th, the 104th and 105th Articles of Internal Law. [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] 5) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Balıkesir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] 11) Edip Semih Yalçın [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Aydın]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mughle]] [[Samsun]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] 20) Ismail Faruk Aksu [[İstanbul]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] Business accidents and occupational illness are among the most important areas of working life. According to International Labour Organization (ILO), 2,300,000 people die every year in the world due to occupational accidents and occupational illness. Business accidents often stem from the quality of employees, the lack of professional safety awareness, the way countries industrialize and the way they operate. Business accidents and permanent occupational illness occur as a result of the lack of necessary measures for workers who come from different professions and start working in an industrial environment and have no vocational training in their working environment. The most important factor for this accident and occupational illness is noise. There are effects of noise on human health, behavioral disorders, anger, general sense of discomfort, boredom, circulatory disorders, respiratory acceleration, reduction in work efficiency, concentration disorders. Constant noise affects the hearing in workers, causing temporary and permanent hearing loss. Unfortunately, most small-time businesses don't even use little headphones to prevent it. Again, another important factor is the work of workers in unhealthy environments. Many of our workers who work in the environments of heavy chemicals have no idea what kind of damage they're going to do to the chemicals they're working with. Employers do not take any precautions. Long and unguarded, our employees who work with these chemicals suffer from permanent professional health problems. Business accidents are rapidly increasing in our country, measures to prevent these accidents are insufficient. According to Social Security Agency (SGK) data on 14/12/2015, there were 195,16,226,837 occupational accidents in 2013. In 2013, 1,215 workers were killed, 97, 713 were injured; in 2014 1,497 people were killed and 108,567 workers were injured. In Ankara on February 3, 2011, 20 workers and workers lost their lives and many others were injured in explosions at two different workplaces at different hours on two different days in the OSTIM and Ivedik Organised Industrial Territories. The reason for the explosions was the official explosion of industrial tubes, which were used in these workplaces and were filled with burning explosives, due to the poor, uncontrollable and faulty production of the industrial tubes. 301 of our workers were killed in the Soma disaster, which was reported in the media as the "Black Day" on 13 May 2014 as the most life-losing business and mining accident in the history of the Republic of Turkey. Unfortunately, the lack of proper measures and controls in this tragedy that has overwhelmed us deeply has invited us to this accident. In accordance with the above statements, we benefit from a parliamentary investigation of business accidents and occupational diseases in our country, taking the necessary measures to reduce these accidents to a minimum, raising awareness of workers and employers, and reducing business accidents to a minimum. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In commercial life, we propose and propose that a parliamentary study be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th and Interior Charter (the Constitution) on the return of checks and bonds which have not been paid. 14/01/2016 [[Isparta]] [[Mersin]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] 10) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 11) Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu [[Hatay]] [[Kayseri]] [[Mughle]] [[Adana]] [[Samsun]] [[Erzurum]] 17) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] In commercial life, in valuable documents, not everyone can pay their checks, their bills; check and the bonds have a return. It's built on commercial life, trust, and solid work. There is no more trust, and commercial life is greatly weakened. In particular, small and medium-sized companies have to sell their goods, they don't turn their business around; they pay on credit for it, but the checks and bonds he gets in return for it go unrequited. The interest of taxes that can't be paid because of the high taxes that have been placed on our tradesmen is at the top of the challenges. The situation with the SEC, the BUG-KUR is the same with taxes. The business owner or tradesman, who is short of cash, turns to women for credit and credit as a last resort, and finds a temporary solution to their problems. Already struggling with taxes, salaries, and the SEC, the tradesman also struggled with a credit card and credit card he received from banks. In our country, super and hypermarkets are virtually out of domesticity, in the hands of global capital. As long as the practices continue, more and more of our tradesmen will be shut down; this will become the environment in which a number of major companies are in control of the markets. In this case, more tradesmen in many counties of our country, suffering from transport and marketing, will have to close down their businesses, unemployment and economic crisis will be felt more. The situation of our merchants, tradesmen and artists in the national economy is possible with the healthy functioning of the law, which fairly covers all new dignitaries. Again, this is also very important in agricultural products. The farmer has to take his product out of his hands quickly, so he's being very selective, and the check pays his property in exchange for the bond, but he can't take his money, and he's spending a lot of money to get it. This leads to tremendous negative, social, economic distress on the manufacturer. In this regard, the parliamentary research commission must be set up to determine the situation and determine the measures that can be taken. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to unofficial data, the prisons in Turkey have 720 inmates, 282 of whom are heavy. Patient prisoners, prisoners and prisoners with severe illness, especially political prisoners, are left to die. In order to examine and resolve the situation of all sick prisoners, I propose and recommend the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 98th, 104th and 105th of the Constitution. [[Gaziantep]] [[Diyarbakır]] 3) Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mwah.]] 11) Burcu Çelik Özkan [[Mwah.]] [[Siirt]] [[Siirt]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Tunceli]] [[Van]] 23) Tuğba Hezer Özturk [[Van]] Each individual deprived of its freedom must be treated according to the requirements of human rights. The clause is first part of the European Prison Rules. Incarceration is also considered a human rights issue. However, it has been highlighted that there will be no additional punishment for those deprived of freedom. In prisons in Turkey, there are cases that are hosting every day, which have no legal basis, which are destroying the principles of conscience. Although prisoners and prisoners with severe illness have no probable cause, prisoners are left to death and psychological torture by taking a political stance. The fact that the treatment of their disease is not possible in prisons or that they have reached the final stage of their illness, that patients who can't take care of themselves, who need to be released urgently, continue to be kept in prison means that the political attitude, which gives people no other rights except to spend their lives in agony, has unfortunately preferred to deliver coffins to the entire community. Patients and prisoners who are also psychologically wanted to be intimidated are suffering from severe difficulties in the process of receiving approval from the Medical Examiner's Office. Hospital reports, which have been waiting for weeks and months of approval in the medical examiner's office, affect patients and prisoners psychologically. Patient prisoners and prisoners are being called to İstanbul Forensic Medicine on several hours of travel and most of the sick prisoners and prisoners called in face rejection. In February 2013, the death penalty was added to the Penal Code until the sentence of the prisoner, who was deemed not a danger to public safety, could not live alone in prison due to severe illness or injury. In addition to this arrangement, the right of the sick prisoners to live and to die is taken away by the article threatening public security. According to studies conducted by independent observer delegations visiting sick prisoners in prisons, sick prisoners and inmates are not required to go to hospital and examine for a long time. Patients' health is endangered by these practices. Despite a severe and urgent condition, some further medical examinations are given for a long period of three or four months. Patient prisoners and prisoners are taken to health centers in inappropriate ring vehicles instead of ambulances from execution institutions. Heavy patients are held in ring vehicles without any examination or examination due to some procedures. Heavy patient prisoners and prisoners are often examined and subjected to medical procedures in violation of the İstanbul Protocol provisions and legislation on this issue. Protecting all rights in prisons, including the right to life of prisoners, is primarily the responsibility of the state. It is important that an immediate arrangement for heavy-duty prisoners with their lives tied to cotton threads is carried out without leaving room for discussion or vague statements. While the legal requirements of the problem are put aside and handled by human size, the government is expected to quickly develop a comprehensive solution, considering the sensitivity of the issue. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Wednesday (23/11/2016) there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On November 23, 2016, it has been suggested that the meeting of MP Erhan and MP Erhan of Samsun Group and MP of the MHP Group and Manisa MP Erkan Akçay (Dec) to be held on Wednesday (January 23/11/2016) in a joint session of the recent negatives in Turkey's economy and the reasons for its impact on macroeconomic indicators in order to determine the reasons for it's impact on macroeconomic indicators. The first statement in favour of the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal is from Samsun MP Erhan Usta. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit03spe0044par0180	Thank you. Mr. President, dear MPs, we have a group of proposals for the National Movement Party. Our group proposal is about recent negatives in Turkey's economy and its impact on macroeconomic indicators. I have made a promise on this matter. I salute the General Assembly. Now, first of all, why did we give such a group suggestion, perhaps we should explain it. When we express our views on Turkey's economy on different occasions, we say: Turkey's economy is not going well, unfortunately, it's going badly; alarm bells have been ringing in Turkey's economy for a long time. In fact, when we look at all the official statistics, when we're on the street, when we're dealing with the citizen, when we're looking at the manufacturer, the consumer, the industry, the business, the agriculture, the farmer. I assume all lawmakers face such complaints. In addition, in recent times, an additional pressure has come upon the economy for both internal and external reasons, and we need to see this. But -- I'll give you some examples -- although it's pressure, it's clear from government members' statements that they're not acting very responsible. So we see a series of statements that look down on the work, that don't understand the value of the job. So we made a group suggestion because we thought that the Assembly should have a bit of a say in the matter. Now, we're always saying that growth has fallen. Turkey's economy has shrunk 4.8 per cent in the 2009 crisis. It's an important reduction, a serious reduction. Later, there was an uncontrollably high growth for two years, but in the next five years, Turkey's economy was doomed to low growth in order to repair the damage that two years of high growth created in the economy. Such a process. So for the past five years, especially in the last five years, there's been a low growth process. In 2016, especially as of the second half -- we're talking to the figures of the government again -- although this figure is not clearly mentioned, it can be accounted for because the government predicts 3.2 growth of the economy in 2016 -- when we consider the growth of the first half, around 2 per cent in the second half, it is declared by the government that the growth of 2 per cent is going to be slightly higher than 2 per cent. 2% growth is an extremely small, inadequate growth for an economy like ours. Our competitors are growing at 56%. There are 7-8 growing economies, but on average, we know that the developing countries are growing around 5 percent, over 5 percent. Therefore, if this country has high goals and high goals, we have to grow our country better if there is one. To grow better is to take precautions, to grow better is to figure out what the problem is and go for it. Now, you see, the production has been severely slowed down. For example, in production, friends, in the last seven months, when we look at the production industry production data, seasonally corrected, 5 of them are negative; 5 of them are negative in the last seven months, only 2 of them are positive. So there's something wrong with the manufacturing industry. You know, I'm not going to tell you these numbers so I don't get too many numbers, but if seven months of data, five of data, there's a serious problem with this economy. You're looking at employment, of course, and when production goes down, employment has to go down. First, let me tell you the registered employment data of the SGK. There are 20 million 773 thousand registered jobs in December 2015 according to Social Security Agency data. In August 2016 -- in August of August of 2016 -- you know, there's a lot of seasonality in the labour force -- I mean, there's a lot of growth in employment in August, but it's still going down to 20,405. I mean, there's a loss of 367,000 jobs in eight months, according to Social Security. There's a chance to elaborate, but I'm not gonna waste too much time with him. And when we look at the TİK data, which includes registered plus unregistered employment, there's a very serious situation here. First of all, let me tell you, especially I have more structural problems in the economy than the problems of the last five years, which we've already said over and over in the last few months, and let's not see this last month as just a question of July 15th. So from the beginning of 2016 or from the first quarter of 2016, Turkey's economy became a serious crisis. Then, of course, there's the July 15th insecurity environment, and there's the trouble it brings. I'm afraid we're going to have to feel more of this from now on. In data so far, we've actually seen a partial impact on the events of July 15th. Now, look, from April, seasonal corrective data shows unemployment has increased by 1.5 points. Now, a member of parliament from the last ruling group says that unemployment has increased by 1.5 points. Friends, an increase in unemployment by 1.5 points is a proportional increase in unemployment by 15 per cent. The countries have been working for ten years to cut 1.5 points in unemployment. So, in four months, unemployment rate is up by 1.5 points, and the congressman's statement is up by 1.5 points. It's too dangerous, too wrong. If we don't see these issues, if we don't read the work correctly, these problems will get worse. Turkey's unemployment rate is 11.4 per cent in August -- I'm saying according to the figures that have been purged of the current effects, so we can compare month to month -- so we have 11.4 per cent of the unemployment rate. There's a group that doesn't say "I'm unemployed" because there's no hope of getting a job, and when we add them, the unemployment rate is 20 percent. An economy with a 20% unemployment rate is not a sustainable economy. And even worse, the unemployment rate is increasing, come on, what's going on? Since last April, we look at the number of employees, friends -- look, not the number of workers, not the number of workers -- there's also a reduction in the number of employees in the last four months, so there's job loss, there's a loss of employment. I'm afraid these jobs are going to get worse next semester. Therefore, the situation must be settled. That's why we're filing a motion to investigate Congress. Now, you're looking at the trust index, and that kind of trust index has almost never happened. I haven't been able to find anything like this since the time of the trust index. There are five subdivisions, I won't go into too many details of the Economic Trust Index. In October, five lower trust indexes -- consumers, real sectors, service sectors, retail sectors and construction sectors -- are all negative, so there's a lack of trust in the economy at the same time, the trust index is negative, and the Economic Trust Index is 8.3 percent smaller in a month. Now, you're looking at inflation, there's high inflation, there's about 7 percent inflation, despite your five percent goals, but there's a good thing about it, since July, inflation was dropping, so we're going to see an upward trend in inflation -- from July 8,79 to 12 months inflation -- and we're going to see inflation coming from 7.2 per cent, because of the excess fluctuation in the wolf. The international jargon, the credit risk exchange, shows the risk state of the countries. See, here Turkey's CDS is 253 base points, the highest CDS after Brazil is Turkey's CDS rate, which is the international perception of risk in Turkey. When we look at the following loans, consumer loans, credit cards, individual loans, credit cards, the overall rate of tracking loans to loans has reached 9.3 per cent as of November 2016. Do you know what this is? This is the highest rate since the 2009 crisis. Again, the proportion of consumer loans is the highest since the 2009 crisis. So I'd like to draw your attention to this particular area. There are other numbers here, and I'm not going to go into them. You're looking at exports, and the decline in exports continues. Turkey unfortunately can't find the export figures it caught three or four years ago today. You're looking at the Cari deficit, with the slowdown in the economy, the development of oil prices in our favor, along with progress in our favor in the gold trade, there was a current decline in the open. Actually, it's not open, so how many times have I said that here in numbers, I'm not going to go there again. Headline's dropping, so if we look at it as analysis, it's not dropping. The headline number, however, has also developed a tendency to rise again in the last two months, with annualized figures. Now, after all that, Mr. Prime Minister, the dollar comes down, brother, what's happening to you? Something like that. Now, the Minister of Economy says we have nothing to worry about. By the way, there's a dollar based on 3,40, and since New Year's, Turkish money has lost 17 percent of its value to dollars, and there's a lot of -- and I won't say anything about it if the loss of value is stable -- there's a fluctuation. How will the exporter put a price on a place where there's fluctuation? If you were exporters, how would you price a product you'd sell in two or three months? You don't have dollars, you have Turkish lira costs. So, therefore, there's no way anyone can do business in this fluctuation environment. Mr. Lütfi Elvan, sir, we've seen that our citizens haven't sold currency in the last few days, that they're holding, that they're more likely to get foreign currency. This is all wrong. He says he blames the citizen, the Minister of Development. The Minister of Economy is separate, the Prime Minister is separate. We've already seen how irresponsible the ministers speak in Moody. So I'm saying that Parliament should be in a position to investigate the progress of the Turkish economy, and I expect your support for our group proposal. I salute your high council. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit03spe0045par0202	Thank you, Master. The first word against the proposal belongs to Kahramanmarash MP Mehmet Ugur Dilipak. Here you go, Mr. Dilipak.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit03spe0046par0206	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have made a commitment against the MHP Group's motion on Turkey's economy, which I hereby salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, first of all, I would like to point out that the motions for research must be from a need. Do we know the number of research proposals from November 1, 2015 to April 20, 2016? Since I couldn't get this up to date, I've based here on April 20th. A total of 890 research motions have been submitted. If these had been put on the agenda and the commissions had been created, each commission would have had a total of 14,200 people, assuming that there were 16 people, or that the entire Assembly would have to be on 25 commissions at the same time, each of the 550 MPs. I offer this to the people's discretion. The MHP Group, which is the subject of today's research proposal, has made a proposal for the Turkish economy. The current economy of Turkey, regardless of economic developments in the world, is based on a number of numbers that are completely unrealistic. Since 2008 growth figures have been downgraded in the basis of the relevant motion, it is as if there are different economic imbalances in Turkey. If you remember, our founder, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in his statement at the time, said that this crisis would tangent us. There were many different assessments. The following assessments show that our economy has been compromised as a case. Of course, by then many countries have lost their country's integrity as well as economic independence, with the Arab Spring, Syrian events, Iraq events, terrorist organizations such as the NYD, DEAS, active roles in the region. It's obvious what happened today. We cannot, of course, be affected by these events that are happening in our midst. On July 15th, the imperialist forces that have activated the occupation movement in our country and their treacherous servants have meant for the sake of our country, for tomorrow. In this environment, our government and our political parties have been able to join hands with their nation and overcome this problem. Dear friends, we all know the political process of our country and the world -- Syria, Mosul, Iraq, Europe, America, Russia -- political developments in the region have affected the whole world in every way. As far as our country's strategic position, domestic terrorist organizations have influenced the economy as much as they would like to fight the ▪ and the PKK, but it is not like the opposition painted. For example, despite the July 15 coup attempt, on July 18th, our banks were open, our stock markets were active, our economy worked smoothly as if nothing had happened. In the same way, our people put their savings worth billions of dollars in gold under pillows, depending on their state, nation and government, and our occupied airport opened for international flight one day later on July 15th. Remember, there was a bomb attack in Brussels, and the airport was closed for three months. Even this example alone shows that our country is strong and safe in all areas. Dear friends, of course, we've all been affected by these developments as a nation. Because of the circumstances, there's been some stasis in our investors, what's going on with our traders. Our power is not too late to come up with permanent solutions to this, but has done what is necessary, and will continue to do so. Despite all the negativity around us, it is true that Turkey's efforts to turn one face to the West, one face to the East, and develop policies that are respected and respected in the world. Talks with the Shanghai Co-operation Organization are under way as part of a new economic co-operation work in the region. The economic co-operation agreements with Iran this month are the most concrete example. Dear friends, in the world, some cards have been re-stuffed, along with the fact that Trump is President of the United States. As a result, the dollar has gained value in the face of many countries' currency. It's the most obvious example of the Euro/dollar parity approaching up to 1. In general, the volume of commerce in the world is half of growth and growth occurs depending on it, but right now, the world's volume and volume of growth in the world have been compromised in favour of growth, causing stability on the world's economy. We are witnessing economic stability in many world countries because of these events that have happened entirely outside of us. World leaders are working to find a solution to this situation. Dear friends, we are also improving by the economic growth rate of 3.1, more than 21 percent of the 28 EU countries. Given the indicators of the debt to the household, the households have maintained around 21 per cent of its GDP debt, compared to the amount of disposable income and the proportion of total financial assets in the first quarter of 2016. The GDP rate of debt is better in Turkey than in many countries, including the United States, the Netherlands and Denmark. Our dear friend just spoke to a CDS data, and we need to talk. Turkey's CDS premiums are increasing in the result of higher risk in the world's conjunctive, drawing a good profile by leaving the developing countries in a negative direction. I'd like to give another example: World economy will grow by 3.1 in 2016 by the International Fund of Money (IMF); developed economies will grow by 1.6 and developing economies will grow by 4.2. Our goal for growth in 2017 is 4.4 in forecasting programmes in the medium-term programme under a weak course in the global economy. Dear friends, as you can see, Turkey has become a safe haven as a hope for some of the lonely, some of the strange. Our government will move forward in the economy, as it has been in every field for nearly 16 years. No one can prevent it, and those who try to prevent it will have the answer, just as they did on July 15th. On this occasion, the General Assembly salutes, and I thank you all.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit03spe0047par0219	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit03spe0048par0220	In his speech, the speaker stated that my data on 2008 was not true. I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit03spe0047par0221	It's a bit of a challenge, but here you go, Mr. Master. I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease. And now you're going to say that the numbers you're giving are not true.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit03spe0049par0227	He didn't give me a number. Now, I've come to understand from the speaker's speech... first of all, the 2008 data: we say the 2008 data -- in fact -- is below 1%. We haven't even written down the number, so the growth of the economy of Turkey in 2008 has been 0.7, so let's just say that first. In 2008, look, no one had a global crisis in 2009. So we'll do a lot of analysis on these things. From the second half of 2007, Turkey had already begun a serious growth decline. 0.7 in 2008; more global crisis -- of course, they have a beginning, but not in that sense. In 2009 he passed the tangent, and the speaker said, "The boat has passed." When our President was Prime Minister, he passed by. They called him. In 2009, the recession in Turkey's economy was 4.8 per cent, friends. Again, let's say, as of a quarter unscheduled from the impact of the calendar: the recession in the Turkish economy is 14.2 per cent in the first quarter of 2009. See if there were any other economies in the world that were so narrowed down, so small. The tangent didn't go through, so if we're going to say that there's been a tangent in a 48%-year-old economy that narrows down 14 per cent in a single quarter, I can't say anything about it. So we need to look at it right. And I'll tell you this: in our friend's speech, there are a lot of research proposals, commission proposals. As far as I'm concerned, no research commission has been set up on economic issues. So, from what you're saying, there's a need, but it's not enough, as I understand it. And IMF figures. The IMF has estimates up to 2021. It exists for all countries around the world. Turkey is estimated to grow by 3.3 per cent. The average is 4.9 per cent for developing countries. So developing countries have a growth forecast for Turkey under 1.6 points. Don't compare us to developed economies, we'll make the comparison right. It's not right that our growth is high according to the developed Western economies. Our preference is the developing country's economies. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit03spe0050par0233	Thank you. The second word in favour of the proposal now belongs to Tekirdağ MP Faik Oztrak. Here you go, Mr. Oztrak.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit03spe0051par0240	Thank you. Mr. President, I've been promised to express the opinion of the Republican People's Party's Group on the motion by the National Movement Party to investigate the effects of the negatives in the economy. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our fellow citizens who follow us. Dear lawmakers, I am warning the government about the global economic climate that has been changing for a long time, the vulnerability that has been evident in our economy and the increased risks. As a friend of yours who knows what it is to fall off the roof, as a crisis-directed friend, I'm giving these warnings so that our nation, our citizens, don't lose their jobs, don't lose their peace, because I know that the burden of every economic crisis, the burden of every crisis, the burden of adversity, is on the poorest, the most vulnerable, the most indebted part of society. However, I see that the government, which is supposed to be a problem for citizens, is not seriously bent on matters, but is late in taking the necessary measures. The government and the ministers have only one agenda, and that is to take part in the palace's reigning boat. So we have to address the unresolved problems of the citizen from the Turkish Grand National Assembly bench, but you're telling us about the crisis. There are those who say, "We don't tell crises, we invite you to the mission." The speaker who spoke just now said there are many commissions. Actually, there should be a lot more commissions, because the government isn't doing business, so it's up to us. Precious lawmakers are currently in the Plan and Budget Commission for the 2017 fiscal year budget talks. All balances and projections of the medium-term program, which is based on these talks, have been invalidated before the ink is dry. We started 2016 with a 4.5 per cent growth bid, and in October, the government drew the growth forecast to 3.2 per cent. This is just for 2016, the year we're in. Now it seems that even this unsubstantiated and inadequate growth will no longer be caught. In the third month of this year, industrial production narrowed by 3.2 per cent compared to last year. The latest indicators on consumer confidence and expectations show that things have not been going well in the last quarter, the latest growth forecast for 2016 was 2.9 per cent; while only a month ago, the market expected growth of 3.2 per cent. Dear lawmakers, not only do unemployment slows down in production and growth, but unemployment figures now make it clear that alarm bells are ringing in the economy. The latest August unemployment figure is 11.3 per cent; this is the highest August unemployment rate since 2009, when the global crisis took place. Absorbing unemployment is 13.7% in the same period; this is the peak of the last seventy-six months. In the last year, there have been 435,000 unemployed people who have risen to 3.5 million and have not been looking for a job, but if you give me a job, I will work. With those who say, there are 6 million unemployed. The youth's unemployment has risen to 19,19 per cent, and every five young person looking for a job can't find a job. Again, the value of the dollar against Turkish lira is breaking new records every day. The average dollar expected for 2017 was $3.18 in a non-dry middle-term program. Now, just now, before I got here, I looked at the TV, the valued lawmakers, and the court is currently at $3.39. Prime Minister, what do we care about the price of the dollar, the wedding holiday that comes with a hand in the fire of an unstoppable rapid increase? What will happen if it does, and if it doesn't? He tries to ignore it with such words as these. Since 23 September, Turkey's grade fell, Turkish lira has been the highest-valued currency in countries similar to the cost of 14 per cent against dollars. Again, it is said that the elections in the United States caused the loss of Turkish lira. The elections in the United States were held on November 8th, and since then, I will wall the border between the newly elected President of the United States of America. The second largest currency lost after the pesos of what he calls Mexico. Mr. Prime Minister, you can't escape the truth. The companies and families you've sunk in debt are very uncomfortable with this going on. If the real-estate currency debt of the real-estate sector, which is $6.5 billion in 2002, is now $210.5 billion, your imports have increased from 22 per cent to 27 per cent, how do you tell me what I care about dollars? What do I care about the PM's dollar? What happens if it doesn't fill, or what happens if it doesn't? From mid-October to today, the real sector has reached 62 billion Turkish liras in currencies. There's also a raise on import entries. The minimum wage, $446 at the beginning of the year, went down to $383 today. In the first ten months of this year, the amount of the bills were increased by 21 per cent compared to last year, up to 9.6 billion Turkish liras. Dear lawmakers, the people's vaccine is dwindling, it's getting a little harder to get a job every day, and the families' debt is getting worse. You took the government's debt, left it on the back of the nation. Now, there's just been a talk about the gross domestic rate of the family's debt, and I'll tell you this: the Global Fortune Report was announced yesterday. According to the report, in 2002 each adult citizen in this country owed $470, the same debt increased by 1,195 per cent to $6,089 per cent. As we bring up the rapid increase in debt, the AKP says, "These loans go to investment, increase national income." But now we see that when the debt increases, neither investment has increased nor wealth. In 2011, private sector investments fell from 18 per cent to 15 per cent in 2016, while the private sector's investment appetite was cut. In the last medium-term programme, the national income will be $726 billion in 2016. But the national income was in 2008, so eight years ago it was 742 billion dollars, and now we're saying there's going to be a national income below the level of eight years ago. On the other hand, according to the latest Global Fortune Report published by Credit Suisse, the national wealth was calculated at $1 trillion 63 billion in 2016, while in 2007 it was $1 trillion,676 billion. In nine years, our national fortune has melted $600 billion. Cari is growing again, and despite the decline in growth, it continues to increase. The economy's been skating for a long time, and now it's obviously slipping back. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is very serious. If you do the right thing, you'll put out the fire with the least amount of damage in people's pockets, but look, last Friday, there was a meeting of the Economic Co-ordination Board at the Central Bank. Again they will intervene in the central bank. He said, "You cancelled the meeting yesterday morning." What you did was right, you turned around wrong, but then this morning, we found out that the canceled coordination meeting was taken to the palace tonight. It's not the right thing to do. Any action that gives the Central Bank an intervention image will devalue the bank's reputation, which will return to the nation as a higher interest bill. You put people through this in 2006, and after ten years, don't let it happen again. Let's face it, the current government is tired, it's run out of credibility, problems are rapidly getting heavy, people are in danger of losing their jobs, of not paying their debts, of losing their car license, of losing their property to banks. To stop this going on, to turn our economy away from this dangerous path, we must first remove politics from the day-to-day functioning of the economy and the shadow of political uncertainty from the country. We need to get rid of the old paradigms and put a whole new growth and division strategy in front of everyone. We need to remove the extraordinary state, presidential system, and referendum debates, as well as the dream of joining the recent Shanghai Co-operation, from the country's agenda immediately. In a national agreement, we must prepare a new economic programme that will give the nation and the economy the horizon. We need to quickly bring the country out of its extraordinaryness and return to the legal state, by putting the needs of the country and the nation ahead of all political interests and expectations, using the common mind in our country to create the mechanisms. This political seriousness and understanding must be shown, otherwise, I'm afraid the bill will get bigger, the vaccine of our nation will be smaller. He hereby states that we support the proposal, and once again, the General Assembly salutes and respects.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit03spe0052par0252	Thank you. Now, the second and final speaker against the proposal is Kayseri MP Ismail Tamer. Here you go, Mr. Tamer.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit03spe0053par0256	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the proposal of the National Movement Party to set up a research commission on the effects of the recent negatives in Turkey's economy on macroeconomic indicators, and I salute your grand delegation. First of all, congratulations on Teacher's Day, which will be celebrated tomorrow (November 24th). Turkey's economy is the 17th largest economy. Our goal is to bring this economy into the top 10 economies by 2023. The economic indicators we received in 2002, the 17th largest economy for today, then 16th, then 10th, have taken significant steps to go to the great economy, and the economy is still in this way. At a time when the world's economic indicators were destroyed in 2008, our then Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan will pass by. He said, "It's a real tangent." Today we see an average of 4% growth in the economy. When we look at world countries, if you put China, Brazil and India aside, there is economic growth now expressed by zero commas. The economy of Europe has been stable, as have other economies, Russia is about to collapse, and Turkey is a shining country with 4.4 per cent economic growth. Dear friends, research commissions can be made, they can be investigated, but the opposition also needs to see, in order to give the rights of Caesar. It needs to support the 4.4 percent growth rate. The dollars are rising. It's true, it's said that dollars are rising in Turkey as they are all over the world. There is a PKK problem our country is fighting outside of a major economic crisis. The PKK has been fighting for nearly 40 years. We don't throw roses at those mountains, we drop bombs, it costs money. You know, after the July 15 coup attempt by the low-life to divide this country, this economy may have been really affected. A war with Syria, about three months from now, directly within Syria... Turkey is at war; Iraq is at war, and Mosul is at war. There are great consequences to being a great country. So, economic indicators... Don't worry, I'm saying this country will come to its rightful place. I salute your high council. It means I'm against the National Movement Party, and I give you my regards, and I thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit03spe0054par0264	You can't be against the party, you'll be against the motion.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit03spe0055par0265	I think he meant the nationalist movement group's proposal. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit03spe0056par0269	We want roll call.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit03spe0055par0270	Members of parliament, the National Movement Party has a request for a roll call before voting on the group's proposal, and I will meet this request first. Mr. Gök, Mr. Altay, Mr. Kayşoglu, Mr. Ybey, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Sertel, Mr. Sertül, Mr. Yiğit, Mr. Emir, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Çaylak, Mr. Irgil, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Atici, Mr. Topal, Mr. Beseler, Mr. Bilgehan, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Göker. Yeah, I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0055par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of Turkey's 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly. Before the nationalist Action Group's proposal was voted, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code: I shall have it read and processed and put it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Wednesday (23/11/2016), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. [[Diyarbakır]] On 23 November 2016, Mus MP Mr. Burcu Çelik Özkan and his friends suggested that the parliamentary investigation motion, which had been submitted to the Turkish Parliament for a comprehensive investigation of rights violations that reached a significant extent in the 3218 rows of prisons, should be read in the same session Wednesday (23/11/2016), and that the meeting be held in the same date. In favour of the proposal, the first statement belongs to Mardin MP Mithat Sancar. Here you go, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0057par0025	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers -- it seems the government loves the state of emergency, doesn't seem to want to give up this order, enjoys the pleasure of power and wants to continue it. Prisons are at the beginning of the most devastating reflections of the state of emergency. It's not even right to talk about prisons anymore. Prisons were turned into a concentration camp. In fact, even though the declared state is called the extraordinary state, the actual response is an exception. Even if the state of the exception and the state of emergency are used in equitable terms, there is a difference in historical times, and very briefly, the main feature of the exception is that it is continuous and systematic, not temporary and manageable. About what? About stopping the law. Raising executive or power's powers may be a feature of the state of emergency, but the exception is to completely disable the law. Therefore, the zero degree of law is the exception, the culmination of persecution, the zero state of law.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0058par0027	President...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0059par0028	Mr. Sancar, just a moment... Congressmans, there's a serious hum in the hall, please... the preacher's on the stand, so let's not interrupt him. Here you go, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0060par0031	Thank you, Mr. President. So, who came up with the theory of this exception, in what period did humanity live in the most comprehensive way in practice, and let me make it very brief: the theory of the exception was created by the Nazis' ideologists. We always say that the Nazi era should be wary of being compared to other times, it's true. But there are times when it is sometimes impossible to make it clear without reminiscing about the characteristics of this administration, without comparing it to it. Taking the law completely aside, stopping the law was the Nazi administration's primary goal. He needed it to establish his power. There was a purpose to stop the law, allegedly building a new law. So they didn't want any rules, no controls, to connect their feet to a new arrangement. Well, they succeeded in that. They've set up concentration camps, they've made every kind of torture, every kind of torture a management practice. Mr. President, I don't think anyone's listening to you! They're not listening to me or... if you'll just give me one more warning.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0061par0034	It doesn't matter if they listen to you or not. We grew a beard in case they'd listen, but...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0060par0035	I mean, in front of the band...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0061par0036	Congressmans, please, silence.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0060par0037	And then the genocide came, and the war came, because a government that built such an arbitrary government, a government that enjoyed its taste, is almost like a dialectic law, and the Nazi government was able to fight the worst war of history for humanity, after committing crimes against humanity. For some time now, the government has ruled the country with decrees under the law, and the law has no measure of the universal principles of law, no measure of conscience, no measure of mercy, let alone the small measures of the universal principles of law. For example, let me remind you of one of those who were terminated by the decree issued yesterday, the mother of Ugur Kaymaz. I don't know if any of you don't remember Uður Kaymaz, but you should know very well that some of you have written your book, and one of you has not heard a word from him. Makbule Kaymaz is the mother of the child who was killed in Kızıltepe with 13 bullets. He worked in the municipality, while his son's murderers -- also his husband -- were killed -- were not punished, so he was dismissed today by the decree of a state of emergency. For example, in 2000, the Ministry of Family and Social Security, who lost her arm in the so-called return to life operation, was terminated yesterday when she worked there. Of course, there are thousands, tens of thousands of people that we can count. Why is this government doing this? Why would he do that? What does Makbule want with Kaymaz, and what does he want with Veli Sakım? In order to avoid what coup threat, what does Makbule Kaymaz want as a mother whose child and wife were murdered and his murderers were not punished? He wants to cut off his bread. Look, guys, I said it's an adjective, but what we know better is, let me use a name from history: It's called the order of kerbala. It's the name of a government mentality that puts its mind to cut off even its water, to leave it without water. It's the mindset of Yazeed. He works there like a mind that leaves people without water to punish, and leaves them without water in the midst of the desert, under the sun of Kerbala. But there was a mighty man before Jezeith; and there was Imam Hussein. He was alone, he didn't bow, he didn't bow, he didn't bow, he resisted, and he was beheaded, but he never bowed, he was shot in the neck, he didn't bow. The worst fear of Yazeit are the Imam Husseins. The greatest fear of the wrongdoers is that they will have someone to stand up to. On November 4th, an operation was carried out to lower the voice of those who resisted. This was a real coup operation. Co-chairs of a party, MPs, were taken into custody in the middle of the night for reasons which were impossible to explain, even by you. One of you, for God's sake, look at these files, read what's in those files, and then put your hand on your conscience. This is a coup d'etat, a coup d'état to establish Kerbala law. What did Ahmet want with Turk? Yesterday my friends told me what it was like to take Ahmet Turk into custody. So someone doesn't want to hear the voices of those who want peace, who insist on democratic politics, and who insist on it. What does he want? More war, more persecution, but persecution has an end. I reminded you here months ago. Bismarck, one of the most famous commanders with guns, said that he had achieved many successes with his sword and bayonet, but he warned mankind that you could do anything but not sit on it. Anyone who wants to try sitting on a bayonet. Ahmet Türk has been in custody for three days. Friends, what is the alleged crime? Can't the D.A. take an hour to depose him? Why is there a law-enforcement ban for five days? Our staff, five consultants, including my assistant, have been in custody for thirteen days. The police interrogation is over. The accused crimes: No, sir, you threw away this fucking tweet. Why did you throw it away? Sir, you sang in there. Why did you say that? Is it 14 days of detention for them? If you mean Reva, there's nothing to say to you. I don't want to give up on the AK PARTY group. I want to believe there are people here with a conscience. I want to keep that faith. Objection. Not when it happens to you, but when it happens to others. It's a request from the entire House, and I've asked the entire House, but I know that there are people in this House -- let's not count the names of parties -- who rebel against them, who constantly speak out against them. The real responsibility is for you ruling party MPs, who are in power by your vote, and who have been encouraged by your vote. I wish you wouldn't go too far on the day when you're going to show that kind of conscientious behavior. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0062par0047	Thank you. The first word against the proposal...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0063par0049	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0062par0050	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0063par0051	Mr. President, in his speech just now, the word "Yazit mentality" was clearly taunting those who resisted on November 4th by holding the AK PARTI power, lawmakers responsible. I demand a word in accordance with the Civil Code 69, under the obligation to answer. There's no bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0064par0053	If they consider themselves Yazit, they can answer.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0065par0054	Mr. Incescuz, please, without a new taunt... Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I promise you for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0066par0060	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers must serve the nation with the authority of those chosen within 780,000 square miles of the land, if they want to see Yazit's mentality, first of all, that I have refused to speak with the mind of Yazit, and the thought of the previous conversation. If they wanted to see Yazeed mentality, it was necessary for those who were in charge of serving there not to set traps, not to set bombs, not to point a gun in that 780,000km piece of land, not to engage in acts of terrorism. The General Assembly of the State has been slaughtering here for a long time, and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so How did we get here? If you are the spokesman for terrorism when it is necessary for the people to serve the nation, to return to the nation by the vote of the nation; if you say that in May and earlier by your declaration, the impositions will be lifted. If you say that the process has come here, with examples of Kerbela from the past period, the government is making the government, the government, the government (Kathtliam) with false, insecurities, interrogations, such as... For those of you who have been slaughtered like Yasin Bör, before you raise your voice against terror in the fight against terror that we martyr every day, return and answer to the nation. Those who can't do that, we reject power, the ruling party, the MPs with such strong accusations. You're breaking up. Of course you're wrong about that. You're not gonna go back and say a word about this in a time when we've been fighting so much terrorism, and then you're gonna come back here and you're gonna say all these fancy words... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You're gonna try to cover this up, and we're gonna keep it quiet.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0067par0065	Pennsylvania...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0066par0066	There's no way we can keep quiet. Judgement will do its job.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0068par0068	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0069par0069	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0068par0070	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0069par0071	Mr. President, the group's vice president testified in his speech that we used false, useless expressions in our conversation.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0070par0072	I said "unregistered." Tell me the truth.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0069par0073	It's a heavy taunt, and we demand a say.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0071par0074	Here, I'll give you two minutes. Mr. Sancar, please. Please, before you dare to pick on me again.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0072par0077	Mr. Group Vice President knows very well how to get here.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0073par0078	You know that.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0072par0079	It's been told many times, there are reports, there are government reports. In April 2015, the weapons were to be left in full and final, but no one has ever explained who knocked down Dolmabahçe. None of the photographers in Dolmabahçe on that day were on the ministry's bench today, but they were all purged. The question is, why?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0073par0080	They're here.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0072par0081	It's not, you know. Secondly, this party has said that it has systematically and definitively rejected violence everywhere. June 7th, June 8th...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0074par0083	Who were those who terrorized your back? Were they not your co-chairs who called the PYD the YPG?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0072par0084	Watch your side. You're raising hell, you're calling it a terrorist organization, you're looking at those who swear with you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0074par0085	You will not lean on terror. If you're going to be the voice of the people.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0072par0086	Look for those who swear with you, question them. See those who stand hand-to-hand with the leader of what you call the bloodiest terrorist organization in history.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0074par0087	You're gonna put your backs to the people.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0075par0088	Let's not interfere, fellas. Don't interfere, lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0072par0089	Look, they dropped bombs on us as they entered the June 7th election, attacking our election offices. We did not respond, and We called for peace. Why? There's only one reason for these operations. There's only one reason for these operations because they've shaken your power, HDP. This is a revenge operation. There's no way anyone could cover up a revenge operation with terror charges like that.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0074par0090	You put your hand on your conscience, they're not terrors. If you have a conscience.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0072par0091	On June 7th, that power was reduced, and there was a President who didn't know the consequences of that election, and there was a government, there was a party. THE BURGE (Istanbul-) who doesn't know terror... No, there was no terror, then the process was still going on. THE BURGE (Istanbul-) who doesn't know terror... You didn't nullify the results of the election using terror and threat as blackmail on the people. You need to look in the mirror when you make the definition of a terrorist.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0076par0097	So who shot the sleeping cop in the back of the neck after June 7th?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0077par0098	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0078par0099	Sir, is there any need to make a statement?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0079par0100	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0077par0101	Still, what you said...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0078par0102	He has accused us of unjust and unjustified acts of revenge... which involve bullying from head to toe. I have a responsibility to answer.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0077par0103	Go ahead, go ahead, I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0080par0105	And then there's that photo.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0078par0107	Mr. President, we all know that we all have very vivid memories. Shortly after the June 7th elections happened, you know, there were some calls -- I won't mention their names -- a process here called the war of the revolutionary peoples -- where they started out as a wannabe in the holiday weather, digging trenches -- how we came to this process -- on July 20, July 22nd, 22nd, when two of our police were slaughtered from behind the necks of sleepers.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0081par0109	Those who reject the motion to investigate can't say that. Tell whoever rejected the motion to investigate.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0082par0110	Don't interfere, Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0078par0111	...then a father was murdered by a terrorist organization in front of his wife and son. After that, you won't blush, you'll come and look 79 million people in the eye and you'll say:
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0083par0112	Ask Pennsylvania.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0078par0113	Woe to those who tell the truth by perverting the truth on this stand, on the stand of the nation! Shame on those who can't speak of terror! Shame on the government, the government, right, local, who twisted the process in the fight against terrorism at this point, sorry!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0084par0114	Who runs the country? Then untie it. Solve it.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0078par0115	Look, in the events of October 6-7 -- you're going to talk a little bit more later -- in 2014, the people who called the public to the street, the people who let 52 more of our citizens be slaughtered there, the call to that street...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0085par0116	Do you know those 52 citizens are HDP? They are members of the HDP.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0078par0117	Another says that in attacks by the people, political institutions, NGOs, occupational organisations, structures should develop their own security measures. Is it possible for the government to allow such a thing? Anyone who tries to break this order, anyone who speaks for terrorist organization activities here, of course, Turkey is not a tent state...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0086par0118	You're not doing it, you're doing it.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0078par0119	...has to ensure the peace, security of the 79 million, and the fight against terrorism, the right fight, the right leg of justice, where our soldiers, our police, our citizens, our nation will continue to stand firm against terrorism.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0086par0121	Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0087par0122	Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0086par0123	So he's made a lot of accusations that we don't speak the truth from the people's stand, that we say different things from the people's stand, and that we have a say in the group's chair.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0087par0124	Yes, Mr. Ironel. I'll give you two minutes. From now on, we're gonna do it like this, it looks like. Please, let's not challenge a new taunt.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0088par0129	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, a man should really think things through when he's saying something. First look at your own practice. The whole of Turkey knows very clearly how you stand in front of what you call a terrorist organization. So you're the one who called yourself a terrorist organization, and you're the one who's standing in front of your hand. You're the ones who prepared them for the coup attempt in this country. You're the ones who drove this country into chaos, into crisis. You're the ones in this country who took the elected co-chairs of the nation with no shame, no boredom, no law. We made them... in 2009. You said, "Who will you throw them on the day after tomorrow?"
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0089par0131	You've been in partnership with the PKK for 40 years. Do you realize that? You've been partners for 40 years.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0088par0132	There is a process with the AKP government and the state's organisation. Here you are, our co-chairs, our deputies, our co-chairs, who are holding them all hostage right now, sending them to different prisons in a hurry. You'll all have to pay for these things one day, and you'll have to pay for them. We're not afraid of anything. A year ago, two years ago. Yeah, we thought we'd investigate the Ceylanpınar case, and you turned down our research proposal. Whatever we said, you refused our investigation. We thought we'd look into the October 6th, 7th events, set up a research commission, and you refused, because you did it all. Why isn't lawmakers' relationship with the community at the moment with the ByLock or the whole thing being explained, the political foot? 'Cause it's gonna come out like a sock rip, starting here and all the way up to the top, it's gonna be out in the open. So hold on to the mirror first. Don't be shy and try to inform the people here with false information. The public in Turkey knows all this. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0090par0136	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0091par0137	Okay, this time he'll explain the photo!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0092par0138	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0090par0139	Mr. President, I mean, in a personal sense and in a general sense, I want to speak according to 69.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0091par0140	We want it personally, so explain that photo.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0092par0141	Here, I'll give you two minutes. Let's get this over with, but please, let's end these polemics, let's not afford any more bullying.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0093par0144	Now, of course, politically, I've never done this: when I tell the truth anywhere, it hurts the other side. There's no such thing as personal bullying. Look, I'm not gonna say a word about what you're asking, and no one's ever heard a sentence from me.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0094par0146	You can't. What are you going to do? There's no sentence to be said.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0095par0147	There's nothing to say.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0093par0148	Why didn't he hear? 'Cause I'd consider anything you say about it to be an outrage.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0094par0149	Well, well, well! Why didn't you say something when you were standing in the main position?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0093par0150	I'm honored to be the son of a patriot, a national, a native, a mother and father who's extremely sensitive to protecting their homeland. And for him, I'd like to make a personal statement about it.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0096par0152	How emotional, how pathetic!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0093par0153	I've told my friends, at the time, if any of this organization had been known to be part of the gang in any way, would it have happened? Never.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0097par0154	Then why did you leave? Why were you leaving?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0098par0155	We knew then, you didn't.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0097par0156	You went to get a statement?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0099par0157	Until the outbreak of December 17th and 25th events, there was no sign of that until there was a parallel structure within the state. You need to know that you can't hurt us in any way by saying things like that in the past.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0098par0158	We knew, we were warning you, you weren't listening. You never listened. Now you're not listening, we're warning you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0100par0159	We've always told you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0101par0160	Congressmans, I beg you, please...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0102par0161	Of course you will, because when you're told the truth, it hurts you, it hurts you, it hurts you, it hurts you. You'll hear more of these facts.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0103par0162	The facts are clear. Why did you cover your head?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0104par0163	You forgot to tell the truth, you have a world of lies.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0102par0164	Look, you're going to get hurt, especially from this: yes, this righteous, legitimate struggle with terrorist organizations will last until the end.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0103par0165	Then fight yourselves.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0104par0166	Clean yourselves up first.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0103par0167	Clean yourselves up first, start with yourself.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0105par0168	Look, it's much clearer up close. In fighting the PKK for 40 years, if we look at the martyrs of this country, when we look at the massacre of our civilian citizens by the PKK, we need to look at codes from 17 December to 25 December to 15 July in our recent history.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0103par0169	You're responsible for July 15th. This wouldn't have happened if you hadn't gone there.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0105par0170	So these terrorist organizations served the same purpose. That's why today the struggle with ▪ is hurting you so much.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit04spe0106par0172	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0106par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The first word against the People's Democratic Party's group proposal belongs to İstanbul MP Haydar Ali Yıldız. Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0107par0008	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group against the People's Democratic Party's proposals to open a parliamentary investigation into the alleged violations of rights in prisons. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. Tomorrow is Teacher's Day. I wish all our teachers to have a good life, and I celebrate Teachers' Day, and I cherish all our teachers who come to eternity. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we are members of a great civilization. In our faith, man is a man, and man is a man of honour. AS AK PARTY, from the first day we were founded, let the human being live so that the state can live. With his understanding until now -- we accepted this understanding as the center of our politics -- we first put man, human honor above everything, we accepted the basis of everything. For us, it's human dignity that's the basis of our politics. It's up to the politician, to the congressman, to protect the honor of the people he represents, to protect his honor and to protect his glory. The Republic of Turkey is a constitutional law state that recognizes the rule of law. According to the Constitution, in the section of Basic Rights and Homework, everyone has basic rights and freedoms that are bound to their personality, untouchable, non-transmittable. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have continued their uncompromising practice in this sense, with no tolerance for torture and abuse. AK PARTY has lifted the statute of limitations on torture and abuse. Article 17 of the Constitution shall regulate the ban on torture. According to this, no one can be tortured or tortured; no one can be subjected to punishment or treatment that is incompatible with human dignity. Likewise, the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms of the Constitution in this sense is constitutionally guaranteed in this respect, and anyone who is violated by the Constitution and its recognised rights and freedoms has the right to ask the authorities for the opportunity to apply without delay. Again, in terms of torture zero tolerances during the AK PARTI period, our punishments and detentions and execution institutions are inspected in five main topics: 1) Executive audit, 2) Judicial audit, 3) Civil society control, 4) Parliamentary audit, 5) International audit. In other words, our detention and detention facilities in Turkey are the Committee for the Protection of the Torture of Europe (CPT), the United Nations Committee for the Protection of Torture (SPT), the Human Rights and Equality Agency of Turkey, the Civil Rights and Equality Agency of Turkey, the independent monitoring boards established by Law 4681, the Turkish Parliament's Human Rights Review Commission, the county and district human rights boards boards, the district and district prosecutors... the allegations of tortures and tortures in our prisons and prisons established by the Ministry of Justice in this way. Limits, restrictions, as stated in the Constitution, can only be arranged by law, and can only be done by law. In this sense, it's impossible to talk about a pleasure in our prisons; we can talk about a law-abiding, controlled practice. Therefore, the judicial arrests, detentions, arrests are on the agenda with the decisions of the independent judiciary. Therefore, as alleged here, there is absolutely no need to talk about severe human rights violations, violations of human dignity, practices. These allegations are abstract, subjective claims, which do not reflect the truth and have no legal basis. Here we say to those who have this motion: If so, there is a tip line set up at the Ministry of Justice, which has been subjected to torture and abuse in this prison. I'd like to share with you that there's a unit of people here who are responsible for the torture and abuse of anyone who's been subjected to these reports. In prisons, allegations of battery, insults, threats, abuse -- in this sense, preventing lawyers from speaking -- are certainly unrealistic. According to the decree issued in Article 29779 of the State of Emergency, dated 23/7/2016, who will visit them on the telephone, as well as their talks were carried out in accordance with the ordinance of the law. Regarding the arrest of MPs and the arrest of their co-chairs, the Parliament has decided to remove the immunity of lawmakers with their files on the judiciary, on one occasion. Therefore, the individuals mentioned in these files have no parliamentary immunity, whose immunity has been removed by Parliament as part of the cases they have been tried. At the moment, in accordance with the principle of equality in front of the law, their trial, arrests, and detention continue in the same way within the framework of crime and punishment. Of course, before they went to prison, those who committed these crimes had to think carefully before putting the people on the street. Those who supported barricades, pits, ditchs with their political rhetoric should have taken into account, of course, the consequences. Eden will find it. So, he's going to make a judgment decision on these MPs, before, after, as part of the case. We're not going to rule on whether they're guilty or not, but as alleged, the claim of obstruction of phone calls or contact with their families is certainly not true. I'm going to share with you the information that they've had a lawyer's opinion for three hundred and eighty-four hours and fifty minutes, 421 times. In the same way, Selahattin Demirtaş is alone in a room of 3 people, 71 times interviewed by his attorneys; I would like to share with you that he has been meeting with his wife and brother for a hundred and seven hours and forty-five minutes, and that he has had a closed conversation.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0108par0023	Is that a blessing?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0107par0024	In the same way, I would like to share with you that from the moment Figen Yüksekdağ was arrested, he had 54 meetings with his attorneys, 35 hours and 50 minutes with his wife, after being admitted to the institution.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0108par0025	Is that a blessing?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0107par0026	In the same way, I'd like to share with you that phone calls have been made during the time appointed by law enforcement. Therefore, your claims are unrealistic. There's no legal basis. Restrictions are held entirely according to legal legislation. We're in a state of emergency from July 15th. But those who object to the extraordinary state practices in Turkey should look to Belgium, France, first. Although there is an extraordinary state in Turkey, there is nothing unusual about it; everyone is going to work, they are able to do their job, Parliament is working, all the institutions of the state are standing and serving their nation. In Europe you can see panzers, tanks, military vehicles in Belgium and France. Why do those who object to these practices in Turkey, who complain about international platforms at every turn, Europe, the international system, Turkey, have no objection to these antidemocratic practices?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0109par0029	How many people were arrested? How many men did they take?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0107par0030	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Mr. President, if we all stick together, we can get through these difficult times together. States have difficult times, prosperous times. We're going through a rough time. Instead of denigrating Turkey at every opportunity, starting on July 15th, we must all protect our faith that Turkey will become Turkey, that Turkey will become Turkey, that Turkey will become Turkey at every turn. I believe that the great and new Turkey, a more democratic, freer Turkey, will build this Parliament with its laws. We are responsible for carrying our great civilization, its values and democratic values, above the world standards, into the future. With that understanding, I salute you with love. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0110par0033	Thank you, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0111par0034	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0110par0035	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0111par0036	Now, in his speech, the speaker said that the allegations in our research proposal were absolutely untrue. At the same time, because they were digging barricades and ditchs, he expressed claims that they had entered prisons, and he was taunting us about a lot of things like this, about our group, about our research proposal. That's why the Civil Code 69...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0110par0037	Mr. Ironel, I will, but I'd like to remind you of something. Congressmans, I say the same thing to all groups. Look, another group isn't going to say "right." We're criticizing each other.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0111par0039	He can.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0110par0040	He can, not every group has to sign under everything they're told.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0111par0041	But the lie is wrong. It can't say.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0110par0042	Now, look, I said I'd give it to you. I have a statement or two to make a clear reminder. The 69th article of the Civil Charter, which regulates the right to explain, is very clear, friends: the government, the commission, the political party group, or lawmakers, who have a different view than the one that has been taunted or proposed to the witness, can make a statement and answer.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0111par0044	It's not like that.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0110par0045	But he agrees with your argument, disagrees, which is not grounds for bullying. Please, I beg you, for a more productive work environment, let's not take too much advantage of this bullying.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0111par0046	Mr. President, it's okay...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0110par0047	I'm still going to give you my word that I'm going to honor your other views -- Mr. State Beştaş -- I think he's going to talk -- that I'm going to make a commitment to not picking on you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0111par0048	Mr. President, I'd like to point out that the Civil Code is clear in these cases, but if there's any indication that we're using our statements incorrectly, it's a taunt, it needs to be corrected.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0110par0049	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0111par0050	Of course there will be criticism, of course there will be issues that he disagrees with, but it's not entirely right for you to explain from there, because the Civil Charter is already open.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0110par0051	Look, it's in the Civil Code...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0111par0052	The Civil Code is open, and in accordance with the Civil Code, we, too, demand a say in the matter of bullying, using our right to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0110par0053	Mr. Demirel, you may make a request, but the Civil Code 69...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0111par0054	It's very clear.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0110par0055	...gives the President his authority.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0111par0056	Okay, but the president...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0110par0057	He doesn't say he will, he says he can.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0111par0058	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0110par0059	It's an evaluation, an appreciation, a decision-making authority, and it's here, the Presidential Court, the President, the President, who runs it.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0111par0060	But the president can comment on that. He doesn't say that.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0110par0061	My plea is that I said I'd give it to you in the first place, but I'm just saying, with the current tides in mind, let's avoid picking on each issue in order to provide an efficient working environment, so that we can avoid picking on each subject as well.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0112par0062	I hope you'll explain the same to other friends.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0110par0063	I've said it in the beginning, I promise you, because of the bullying. Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş, I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not put up with any more bullying, and I'm not just saying this for you, I'm saying this on behalf of the whole group.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0113par0066	But it only applies to us, Mayor.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0110par0067	I'm singing for everyone. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0114par0071	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Speaker, are not all about the groups that the Deputy Speaker has said, but only about the AKP Group. Because, by taking sides, by adding his own interpretation, he is trying to prevent almost MPs from accepting propaganda based on deception, lying, and revealing the truth of false statements. It's not acceptable.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0110par0072	Do other groups have to accept what you say?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0114par0073	Mr. President, I mean, the speaker actually said things from the stand so that almost everyone in Turkey would say, "Let's go to prison, let's take a rest." But none of this is relevant to the truth. We didn't make this motion just for our co-chairs and deputies. Currently, there is a bleeding wound in prisons in Turkey, and it is increasing day by day. After July 15th alone, please investigate the suicides in prison, especially to the ruling party group. If the prisons are so beautiful, if the roses are so bright, why do people commit suicide? Look into it. There's a call line, you say. As lawmakers, we can't meet in prison for over a year after June 7th, before November 1st. The Department of Justice, in a arbitrary way, prevents us from going to prisons. So let it all go, there's no response to our motion to question the prisons, no verbal or written question motions. Our applications aren't being answered. Also, they would have thought before they called the people to the street, and they would have done so. I would really like to return to you. You're the ones who called the public out on the street and got them killed the most.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0115par0076	You must have forgotten October 6th, 7th.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0114par0077	You've wrapped your tongue around the events of October 6th, 7th. 52 of the people who died in the 6-7 October incident were HDP members, executives, and you did not want to leave this propaganda vehicle behind by preventing research. Tell these facts to the public, and right now, you've told our MPs, and I'm answering: why are our MPs in a one-man cell? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Demirtaş's own attorney, Levent Pişkin, has been taken into custody for having made an interview. There's so much more to say, I'm afraid we can't share it because there's no time.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0116par0082	Thank you. The second statement in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is from Ankara MP Senal Sarıhan. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yes, sir, you've come to the stand in great humility. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0117par0091	Mr. President, my dear fellow clerks, dear fellow writers and dear congresswoman friends, now, as I walk down here, I thought I'd start with a sentence that wasn't really on my mind, and that came into my mind. You know, when forensic prisoners get out of prison, when they're released, they take the glass cups they use and break them at the door, it's a tradition; they break the glass once more so they don't go to jail. Now, times have changed, I don't know, different from when I was in prisons, because cups are either plastic or paper, so it can't be broken anymore, so people often have to go back to prisons again. I've got to start with some good news after those tense arguments earlier. The good news is that two of our friends, two of our dear friends in prison, Aslı Erdogan and Necmiye Albay, were released.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0118par0095	No.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0119par0096	No, no.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0117par0097	Oh, yeah?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0120par0098	No, there was no release. They arrested them for terrorism, they're still under arrest for another case.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0121par0099	Release of this crime, proceed with the other crime.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0122par0100	They're still under arrest for other crimes.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0123par0101	Since they have files for another crime...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0124par0102	Okay. Well, I hope we get this news tomorrow.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0125par0104	I hope so.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0126par0105	It's hard, it's hard, it's hard...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0124par0106	That's hard, too.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0127par0107	There's an eviction order in this case, but there's another case... That means his files are being processed.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0128par0108	You can correct him if you want, from the transcripts.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0124par0109	All right, I'll fix it. This is unconfirmed news, so I'll correct it. There's an echo like this, and I hope he gets it. My dear friends, you know, there's a book called the Birth of Prison by Foucault. He's one of the most important specialists in prison. Do not suppose that the history of the prison is described in that book; the history of the prison is not narrated; rather, what powers do they have, what sticks do they have, what feet do they have in power, and what feet do they have in power, and that is explained. Now, let me remind you right away, Foucault says that the society that created modern society - prisons - reflects itself in prisons, schools, barracks, and operations. This phrase, today, I think it's much more dominant than yesterday. My friends talked, my political party rep friends expressed their thoughts. Prison has always been a problem for Turkey's Grand National Assembly, as well as Turkey. There's a bleeding wound there. There was pollution in the former conditions of our prisons, and there was unhealthyness due to that pollution. These have been greatly improved, there are no more very dirty prisons, which we call dirty, so there are no more prisons where rats walk under your feet, where rats come on to your food, or where insects come from, but there are no more prisons. Once again, the word of Foucault is a criminal evil. If you put the nightingale in a golden cage, it will say that it is freeness; and in prison, man will miss a bagel outside; he will miss eating a bagel, and he will miss hearing the sound of a bagel maker outside, and he will miss hearing the sound of a bagel maker outside, and he will also want to embrace his own children. Now, I'm sure our 10 HDP MP friends miss being on these platforms, and I'm sure two of our authors, whose name I just mentioned, miss sitting at the head of their own computer. What have we done today, especially after the declaration of the State of Emergency, dear friends, or what has the State of Emergency brought before us? Now I'm going to give you a number, perhaps many of you know: After the State of Emergency, the number of people arrested within the scope of the State of Emergency today is 36,951. 36,951 people were arrested after the declaration of the State of Emergency. Arrests are a precaution, and all my fellow lawyers know, you know, you're enlightened people. Now, what do we do by putting almost 37,000 people in prison? What is it that we do? Isn't freedom the main thing? I'd like to quote Foucault to you again, it says: "The asylum and prison have become a stick of power. " So is the Middle Ages, and so is the present. Why do we need this bat? Because we still can't create a democratic environment, we can't create democratic conditions, we don't create an environment where people can express themselves freely, exist freely in any area of political organization, and we try to keep pressing them, handcuffing them, putting them in permanent prison, trying to get people to be taught through punishment. But how do we always say that the State of Emergency is overcome by democracy, and the crime rate of humans is overcome by the education and freedom you give them? I'm afraid we can't do that. Again, I would like to share a statement from Foucault, who says: "It is a powerful war; it is an undeclared war with other vehicles. What is the State of Emergency?" The State of Emergency is a further increase in power's legal resources, a little more than that of war vehicles on this battlefield. Again, I'm going to say one last word from Foucault, and it says: "Erdem is our responsibilities to ourselves, not against society. I give you the attention of my friends from the AKP, our responsibilities to ourselves, not against society. Of course, there is a process in which the individual is first alone with his own conscience, and this process is very important. It's very important that we can look at ourselves in the mirror and see that we're not blushing, that we're not ashamed. Just now, my friend the AKP MP, would you present us some examples? Tell me something concrete about the evils in the prison. Here, I'm telling you guys, the Human Rights Association report. One name at a time, who were tortured, who were abused in prison. The report of the Human Rights Association on rights violations in Gaziantep Type L Prison: they went with our friends, studied them, how the 93 prisoners who were transferred to Gaziantep because of the State of Emergency were searched naked, how the patients were beaten first-hand, despite moving from prison to prison. Another report. This report is related to Şırnak T Type -- special security -- Closed Prison. He's counting the patients; he's got schizophrenia. My fellow lawyers know that schizophrenics don't have criminal licenses in any way. What is the gain that is expected to be left in prison? Dear friends, there are others. Very soon, our Veli friend visited the prison, and he met with Ali Bulac, and it appeared in the press, and you read about it. Ali Bulaç says that most of you, friends of the AKP, were brought up with me. You may know whether this arrest is justified or not. It calls to you, to our friends from the AKP. We know each other as well as you know me, or as I know you, we know what it means to be a member of a terrorist organization, we know what it means to be a member of a terrorist organization, we know as well as to be an individual. Now, these are also in our friend Veli's press report, and I just spoke to him, and 127 writers are currently in prison. I'm not wrong, am I?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0129par0122	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0124par0123	The books they write are forbidden to them, my friends. Can you talk about such a ban? Now, he was taken to Demirtaş all the way to Edirne. I don't know where the family is either in Ankara or Diyarbakır.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0130par0125	In Diyarbakır.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0124par0126	Of course, they're fine, they can go from place to place, but there are hundreds of defendants whose mother is in Van. She's in Edirne. Those people don't have money in their pockets to go and visit, and punishment, security measures, not our law, not our internal law, not international standards, not minimum standards. If we go back from law enforcement, we're gonna be lawless, and one day we're gonna be under it. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0131par0130	Thank you. Second and final speaker, Giresun MP Sabri Ozturk, against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0132par0134	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Democratic Party of Peoples' People's Group proposal. I salute the High Council. HDP group proposal has a request to investigate rights violations in prisons. As it is known, the rights of prisoners and prisoners in prison during the AK PARTI period, the physical conditions of the prisons they were in, the opportunities for prisoners and prisoners in this regard have been greatly improved. In our country, the policy of zero tolerance for torture has been accepted. In this scope, fundamental changes have been made in our legislation to prevent torture, to eliminate allegations of this nature, to prevent cases of abuse against individuals, to create control and judicial mechanisms in this direction. Laws on the execution of sentences are implemented in all penal institutions, regardless of race, language, religion, religion, nationality, color, gender, philosophical belief, opinion or political opinion. The laws on the implementation of Criminal and Security measures No. 5275 on prisoners and prisoners in criminal execution institutions have been carried out in accordance with the regulations, regulations and regulations. The institutional administration of convicted and imprisoned persons has the right to complain and object to all actions and procedures against them. They can be used directly by their relatives or by NGOs, as well as by their own hands. The relevant republic's attorney general's office for applications meets the required judicial, administrative procedures. Criminal execution institutions are open to national and international control to prevent torture and abuse. There are institutions, institutions that make the necessary audits, such as the Committee for the Protection of Torture, Torture, and Humiliation of the United Nations. Here are regular, unannounced audits by these national and international control mechanisms. In recent years, claims about human rights violations have been reduced by these audits, which have been denied. If so, a claim is carefully followed by the Ministry of Justice and the relevant boards, and it is carried out by law. The operations and procedures of all criminal executions are subject to inspection. In this framework, audits are made by Justice Department inspectors, judges and controllers of the General Directorate of Criminal and Inquisitorships. Again, under judicial supervision, execution judges examine the execution of the sentence or complaints about living conditions in the institution. Under the supervision of NGOs, there are detention institutions and detention committees under Law 4681. These boards go to the institution every two months to inspect it, submit their reports to the republic's chief prosecutors, the Justice Department, the Turkish Parliament's Human Rights Commission. Under the supervision of NGOs, according to Law 6701, Turkey can visit and control human rights and equality institution prisons. Again, under Parliamentary supervision, the chairman of the Turkish Parliament's Human Rights Review or Research Commission and its members can visit criminal execution institutions and conduct the necessary research and inspections. As a result, during the AK PARTY administrations, the conditions of prisoners and prisoners in both prisons and prisons have been improved much better, both legally and physically. If there are claims of a violation of rights, they are controlled by the current institution and by the rules. Of course, prisoners and prisoners have rights, but in the end, punishment is being executed in prison. This conviction does not give any prisoner the right to live like a king. In particular, the demand for the use of terrorist organisations' prisons, such as the educational base, is never acceptable. In particular, no matter what terrorist organization there is after the July 15th process, our fight as a government, as a state, as a nation, as all political parties, will continue with determination against the elements that support all kinds of terrorism and terrorists, such as the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Of course, we have a very busy agenda. There's a lot to be said about this, but we don't want to waste too much of the House's time on the National Education Ministry's Agency's Law and a regulation on other laws. So I'm going to end my words here -- our nation expects service from the House. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0133par0146	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0134par0147	Mr. President, I have a request for my position.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0133par0148	Here you are, Mr. Ironel. You're in the system. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0134par0152	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, some statements have been made regarding the state of the prisons here. We could do dozens, hundreds of rights violations, dozens, hundreds of examples from here. I mean, right now, he's, uh, he's, uh, he's, uh, he's, uh, he's talking, uh, he's not looking at any of the new KHKs, I think. All prison monitoring boards are now terminated by law enforcement decrees. That's why we've been told that information from prisons is not considered in any way. We have dozens of examples here, hundreds of examples. For example, the patient who remains in the Van Type F Prison, the Messenger Özbey, remains in solitary confinement and is tortured. I mean, there are tortures in many places, in many prisons. Just today, word came in that 52 people from Edirne Type F Prison were exiled without their knowledge. I mean, these exiles, they were told to be sent elsewhere. I'll finish with one example. We always call him Edirne, of the righteous. Abdullah Zaydan is our deputy Hakari, and his family is staying in Hakkari. Right now, he's in solitary confinement with Edirne F type. Even that actually reveals what the state of the prisons is. Right now, our lawmakers, the situation in our co-chairs' prisons, is a complete isolation, and to eliminate this isolation, I would like to say once again that a certain commission has to be set up, and they need to be investigated one by one. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0135par0155	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. People's Democratic Party...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0136par0162	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0135par0163	Yes, the People's Democratic Party has a request for a roll call before voting on the group proposal. We'll do it first. Mr. Agbaba, Mr. Bektaşoğlu, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. İrgil, Mr. Green, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Engin, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Kayan, Mr. Sarıbal, Mr. Tur Yıldız Bicer, Mr. Yfriend, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Gündoğdu. Yeah, I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. Lawmakers who give compasses must not leave the hall, the need may be necessary. [[Checked with electronic device]] Mr. Haroun Karaca? Here. Mr. Bashir Atalay? Here. Mr. Serkan Bayram, Erzincan? No. Mr. Halis Dalkilic? No. Mr. Nureddin Nebati? Here. Mr. Bennur Karaburun? Here. Mr. Orhan Miroglu? Here. Mr. Fatma Benli? Here. There's enough for a meeting. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and vote on: Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Wednesday (23/11/2016), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 23/11/2016, Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba and his friends proposed a parliamentary survey of Turkey's Grand National Assembly in order to investigate business accidents in the mines (935 rows). lu) It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the presentations Wednesday (23/11/2016) and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. The first statement in favour of the Republican People's Party group's proposal is from Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0137par0193	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, in our opinion, the development of a country cannot be measured by its national income, its bridge, its number of malls, its per capita income. The development of a country is measured in how people who build the bridges die. In the European Union, where you once had fireworks in broad daylight, where you now fight for three meals, and in all civilized countries, in developed countries, you don't ride a sea bike, workers don't freeze to death in the middle of an icy lake, workers don't burn to death in the tent in the middle of a 20-million-dollar metropolitan area. Look, dear lawmakers, this is a picture from the past year. Here, in the heart of Istanbul, it shows how workers died in the largest city in Europe. Again, in developed countries, people don't die in mines, people don't forget under cave-ins. In the cave in Elbia, there are still children waiting to be taken out, waiting to hug their mother. Dear friends, the people still under the cave-in have been forgotten. Unfortunately, they haven't been found. Again, maybe people don't die from falling at the most expensive residence construction of a square meter of the area. Unfortunately, in your time, Turkey has become a land of cheap deaths. In this country, in the middle of 15 million worth of Istanbul, people are dying in a plastic tent where they are depositing fish. Dear friends, in the middle of the city -- I don't know if you can believe it, but I want to show it to the AKP Group -- right in the middle of the city, in the flood, in the van, people, women workers are drowning to death. Again, look, dear friends, a 13-year-old boy dies in a factory where he's being picked up to clean, with his head stuck in the press. Dear friends, the boat test is done by workers instead of sandbags at the shipyard in Tuzla, and workers die. Unbelievable. Again, dear friends, that's not how people die in no country in the world. Erzurum is the country where people who were drowned in the ice, who were killed in the overpass, who were hit by a dump truck, who drowned when the dam was opened, who fell in the elevator shaft, who fell on the ferry. Some die under stairs before they're 20 years old, some die in jeans, some in tractor accidents, while others die in this country as victims. You people call it an accident, and we call it a murder, and you call it a fitat, and we call it a failure. Dear friends, no matter what you say, everything in this country is expensive, but death is very cheap. Remember Ermenek, remember Uncle Recep, whose shoe was torn, and his son couldn't swim. Remember his mining mother, Soma, who said, "Remember Soma, the one you kicked the family of miners, the 301 miners, their family, their children. Again, remember Karadon, dear friends; remember the mining accident, which the Prime Minister called fate. In any of these murders, the valued lawmakers have not been punished. The job killings, the job killings, there's a complete lack of punishment. These murders I'm talking about, if they were in any country in the world, they'd be ground to ground, and one responsible would resign. Look, 54 people died in Latvia, because of the accident at the mall, and the Prime Minister resigned; 187 people died in the ferry crash in South Korea, and the Prime Minister resigned. Can that happen in our country? Oh, no. They can't even remove a guard in our country, dear friends. This is the development of democracy, the development of human rights, the measure of civilization. If you can't answer, if you can't account for these murders, nobody can argue that this country has evolved. Look, the last of them, 16 workers in Shirvan, and 16 miners in Siirt. Fire in the 16th January, dear friends. Dear friends, as the Republican People's Party, as soon as we heard the incident, we went to Siirt, along with our Zonguldak MP, Ünal Demirtaş, Sinop MP Barış Black Sea. We met with the Governor of Siirt there, we met with the company's authorities, we interviewed the workers, we interviewed the working families there. We shared with the public the impression that we got there -- the chain of neglects, the greed for profit, the mines that were not inspected again, and the poor people who died as usual. The ministers didn't come when we left, and the ministers didn't when we left. CHP Group, we don't have a private plane. We took the scheduled plane, we went to the minefield, where Nevaf Wrist picked us up, our president of Siirt County. The ministers arrived a few days after us. Dear friends, I give you the minister's statement. The minister, who left after we left, says: "I have not been neglected. " If he did not neglect there, we did not have a conscience in that minister. If you were blind to the neglect of those mines. Unfortunately, that minister's conscience is blind, his own blind, dear friends, whose conscience has dried up, I'm afraid. Look, it's visible. We went all the way up to the top with our friends, and you can see how neglect is. It is a lack of conscience, my friends, to ignore or even blame the worker. Look, dear friends, since the AKP came to power, more than 18,000 people have died from business murders, 18,000 people, 18,000 lives. A fire has fallen on the stove of 18,000 families. Do you know what 18,000 families mean, friends, 18,000 people? A population more than the population of the Hekimhan district of my province is more than the population of the Kangal. 18,000 people have been victims of business murders since you came to power. There's a price to pay for a murder, but unfortunately, we haven't been able to ask the AKP for these murders. 73,500 people were unable to function, 80 work accidents per hour, 706 thousand workers a year face the reality of a work accident. In the last five years, 697 people have died in the mines. Dear lawmakers, the number of workers who died this year alone is 1,600. Look, 1,600 people were killed in a work accident, you can brag about it! Turkey is last in the league of democracy, freedom of the press, but unfortunately, in business killings, Europe is the first, and the world is the third. It is everyone's duty to repair this shame, the power that has ruled the country for 14 years in the first place. But, unfortunately, is there an effort being made? It's not an effort. Dear friends, when every worker dies, the first word is called "fitrat," but for some reason only the workers in Turkey come to them. Dear friends, the fritter doesn't come to the coal cooker in Germany, it doesn't visit Switzerland, it doesn't visit other people's homes, it only knocks on the door of the poor of Anatolia. Is this futrate unique to our own Turkey? Are these precious friends of only the poor Anatolian workers? See, in Shirvan, the cause of the murder is the privatisation, the greed for profit and the subcontractor system, as in other murders. The subcontractor is death, hard work, but low salary, ununionate, unsecured. In Turkey, 90 per cent of business killings are subcontractors. In these killings in Shirvan, there is negligence. Dear friends, on the 25th of July, the landslide falls, the mine is closed, there's been another death, but unfortunately, it's not being taken care of, it's continuing to work. For a full week, it rains heavily on Shirvan, no measures taken, and at 8:30 p.m. on Thursday night, the catastrophe comes, and 16 workers are slaughtered in plain sight. Dear friends, there's no neglect, there's a series of neglects, there's a loud murder, there's a government that doesn't supervise properly. I'm saying it's an occupational hazard where there's negligence, dear friends. Again, I would like to end my words by sharing one thing today: Three years ago, one miner was saved in Zonguldak, his name was Mustafa. Three years ago in Kozlu, eight workers died in the mine. On that day, in the freezing cold, there was an Oriental crying, "Where is my father?" She was happy to see her father, she was happy to see him. Today that boy buried his father, this time he couldn't get his father out of the mine, dear friends. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I would like to make sure that an occupational accident commission is set up, and I salute all of you with the conscience of the Eastkan.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0138par0218	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Bostanci, I'll give you a minute at your place. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0139par0223	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Agbaba will, of course, criticize you as the representative of the opposition, and we will give you the answer, no doubt about it. I need to emphasize two things: the first, after the accident, as soon as the Minister of Energy came from abroad, he went straight there, followed by the Minister of Health, followed by Mr. Müezzinoglu. Three ministers went, studied all kinds of work there, looked at it, followed it. It's unfair to twist a word he just quoted as referring to a minister. It's addressed to the Minister of Health. Mr. Aghababa certainly heard the whole sentence. I didn't see any negligence, but... it goes on,... I can't decide that. There will be an examination, and it will be decided. I did not see any neglect in such a statement. It is an obvious twist and a shame to subject it to unjust criticism. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0140par0228	Thank you. Mr. Special, I'm opening the system for you. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0141par0232	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, if for 50 years in France, a worker has not died in a mine accident in Germany for thirty-five years, the Health Minister would have said something respectful to everyone's mind and conscience if it had not been neglected by this information alone. The reason why this problem, called fettrate, did not separate the miner, is because the hermit is unique to the country, not the profession itself. The fact that the Minister of Energy arrived there days later is an important flaw in the fact that no delegation from the Council of Ministers had been there as soon as the incident was heard. Knowing that there are six arrests, detentions and arrests, it's nothing more than a public perception. The fact that the representatives of this government are going there, that redevance system, that production pressure, even though the government is running it -- despite all the rain that's going into that mine -- is what makes sense, how conscientious is the visit of those who put up and defend it, what they're doing there, what they're arguing about. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0142par0236	Thank you. The first word against the proposal belongs to Manisa MP Erkan Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0143par0243	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Republican People's Party to investigate the accident at the copper mine in Shirvan district of Siirt. I'd like to rephrase that we're going to vote in favor of the Civil Code, even though it's against the law. Dear lawmakers, I have 16 workers buried in the mine accident last Friday, and so far, six of our workers have been found dead. The search for 10 workers continues. I offer God's mercy to our brothers and sisters who have lost their lives, and my condolences to their families, relatives, and loved ones, and I expect our fallen workers to be rescued as soon as possible. And two weeks before this incident, another worker was killed in an accident at the same mining site. As it turns out, the accidents have not been learned, the neglects have continued, and this mine site has been the grave of six more of our workers. Sir, the Minister of Energy has gone and I didn't see any negligence, but... he said. In the Soma mining accident on May 13, 2014, the Minister of Energy said similar things, and he couldn't praise the mining company at the mine he visited before the accident, but 301 people lost their lives. Again, in the same way, I didn't see negligence, but... he says. You didn't see any negligence, but six workers were killed. He gives judgment at the beginning of the presumption sentence, and then he tells it; but you will tell him first, and you will judge later. (Applause from MHP and CHP rows) It's nothing more than a sign of the warp of the mind and the way you look at events. So, as Mehmet Akif Ersoy said, didn't he give us a share of the thousand stories we live in mining? Over May 13, 2014 -- if we take this historic era, it's always been said -- it's been two and a half years, and there's no road to a barley. Now, in business accidents, the third in the world, the first in Europe... In 14 years, 18,000 workers have lost their lives in what we call accidents, and 73,000 workers are unable to function. This is the balance sheet of 14 years of Justice and Development Party power. As we prepare for this talk, what is the situation of these business accidents from various institutions? How many accidents have happened in the mines? What happened? We have tried to investigate, but unfortunately we haven't been able to find any healthy information, even though we've been talking about it over and over again. We have concluded that either these numbers, information, or a study of this still cannot be done collectively. Now, when we look at social security sources, there are 10,558 in 2011, 9.960 in 2012, 14 in 2013 -- there is a serious increase in the rate of reduction -- there are 13,000 in 2014 and a partial reduction in 2015. And it's remarkable that most of the mining accidents in these mines occur in the mines run by the private sector in the form of redevance and service. The second remarkable thing is the political relations of these mining companies. Similar circumstances have occurred in previous mining accidents. It turns out that neither the mining companies nor the relevant institutions, the ministries or the government have learned any lessons, and the experience of mining institutions has been destroyed, and the savings have been destroyed, and the mining business has been left to incompetent, unequivocal and inexperienced individuals and corporations, such practices as subcontractory, uncleship, redevans, and by the excessive production and acquisition ambition that triggers this system. So those who do these things, those who ignore them, have a problem with their physique, not in accidents, but in the nature of those who do not take precautions. Therefore, dear friends, the lack of supervision has now been expressed hundreds of times in the research commission in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in the relevant commissions, in the General Assembly. The ministers in charge couldn't answer most of them; I'm not saying he didn't answer, he couldn't answer, he couldn't account, I'm afraid he couldn't. The elements that have neutralized the controls have not been restored, despite all the time that's passed. In December 2014, a Soma Research Report was issued by the commission. All of us, all of us, our friends from all the party groups, have been very valuable, very important contributions. Now, when we take another look at that report, believe it -- I repeat -- we see that it's not made for a barley length, and there's no measures and arrangements. There are very valuable suggestions in the report, which has found so many 1,300 pages. We did this together as ruling and opposition groups, but that report wasn't even brought to the General Assembly's agenda. We've had suggestions, we've had offers, and we certainly need to bring that up again. In this report, there were important proposals, both in opposition statements and in the report itself; I want to repeat some of them as much as I can: The government should see that its current mining policy is no longer human and moral, but should withdraw from its political interests and rant approaches. The risk analysis of the mining sector must be fully done, creating a institutional structure for measures to be taken, creating occupational health, labour safety, labour health and management system, and for that, the first step should be to establish the ministry of mining. We have to end subcontractorisation and redevance practices as commissions and as managers. A new institutional structure must be established in order to ensure effective coordination among the auditing institutions. We said that each mine has its own geological, mineralogenic properties, that its operating methods are different, that there is also an expertise in taking control of these mines. The equipment used in the production process, personal protectors, occupational health and safety should be produced in accordance with standard and regulations. We have stated that non-conscious and technological mining should not be avoided from making necessary investments in the mines, and we have brought many other suggestions that need to be removed from the impulse of fast and high profit. With these thoughts, I wish you all the satisfaction of this motion of investigation.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0144par0253	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. The second word in favour of the Republican People's Party's group's proposal belongs to Sidri Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0145par0257	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. In connection with the disaster that took place in the mining village of Shirvan, Shirvan, Turkey, where I was acting on November 17, 2016, we studied the incident at the site, with a technical and scientific commission containing both geologists and engineers, and prepared a preliminary report. I'd like to share with you the summary of that preliminary report. First of all, in the first stage of the creation of the mining field, the earthquakes, rain, lighting, and so on have not been noted, these are not reported; those who have to work there will either work in the mine or you will be without bread. As a result of our meeting with workers and families who work at the mine and our condolences and conversation, it is said that before this landslide, there were about 80 centimetres of cracks, which had not been reported to the authorities, and that the cracks were covered in mud and soil, and of course, you need to investigate. Again, on the day of the collapse, they said that explosives were detonated far above normal, and the impact of this collapse was largely self-inflicted. While we were having another conversation with one of the victim family heads, we suddenly saw the person who was there fighting with someone in civilian clothing, and we got in the middle, and we asked him why, and he said, "Whoever we say a few words to since this happened, these civilian-wearers immediately come and record our voice with the equipment they carry with them, and they influence us. There was a cave-in in July this year, but thank God there was no loss of life, and there was a cave-in in July, but no measures were taken. If a measure had been taken, perhaps these 16 fellow workers would be among us today. The rescue is conducted there by volunteer workers and family members. There's no state, no AFAD, no government, and no business officials there. Moreover, if anything were to happen to you, you are responsible for it again. Because this same company authorities caused a disaster in Elbia five years ago, when nine of our fellow workers were in a cave-in, and the account was not asked. If this massacre in Elbia had occurred elsewhere in the modern world, all the powers of that company would have been taken from them and all their contracts would have been revoked. But instead of going at it, our company has been made to pursue other mining sites because these and other companies know very well that their negligence and responsibilities should be tied to the barrel by someone else. Because these and other companies, Mr. Tuncer Bakırhan, who was taken into custody, were appointed trustees while he was in custody, were appointed as trustees, but because their own authorities were certain that they would not be appointed trustees to their companies, they also showed this recklessness, where they said to volunteers: "Don't throw the land you've hit on the mine, let's not be forced to dig it out of there after a few days. I mean, they're looking at that mine again with a guaranteed eye. I also find it helpful to say: Look, religious terminology is very important to be careful when using it. It's called "fitrat," so don't let anyone try to teach anyone a lesson. If we have to write something on the futrate, we can write and write 10 very quickly. Fitrate means creation, which means that God created man on truth, freedom, and equality. I mean, every human being, every individual, religion, color, faith, language, whatever it is, is born free, born free, and born equal. The Prophet says that.......... ▪ Man is created on the outside, meaning this right and the law, justice and equality. Therefore, freedom and equality rights today are not a term in the term "substantial" or "extreme," "protest," "protest" and "subject" are not a term in the term "subject" for people who are oppressed to resist their own mistakes. I mean, phytrates are the rights and freedoms that every human being is born with as a human being. Instead of providing them, it cannot be achieved by twisting the term and by trying to put the people to sleep, and it is also called fate and trust. Look, when you say "telebal," it comes to mind. Even though he was wearing his helmet and armor as he went to war, even though he was a prophet, then he left the result to God and transferred it to him, and then he trusted. And we call it fate. Fate's response in the Qur'an is measure, measure, measure, balance. For him, it is said that,,,,,,,, x, all things are determined in the sight of Allah by measure, balance, and balance. If this fate had been carried out in the field where that dent had occurred, if the reports had been made, if the measurements had been made, if this place had been investigated for mining, for blasting dynamite, and if a decision had been reached, we would have called amenna. But the Viceroys and the Emevis used both fate and fictrate to keep their own power and palaces going. The deputy himself says -- this is what Muhammad Ammar says -- don't oppose my wealth, don't oppose my palace and my power. You can't change anything, even if you object, because this Green Palace, this Al-Kazrül-Ahdar, has given me destiny, and has given me an extremity. That palace and all that dominance were taken in a frame of persecution, injustice, and anti-Hesemism. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I hope my words will be taken into consideration, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0146par0267	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Tanal, please, I've opened up to 60.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0147par0271	Mr. President, thank you. I have a brief word for the Civil Charter, according to 60. If I'm not mistaken, the Minister is here, and the Minister is here. There is news on social media that, by the decree of yesterday's law, Petty Officer Assat Shield, who was a martyr in Afghanistan, was discharged in August. What is it? Is this really the same person as the Assat Shield, which was discharged by yesterday's decree, and Petty Officer Assat Shield, who was killed in Afghanistan? If it's not the same person, then it's really the jeweler's meticulousness that means that there's no export process. I urge the Ministry to be sensitive about this. Greetings and greetings.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0148par0275	Thank you. The second and final speaker against the proposal is Bolu MP Ali Ercoshkun. Here you go, Mr. Ercoshkun.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0149par0282	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a promise against the CHP group proposal. I hereby salute the General Assembly. We are facing a catastrophe, a landslide that took place in a private copper mine in the village of Shirvan, Siirt Province, Mining, at 21.07 p.m. on 17 November. First of all, I wish God's mercy to the seven people who lost their lives and patience to their families. I wish that all nine of our citizens, who have not yet been reached, be reached immediately. Fire burns where it falls. We've been through a lot of pain. First of all, I'd like to say that this pain is supposed to be political, political. I would like to say once again that the disaster is being investigated at the height of its human, political, administrative, judicial, legal controls, and is currently being investigated. The Department of Energy General Directorate, MTA, Turkish Petroleum, TKI, institutions that are equally relevant to the Ministry of Labor and Social Security; the AFAD (AFAD) with 149 people from the 11 municipal administrations to Erzurum (Erzud) and 11 search rescue teams; the Ministry of Interior's Security General Directorate, the General Command of the People's Office; from here, I would like to express once again that the Ministry of Health has been in the area with eight ambulances, two national medical rescue teams and 23 staffs; the Ministry of Family and Social Policys with 30 personnel. Our dear friend, Labour and Social Security Deputy Orhan Yegin, is currently on the crisis table chaired by the Ministry of Energy Deputy Undersecretary Abdulkerim Yörükoğlu, as well as following these procedures in the field. The area where the accident took place is in a parking electric zone. Park Electricity, Ants Construction, C3 Construction, MDNK Construction and Nasseroglu's business partnership took place in a landslide disaster in the area where the Ants Construction operates. In the disaster that occurred in the area where 21 workers from around 881 were working, five workers survived the accident, 16 workers were trapped under floating material, seven bodies were reached, and nine others continue to work. It's 280 meters wide, 260 meters long, with a mass movement of about 400,000 cubic metres of rock covering the entire area. There are also thought to be business machines and missing persons in this area. Twenty-four hours of work continues with 16 eccentrics, five dozers, two loders, two grapefruits and 40 trucks. Of course, Turkey's Oil's magnetic search party is currently working at the location of the business machines in particular. Students from 9/11 University who specialize in landslide are, in fact, conducting relevant work in the field. Of course, the area's width, this landslide disaster outside the area of study, has to be carried out in a delicate way due to a serious shift. Because in order to avoid a new disaster during the study, this needs to be taken very seriously. At the crisis table, which was created following the news of the incident, all the institutions that I just counted are active with the contributions of the State of Siirt. Our Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, Mr. Berat Colonelrak, who was in Uzbekistan with Mr. President on official business at the time of the incident, went to the site as soon as he returned home. As Mr. Group Vice President has just stated, our Minister of Health, the Minister of Labor and Social Security, has also attempted to conduct all investigations of themselves in the field. I'd also like to say once again that the work continues with a large staff. Of course, it's not very healthy to actually evaluate the subject with statistical values, even if it's a dying person, it's impossible to tolerate the loss of one person, but it's possible to see about two times as much improvement when we evaluate the number of employee-insuranced accidents and the rate of work accidents during the EC PARTI period. Is that enough? Of course not. As I said, it's impossible to tolerate even a dying person, but there must be some improvements in this matter. We've just learned that the Labour Health and Occupational Security Review Subcommittee, which Mr. Jülide Sarıeroğlu, a member of the Commission for Human Rights Review, is the subcommittee of the Human Rights Commission, is actually interested in the matter. This Commission, established ahead of July 15th, plans to go to the field later this week, and we know that it has not been able to go, especially because of the fact that the women's deputies have been active in the past few days. But we also need to explain once again that the Labour Health and Occupational Security Review Subcommittee established in the Parliament's Human Rights Review Commission next week will go into the area and conduct research on the issue representing the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Dear friends, I repeat once again that there are 881 employees on the field and 113 workers on duty at the time of the accident and 21 workers on the scene of the accident. The rescue of nine workers under collapse is now our top priority. In the meantime, it's our duty to support these delicate works. Of course, it is our primary duty to continue the investigations as this process continues. We are here, especially when it comes to one person's life, that no one who is negligent, who has a flaw, should be taken care of. But as Parliament, we would also like to state that the duties of the House to perform in various organs would not result in the establishment of a parliamentary research commission. So, first of all, we think it's right for the House to follow its work within its own organs -- because we have lawmakers representing all groups of these commissions -- and then we think it's the right thing to do, given that it's inadequate. In recent years, studies related to Soma (Soma), as you know, were co-existent work, and we are all witnesses to serious steps on occupational health and safety with the legal arrangements followed by these studies.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0150par0295	I swear I'm not a witness. I'm not a witness. It's not true, it's not. I'm not a witness.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0149par0296	So, together with all the members of the House, we aim to take these steps, and in that sense, we think that these subcommittee studies are particularly important, and that it would be healthier to have an assessment of the following week's subcommittee visit with the participation of all parties. A variety of inspections on the field, of course, have occurred in the past, but in the meantime, if there was a lack of control, or if there was a negligence at the time, as I just said, I'd like to say that we've been thinking about going over it with you before anyone gets laid. Dear friends, for the reasons I mentioned earlier, I would like to state that we will vote against the motion. As you know, tomorrow is November 24th. In fact, you know that on November 24th, Teacher's Day -- my wife is not active, but a teacher -- you should also remember elementary school teachers. At first, I salute the Teachers' Day of all my elementary school teachers, and the Teachers' Day of Makbule Milkman, but the Teachers' Day of all teachers, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0151par0301	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0152par0304	Roll call.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit05spe0151par0305	Yes, there's a request for a roll call before the Republican People's Party proposal goes to a vote, and we're welcoming it. Mr. Bingöl, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu, Mr. Adılıçe, Mr. İrgil, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Akyıldı, Mr. Engin, Mr. Kayan, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Inönü Division, Mr. Sarıbal, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Gökdağ. Yeah, I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, as the Court of Parliament, we ask the blessings of God to all our citizens who have died in this cave-in accident due to the incident in Siirt Shirvan. We offer our condolences to their relatives and families. It's 20 o'clock for the merger. I'm taking a break until 00.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit06spe0151par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and move to the part of the agenda with the draft and proposals of the Law and other actions from the Commission. We begin negotiations with the Penal Code, which is ranked in the 1st place, and with the Law Bill and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the 2nd place, under the National Ministry of Education's Decision on the Department of Education and its duties, we will discuss the amendments to some Law and Law Law Act, the Law Act of Public Law and the amendment of Erkan Akçay, Erzurum MP Mustafa Ilım's Law and Law Law Code, the Constitutional Minister's Democratic Ersoy and the National Movement Party Group's Manisa MP Erkan Akçay. We will discuss the amendments to the 2547 High School Law Act, the amendments to the Law, the draft of the Law and the draft of the Law, and the Council of Law of Law, the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Education and the Parliamentary Movement Party of Manisa MP. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 27th article. On behalf of the groups, Republican People's Party Bursa MP Ceyhun Irgil has asked for a speech on the first chapter. Here you are, Mr. Irgil. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit06spe0153par0019	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, first of all, tomorrow is Teacher's Day, November 24th. On this occasion, first of all, I celebrate Teachers' Day, a liberal understanding and spirit -- all of our teachers' Day, who have raised our children as good people, people who love their country, and people who love their nation, and who strive to develop the consciences and minds of our children. Dear friends, as you know, we're discussing a bill on the National Education Agency. Here, you often say, "The opposition is always critical, but it never makes suggestions." In fact, we're suggesting that you don't hear it, and even if you do, you ignore it. I'll give you some suggestions today, along with some suggestions on some issues, of course. Guys, number one, one of the biggest problems is the appointment of teachers. As far as teaching assignments go, you know there's a lot of chaos and chaos. Because of each minister's different explanation and different statements from the ministry bureaucrats, thousands of teachers are waiting to be appointed to the KPSS exams and cannot put their lives in order while waiting for these results. Our proposal is that a standard, fair, and KPSS-oriented assignment model be implemented every year in February. We have a lot of details to tell you about this, but we'll give you other details in other matters of the law. Other than that, there's a chartered teaching clause that we object to. The Ministry of National Education, as you know, carried out his final appointment as a contract teacher. We are fundamentally against it, but there are some problems in this assignment. One of them is the gravel crew. When we assign a teacher to a new development site with a gravel staff, we hope and hope that he stays there for six years. This staff has no guarantees, and it depends on certain conditions. And when it comes to marriage here, especially between two contract teachers, it seems impossible for these people to get together. For example, when one of them is appointed a two - contract teacher in Bitlis, one in Ağrı. These two people, engaged, cannot get married and can't fulfill their marriage. The Ministry needs to develop a path-launching and appropriate formula. Other than that, one of the most important problems is the interview that came up with the contract teacher, and we're against it. Because we think that if there's an interview, there's always a torpedo, and we ask a lot of the same questions: if it's a terrorist organization, isn't security investigation enough? If you say no, it's not enough, it's necessary to interview. If you're asking, then we're asking: You've exported thousands of teachers and staff. Did you interview these people? Since you can only export thousands of teachers with a certain security investigation or security information, without having done any interviews, we think there's a doubt in the interviews at these teachers' appointments. Let me read you one example, and we've had thousands of interviews where we've had a torpedo call, and I've shown you a video of a lot of them. But I also got a new sample of whatsApp. A conscienced teacher sent me a message because he was ashamed and bored, and I am ashamed, and God forgive me, and I have sinned, but now I hope he sent you... as if he were confessing. He says in the correspondence here: "Would it be all right if an accident were to happen?" "It doesn't have to be assigned to Ankara's accidents," he says, "East." After that, the commissioners are two of our partners. Thank you, brother. You're great. Because of these events -- I mean, I guess I was afraid I'd be eliminated there, too -- due to recent developments. We need men. Ali Abi said, "Find four people." He said, "I've taken care of two uncles' children, and now I think of you." Thank you, brother. Here you are, Mr. Secretary, one of the examples of the interviews being torpedoed. Other than that, we suggested that the KPSS will be the real thing and the camera will be put on the commission. As a matter of fact, we insist on this offer. If the interview is to be done, if you're sincere, if you're confident, then let's put a camera on the commissions, at least let the people have the right to object. Another subject is the subject of paid teaching. Thousands of teachers are waiting to be appointed, but we're tasking thousands of people, people who aren't teachers, and by the way, thousands of people are unemployed. And I can give you a couple of examples of these -- there are thousands of examples, but for example, accounting and tax graduates, no formalization, class teacher. He's a business graduate, no form, a homeroom teacher. Computer programmer, no formation, homeroom teacher. Finance graduate, no formalization, English teacher. Nurse, no formation, science and technology teacher. We recommend that the subject of this paid teaching be removed from its roots and taught by people who have received formalisation, and that teaching be taken seriously. I'm not going to go too far into major injustice, but I want you to know that there are some very serious complaints about this, too. Other than that, one of the big problems seems to be a small problem, but unfortunately for them, it's a big problem, the appointment of a disabled teacher. There were 1,500 disabled teachers left, but despite all efforts, despite all insistence, we were unable to resolve the appointment of disabled teachers. I thank the Ministry for the transfers of partners, and indeed there has been an effort, and a solution has been reached, but even though the State Department has sent instructions to governorships, we still see that some problems in the province cannot be resolved, and by June, we see that municipal transfers have been resolved. We permanently hope that people will not be separated from their wives or separated from their spouses. You know about this wife, family integrity, two, three days ago, you cared deeply about the family integrity that Mr. Free Special put on the agenda of Turkey, and you came on to us a lot about it, and you said, "Does he not want family unity, or does he not want family unity?" I say the same thing to the Ministry of National Education: please, let the Ministry of National Education look at the family union of teachers in the first place as a constitutional necessity. Other than that, the expelled, suspended teachers have no measurement, no criteria, no right to defend. I don't want to say this, but I just want to say one sentence: is the Ministry, which proposed the legal union, a white spoon out of milk, a poor officer who belongs to the union for a whole bunch of different reasons? Do you have a legal and conscientious explanation for this? That's what we're asking, and that's what we're waiting for. We expect a quick solution from the Ministry regarding the teachers whose license has been revoked because there is no legal action on these people, there is no verdict. We mustn't stop these people from finding work and food. In these winter months, these people get over their kids, they want a job for themselves. That's why we're waiting for the Ministry to hold your hand faster on this. As for private school teachers, one of the most neglected, on the edge of the school line, is one of the teachers' groups -- their rights and salary differences are huge. If you want a proposal, we expect a radical change and proposal from the Ministry to ensure that private school teachers' salaries are not less than teachers' salaries in the state, in a very simple way or in a very simple way. Here's another radical suggestion: let's get a teacher's code of conduct, and we'd like that. We have a lot of teachers in this House right now. There's people who get their roots from teaching and come here with other professions. We think that if the teaching profession can be passed, these problems will be solved radically. Other than that, I have a suggestion: this is a serious political movement and footwork in the election of the mayor and branch managers, and the teachers are consuming each other. I'm making you a suggestion: in every major city, the heads of borough education and branch managers will be expelled from the academics, just like in the mufti. In some counties, you know, only professors, professors, were appointed mufti. In the same way, the director of national education will be elected from academics, professors and professors, so that these political footworks and teachers will cease to consume each other. Especially those who have a PhD in education, sociology, and philosophy, who prepare thesis, who have a master's degree. Finally, the Ministry insisted on biometric identification of the disabled education, but in our recent talks, we do what the national will wants. And we believe in them, and we believe that this will only be solved by camera method. Actually, there were a lot of problems with education. I'd like to complete them if I have a say in any other matter again. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit06spe0154par0041	Thank you, Mr. Irgil. The second word on behalf of the groups is for the Peoples' Democratic Party Group of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) MP Ahmet Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit06spe0155par0045	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we've carried out legislation here countless times in the last year as baggies of laws or fundamental laws. Yes, amendments are undoubtedly prepared to respond to social needs, agreed on by the General Assembly and can be submitted to approval. However, there is no problem with drafting a bill, but I would like to draw your attention to one thing that is very clear in the existing bill, as well as in many legislations, that can be addressed through the problems that have come out of their experience, that have been determined by that experience, that lack of centralisation, that new legislation can be drafted to produce solutions. In particular, the main number (1/711) is the National Education Law and the organizational structure, which envisions more and more centralisation in the spirit of the law, an increasingly bloated bureaucracy, an integrated bureaucracy, and certain substances that predict the inclusion of new staffs over them. And since chapter one is more than capable of these things, I'd like to draw some attention to these issues. Now, when the AKP comes to power, let's remember a sentence that it often emphasizes: we will fight the Oligarchic bureaucracy. However, each day, after enjoying its neighbouring and politicizing bureaucracy, they introduced certain laws and regulations that served to further firmen and authoritarianize the bureaucracy. Now, as one fact states, think about it, the bloated bureaucracy is always pointing out that social problems are growing and social problems are getting complicated. If there's a need for red tape to grow, swell, oligarshict, one of the main issues that we can get out of there is that social problems are growing. We demand Kafka to read the Law novel, which we can all know, especially as to what the structures and understanding that care about bureaucracy should understand. There, we see very strikingly how bureaucracy serves to promote social issues. Another issue: In particular, increasing the number of undersecretary assistants in certain articles, turning consultants into general managers, and the creation of a lot of new bureaucratic staffs is an indication for political power, for us: the fact that political power is trying to build its own regime does not bring to our mind anything else, especially the number of bureaucratic boards that can contribute to the construction of this regime, especially the number of bureaucratic staffs who will be triggering it at the new regime's facility. The bureaucratic councils, which will be the trigger for power, which will contribute to the new regime he is trying to build, will not help this country and this community to solve social problems, which have so far been the product of decades. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in my speech before this, I pointed out that I had brought up examples from the district of Bonds of Diyarbakır, in my speech on the matter of suspensions and exports that had come to the attention of the law. I told you that a large number of teachers had entered classes at the center of Diyarbakır, and that an important portion of their classes had failed today's TEOG exam, which will take place tomorrow. Mr. Secretary was taking notes at the time, and we don't know what steps he had or what steps he had to take about the solution proposals to the problem, no matter how much he really looked into it. But let me point out that paying teachers are one of the bleeding wounds of education in this country. Mr. Secretary, you know very well that a teacher with an average of eight to ten years of service has a salary of around $3,000. Look, the teacher who attends 15 hours a week -- for pay -- is paid $3,000 a week. And in return, Mr. Secretary, do you know the fee he received when a teacher who went to school with him, who had the same education, who had the same training, entered 30 hours a week, or twice as much as the teacher who received the 3,000 lira salary? A thousand liras. Imagine, if a teacher is assigned to the same faculty as a fellow graduate, she will receive a salary of 3,000 lira per hour for 15 hours, but her friend will enter 30 hours a week, and she will receive only a thousand lira for being paid. That would undermine the peace of work. That would undermine the work justice. This indicates a situation that should be condemned, especially in public consciences. Mr. Secretary, especially since the speaker before me has pointed out too many problems with the interview, but I would like to point out to you that there is a matter of provisions in the law: Article 677, which was published two days ago, Article 4 of the Code of Justice, Mr. Secretary, look, the detention of a man who has not been sentenced, is in violation of his central system examinations. Is it possible, Mr. Secretary, that a prisoner can't take central systems exams, and if he is a student, he can't take visas and final exams? Think about it, it's 70 per cent more, it's okay to continue, a university student, a third-grader, will not be able to enter visas and finals with a decree under the rule of law. Another issue is that imprisonment is being transformed into dispossession of the right to education. This also violates the principle of equality in Article 10 of the Constitution, which also violates the right to education in Article 42 of the Constitution. In this way, decrees under the law are the best indication of how those who view the coup after July 15th as God's blessing use it to establish their own regimes and schemes. And if not, you may not hire a prisoner or a convicted man, and we understand that -- there's nothing understandable about it for me -- but how do you get the right to education out of your hands? How can the right of a prisoner to take a central system exam be taken from him? What is the principle of equality in Article 10 of the Constitution? This order is a system of cruelty. The decrees under the law never apply to a democracy, not to a public safety measure, but to complete fascism. Because we are facing a situation that is far behind even the rights of the Constitution, which was uncovered by the coup d'état of September 12th. In other words, let us draw attention to another situation that has been disclosed in the law's decree regarding the application for the rectory. This week, the Board of Higher Education announced that it will apply to 19 universities for the appointment of rectors through press bodies. Do you know what they're doing, running for president? A professor at any university -- Mr. Minister -- is leaving, filling out a one-page form in the SEC, filling out only one-page forms, and if the President appreciates it, he's going to be president. For God's sake, a company is doing more serious work when they're buying tea for their own company. Think about it. He's going to be appointed president of a university. What's his criteria? He will fill out only one page of forms for the RDC, and then he will become a candidate for the rector. The representatives of the ruling party gave examples from universities where the presidential elections were not held. Yes, there is no such thing as a single man, a single professor, or a faculty member, in places where there is no presidential election. What's he doing? The trustees' delegation of that province gathers local voters and makes serious assessments of applications to their universities and performs their appointment as chancellor. If not, then there is no such thing as a single man making the person he wants to be president at universities without an election, and as the ad of this week's ad and the CEC ad, we now fully understand what will happen next. In particular, I would like to express my thoughts on the remaining issues in the matter department. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit06spe0156par0055	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Now, the third and final word for the group belongs to Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Aydın, you also have a speech on behalf of individuals, so I'll give you 15 minutes, both on behalf of the group and on behalf of the person. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit06spe0157par0060	Thank you. Mr. President, very valuable MPs, and I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on chapter one. I salute the High Council. Before I begin my speech, first, I wish success to our young ones who have taken the TEOG exam and sweated, and I congratulate them again on their families who have shown them great patience and patience. Sir, in a few hours, we have calendars showing November 24th. You know, it's Teacher's Day tomorrow. Of course, as we celebrate Teacher's Day, I first want to remember our teachers who taught us a lot of letters, not a letter. I'd like to begin by asking for mercy for those who have taught us to be us, who have come to eternity, and health for those who live, and pleasure for those who live. But there's a group that I can't get past without referring to them. With my memory, I hope to crown it and try to express Teacher's Day in a more meaningful, and unequivocal way. Sir, our college years... we were two friends from two provinces of Asia Minor with a goal of teaching. We've been under very difficult circumstances, those harsh conditions of September 12th had just happened. I was able to share my bunk with a mighty, unfathomable young man of Elazig, whose name was Fevzi Qatar, in the uppermost, and in the loan dorms. This brother and I were both candidates for two high-profile teachers from a family background that could be considered truly low-income economically. We've finished our school, we've been blessed with our dreams. I joined a training caravan to do my academic studies, and my brother Fevzi became a courageous teacher. But in 1994, this dear brother of mine was one of the five people who were taken out of his quarters by terrorists in Pertek district of Tunceli, not far from home. Believe me, the most important thing I remember is that this was a parka that my brother and I bought with our first loan; sometimes he wore it, sometimes I wore it. And we'd come from his hometown, and we'd mix it up, and we'd have breakfast together. This friend was the only hope of an 11-population family, and while he performed a sacred duty, such as teaching, he was sadly murdered by treacherous terrorists. Now, in my dear brother's presence, all the martyrs of the educational community -- they are polar stars, especially because I believe that the educational community is truly enlightening polar stars -- I remember them in your presence with mercy, with gratitude. And let not Allah fail in their testimony against Us. Respected lawmakers, we are facing a recent spiral of problems within the Ministry of National Education, in all phases of education, and in all the shareholders of education. In fact, there is a problem in the Ministry of National Education, as in all ministries in Turkey. Why am I saying this now? Because the education has important shareholders: we have students, we have a big number; on one hand we have their guardians; on the other we have us; on the other hand, we have a major staff in education and teaching. Taking into consideration these three denominators, we are experiencing some problems that are very closely related to these three legs of education. I'll try to express these in very short headlines. Look, so far, a lot of the speakers have been talking about the law that we're talking about, and they've been talking about it in detail, but we have to keep an eye on the whole thing. Because if we do the projection well, it'll be more obvious to solve problems, and I think we'll get a better look. Now, when we look at these, once again, we still have a lot of schools that still lack in physical conditions -- yes, a significant growth, development, in accordance with the spirit of this time -- we still have a lot of schools that want to be contributed to, and we still have to witness that there are a few classes of education being done in a classroom, and we still have a concept of education that is required from cleaning equipment parents. Besides, look, we're dealing with a constant changing test format, which is in all stages of training. So before, we went from pre-school education to pre-school logic, whatever happened suddenly to 4+4+4, which we didn't, to a return to pre-school education by trying to change the system again. We can no longer keep the names of the exams in memory. So whether I say, "SBS" or "OKS" or "TEOG" or "What do we remind you of?" That goes for middle school, and that goes for our college kids. We're alone with an unsubstantiated educational system based on a trial and error logic. At the top of that, look, it's going to be a beautiful metaphor, but among the ministries, the Ministry of National Education, which has changed the most ministers, is interesting. Oh, so we have a problem with stability. If it's really stable... because even a project that's supposed to fail the most, if it's followed by stability, it becomes a success, but if there's constant transitions from the most successful projects to someone else, it needs success. Thus, our instability, which has started with a change in the Ministry of National Education, continues with test formats, including curriculumes. Why? Because, we're looking at syllabuses that are constantly variable. Now, we're also looking at books recently published by the Board of Education. We've been able to study the books from last year, and believe me, there are so many aracronistics, so historical flaws. Yeah, can you imagine Florence taking Florence to France? History books are in the 9th grade book. Sir, it's called Mr. Turgut Özal, Prime Minister in 1997. It's 1997 and the late Ozal. Now, sir, we're encountering a map of civilization, a map of Austria's great writing on the continent of Australia. A drill like this now doesn't make any sense to publish. Now I'm going to tell them why, first I'm going to count them all, then I'm going to take turns, then the Minister is here, and I'm going to tell them why. I'd like to tell you something that's been going on recently with the Board of Education that has really touched me deeply. A very valuable teacher, a senior of ours, is requesting a book from a senior of ours, who has actually made sense of the books he wrote in Turkish science history. Sir, we want a book on education sociology. He puts on his glasses, sits on his desk, and rewrites this book. He's sending it on the air, but unfortunately, he's been rejected, denied at the last stage, not by those who were not able to measure the value of that book, especially by the unassigned authorities in Training Discipline. Why, why? What's the excuse? I mean, believe me -- I won't name names, but -- he's really a scientist that I'm excited to see in Turkish science. I'm protesting from here that those friends who have given thirty-forty years to Turkish science and wrote one of the few rare works about Kutadgu Bilig in Turkey can't be published. I'll give the detailed information to Minister Bey. Now, why is this happening? Why was it rejected? What was he missing? Sir, in particular, this pirate-friendly union logic has always come into play, as it does in all levels of the Ministry of National Education. We say it all the time because it hurts us too, not like this. Look, we've had an incident, we're still not learning from it. Why? Because we didn't put merit first, and that's what happened to us. But we're always calling it "legality," we're always calling it "legality." So, when are we going to give the job to your people? God forbid, will it come to us after the catastrophes? I wonder who they are, who dares to evaluate these great artifacts, how great they really are. Dear lawmakers, look -- the teacher's appointments have been constantly expressed -- another problem -- a fever problem, that's the problem with all of us; let's just quickly appoint the disembodied staff, no more education, no more school, no more teachers, no more teachers, no more classes outside their majors. Everyone, thank God, our brothers and sisters, raised in every major state of the Republic of Turkey, are ready to take office, under the most difficult circumstances, and let's open the way for them. Sir, tens of thousands of teachers have been suspended on an excuse for a union. So now, we have the necessary responses from the union, from the bureaucracy, from the political man, from the government, from the public, from the NGOs, that can't be a criminal element. He's a member of a government-opened union, and he's suspended for it. Then we'll have to start the button from the top. If this union is a focus of guilt, we think it's necessary to start with everyone in this union who has jurisdiction and responsibility. Another, again, is the true demands and demands of our teachers, especially at the point of their rights. I've just been given a number of data, and I don't want to repeat it, but the working conditions aren't very healthy, believe me, work conditions aren't very good, their earnings aren't very healthy. We are especially asking our government for support in this matter. Look, I'm going to talk about another bleeding wound again. Now, for some reason, we're in a confusion of concepts, including national education, we can't name it. I mean, we have a concept of a century and a half of inspectorship, which is really very, very systematic, very functional. Guys, we can't name these inspectors. We tested it, we took it. Indeed, we had inspectors who had been chosen, each of whom proved to be in their own field, who became elementary school inspectors at one point. Now, what happened? Investigators who took 90 and more with central exams suddenly stood out. Again, the union came in, sir, on me. I mean, I can't accept it. I can't accept a unionist who sees himself on the behalf of a bureaucrat, a consultant, a general manager, an undersecretary, even an undersecretary, which doesn't make sense or reason or anything. They really need to be reported and sent back to where they belong as soon as possible. They're uncomfortable with inspectors. What do we do? Let's change the selection format, just like we did with the teachers. What do we do? Let's do an interview. What are we interviewing? For God's sake, why are you disrupting an idealistic structure that has worked for thirty years, taught all over Asia Minor, dedicated all its material spirituality to children, why, why, why? Tomorrow's Teacher's Day. I mean, what are we gonna tell those inspectors? Let's change the name, change the test format with that excuse. He'll be a D.O.D. inspector. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No, let's call it elementary school again, again. With this kind of trial and error, if we turn these structures into puzzles, we won't get a healthy result. In particular, we're doing this double approach from inspectors to school administrators. We're losing very talented, very qualified, very competent staff of the Ministry of National Education until yesterday; we're breaking people down, believe me. I'd like to review these assignments, starting with the governors of territorial education, starting down, taking into account the merits, the driver's license, the expertise of today's term, and considering the qualifications on that subject. I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit06spe0158par0077	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Second and final speaker on behalf of individuals, Congressman Turabi Kayan of the 40s. Here you go, Mr. Kayan.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit06spe0159par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on education. Dear friends, what is the greatest power in the world? The world's greatest power is neither money nor military power nor other power. Science is the greatest power in the world. Let's call it Western countries, or Western countries, because they know very well, all these developed countries have divided up to 50 percent and more than 50 percent of their national income into national education to give them the best education in their country. Today, Japan was destroyed after World War II, and despite its distress, it became today by dividing 70 per cent of its country's national income into education. We're a nation that actually knows that very well. Therefore, a country that had given the War of Salvation, a republic, developed a system of education in order to develop and overpower it while its country was in ruins, and it was called the institutions of the village. The village institutes were trained to take a child who was born in his village, to give him back to his village, to train the students in that village, and also to increase the production of the village, and to provide skills for the fathers of the students, but the world's rulers and their collaborators in our country knew very well that they had developed this method of development, this method of education, which they had shut down, and they had developed a variety of methods to make this country dark again. Dear friends, what did this educational system do next? After World War II, one of the Far East countries goes to England, and we want to improve our country, and we want to improve it quickly; if you have a suggestion for us, we'll take it here, we'll study it, we'll improve it in our country, they say. The answer given by England's educational expert is very interesting: the educational system you are looking for is neither in England nor in the western countries of the West, nor in the west. The education system you want is in Turkey today, so go get it from them, learn it and build your country. He comes here, works six months in Turkey, goes six months later, puts this educational system in their country, and that country is today the richest country in the world. Years go by, fifty-fifty years later, this country accepts this educational system, the village institute education system, as the world's best system. Dear friends, while the world is doing this, as we have closed our village institutes, we, unfortunately, shut down industrial vocational schools that still exist today, even though they still exist, we send imam-hater high schools there, even though they have everything, and we shut down industrial vocational high schools. Dear friends, today, development happens with technical training, education, but the best happens with technical education, with the best education system. In our country today, teachers of our best education teachers have eliminated these educational systems, and also the education experts, professors, academics, who have chosen them today, are trying to make the most of the education of this country, not to be appointed chancellors today, but to promote those who are no longer candidates. I understand they have an account with this country. I'm saying what they're doing to this country is going to sink the country. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit06spe0160par0091	Thank you. On the first part of the bill, there is a motion in accordance with Article 72 of the Civil Code. I'm having the motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that their talks on the first chapter of the 405th legislature shall be carried out according to Article 72 of the Civil Code. Melike Basmacı Birol Erum Ömer Fethi Gürer Turabi Kayan Mehmet Gökdağ Vecdi Gündoğdu Muharrem Male Seyit Grandkin Sibel Özdemir I submit to you the motion of Free Special and his friends, those who agree...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit06spe0161par0109	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit06spe0160par0110	Mr. Basmacı, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Men, Mr. Kayan, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Çayak, Mr. Gündoğdu, Mr. Oğum, Mr. Torun, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Öz, Mr. Sarıbal, Mr. Demir, Mr. Topal. Mr. Special, no, there's not 20 of them.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit06spe0161par0112	There's 22 of them!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit06spe0160par0113	It didn't count. Give us some backup over here, guys, give us two, and we'll be done. Mr. Can, Mr. Günnar. Okay, there's 20 of them. You've also received support from the ruling party, Mr. Special. We're doing a pre-voting roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start. [[Checked with electronic device]] We don't have enough for a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0160par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the motion to continue the talks in the first part of the 405 row of the Bill of Law, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to your votes the motion to continue negotiations between Free Special and his friends: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The talks on chapter one are complete. Now we're going to do a question-and-answer procedure for 15 minutes. I promise Mr. Demir, Mr. Gürer, Mr. lion and Mr. Basmacı, who have already entered the system for the QA. Mr. Arslan, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0162par0015	Mr. President, tomorrow is Teacher's Day. First of all, I sincerely congratulate all our teachers on Teacher's Day and wish them success in their work. My questions are for the Minister of National Education: 1) Education requires continuity and continuity. That's why I don't think contract teachers are going to do it properly, and I think they're going to interfere with the training. When are you going to stop the contract teaching practice that will interfere with education and will not be able to provide adequate training? 2) We have thousands of teachers waiting to appoint in our country. When will they be appointed? When are you going to stop paying for teaching by not appointing so many teachers? 3) When will you stop receiving teachers with oral exams, as well as grades from the teachers you will appoint from the KPSS exam? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0163par0021	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0164par0022	Thank you, Mr. President. In Niğde district, 5,967 students are trained to carry. Necla Filibeli of Izmir built schools for Niğde. One of these schools is the school of Rebia Filipali, a beautiful school in the village of Kızılören. It has every opportunity from smart board to computer, daycare to library. Students from villages within three or five kilometers of Kızılören village are being taken to Çamarir district. It's 40 kilometers to Çamarı district. Can't the students in these villages be allowed to come to the Redberry school? Because school just opened, it's four or five years old and it's a beautiful school. Can't such a regional education prevent students from coming to schools and going further for education? Thank you, Minister.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0165par0025	Mr. Iron, please.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0166par0026	Thank you, Mr. President. After 56 schools, which were closed under the State of Emergency Act, 53 of whom were referred to as "pardon" and the schools were decided to continue. However, the teacher there, around 2,600 teachers, were not shown or tested successfully because their names were on the list at the teacher's exams. Mr. Secretary, will these victims be given any rights to teachers? Second: Classes do not open in Turkey, especially for disabled people. These kids can't go to school. We can't help these good students, but do you at least have the means to open a classroom for disabled students? It's the mula that's in charge of all this. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0167par0030	Mr. Bassman...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0168par0031	Mr. President, dear Regents, I congratulate my dear mother, Mehpare Basmacı, who raised many students with me first, and my primary school teacher, Sakina Dede, who I lost two months ago, and all the teachers' Day. Unfortunately, in our country today, our teachers, who are the architect of our tomorrow, don't get the respect and pay they deserve. Mr. Secretary, they asked Mustafa Kemal Ataturk: "Paşam, we're assigning the surrogacy wages, how much?" Mustafa Kemal Ataturk says: "Be careful, the teacher does not pass his wages." Now, my question to you is, do you think like Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, or do you think like the former AKP Minister of National Education, who compels teachers to do hunger, poverty, additional work? Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0169par0035	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0170par0036	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Last week, there was a perception that our government would deploy FISKOBIRLIZ to intervene in low nut prices. Is that true, or do you have such a study? If so, what are you still waiting for? Otherwise, I'd like you to inform the public. Another question, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Numan Survivor, is that we're going to make a healthy, permanent, permanent decision to visiting Army Agriculture Chamber officials. What are these decisions to make, and how will they apply? For your information. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0171par0040	Thank you, Mr. Bektasoglu. Those questions weren't for the Minister of Education, they were for the Minister of Agriculture.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0170par0041	Yeah.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0171par0042	Mr. Balbay...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0172par0043	My question is to Mr. Minister of National Education. In İzmir, the Anadolu Youth Association is writing a paper to the İzmir National Education Directorate and saying that it is holding a Syer-i Nebi competition, and the State National Education Director sends the conditions of this competition to all schools, and the Anadolu Youth Association says that it will give 4 full gold and 2 awards of gold to those who are first in this competition, 3 full gold and 2 gold prizes to 3 tenths. Can a competition like this be done here? It can be done, but is the Ministry of National Education incapable of such a contest? What purpose does the Ministry of National Education aim for by giving such a competition to an association, by sharing it in educational institutions across the country? In recent times, national education has received the biggest injury in the fight against ▪ The work you've done, the ones you've been suspended from... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the largest piece is at the Ministry of National Education. How do they share such an organization in education, which we do not know all the details of in their institutions?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0173par0047	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0174par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, tomorrow is Teacher's Day. I celebrate the days of all our teachers, bow before them with respect. I'm celebrating their day, but what are you going to tell them tomorrow, for God's sake? How will you face them? What do you say? You're going to say we're out of office, we're out of business with a decree? We made you a contract teacher, what more do you want? You're a teacher in this country, you can't think, and if you think about it, will you say you'll be locked up? What in God's name are you going to say to the teachers?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0175par0051	Finally, Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0176par0052	Mr. Secretary, I'm also... there's been a really intense public reaction and sensitivity about the expelled and suspended teachers, are they aware of that as the Ministry? What do they think of the ten-year, twenty-year-old students they've worked almost a lifetime with under the law... that I can't keep up with their labors, that they're going to be left in the hands of a court of law, and that they're going to be left in the face of such an export? Do the teachers who serve in the national education department have your Ministry's opinions, and are you informed about this when the decrees are issued under this law? These discharges and suspensions are based on what intelligence reports, what information? Because without any investigations, without any investigations, we're dealing with an app with a completely arbitrary savings of management.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0175par0054	Thank you. Now, to answer the questions, I leave the word to our Minister of National Education, Mr. Ismet Yilmaz Bey. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0057	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, maybe I'll start at the end. He says: "Why were teachers thrown out of the rule of law? " Now, Turkey went through a coup, and I think everyone forgot about the coup. This declaration, issued by the coupters, has been declared martial law throughout the country. The curfew has been declared. State martial law commanders have been appointed for the purposes of the administration of the provinces. State martial law commanders will carry out their duties in accordance with the powers and duties of the martial law. Military courts have been appointed martial law courts. The law enforcement forces will follow instructions given by martial law courts. All public-ordered appointments will be made by the council of the peace in the dorm. A council of peace was formed by the TSK in order to govern the state. Current execution has been relieved of duty.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0178par0060	Did the teachers do the coup, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0061	The council has been terminated. All governors are dismissed. Ankara, İstanbul, İzmir, Kayseri Governor and the mayor of the capital city have been appointed by the council of the peace in the dorm. All activities of political parties have been terminated. There's a declaration called, and after that, as if nothing had happened...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0178par0062	Did the teachers write that, Mr. Secretary? Did the teachers write that? Did the teachers do the coup?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0063	Here's an organized crime, an organized crime. Therefore, those who stand by this organizational crime, those who support it, whatever it may be, must always fulfill their responsibility to those who take public office in order not to deal with this nation again in a coup after ten years.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0179par0064	Did the workers do the coup?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0065	There is no criminal investigation here, and it is believed that you will not be able to fulfill your oath in Law 657 to be a public official, neutral, fair, civil servant.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0180par0066	Those who swear by the bench...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0067	It doesn't have to be a membership. It clearly states that these individuals must have access to the structure, formation or groups that have been decided by the National Security Council to operate against terrorist organizations or national security.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0181par0068	Who gave those unions permission, Mr. Secretary, and who gave those unions permission?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0182par0069	Did the teachers hit this country?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0070	I swear to God, you're protecting the coupgers, so to speak, you're protecting the coupgers, very clearly.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0182par0072	We're protecting the law, Mr. Secretary, the law.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0073	The Constitutional Court's decision, which I have said, does not constitute an investigation into a concrete act of criminal or disciplinary action, as well as a process in which public officials will form an opinion on whether or not they have any connection with a particular structure.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0183par0074	You're the one who's...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0184par0075	Education wasn't built on their orders, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0076	Look inside of them, from your education...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0184par0077	But, aside from that, 15,000 people are what you call.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0078	Well, now, if we've solved the other side, let's get to education you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0184par0079	He says, "Apart from it." 15,000 people.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0080	There are 120,000 members in my Ministry of Education, 120,000. I've been in touch with the president every time he's needed, and I've talked to him.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0184par0081	You got 15 grand, 15 grand!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0082	There has been no investigation into 120,000 members, but when the Turkish Armed Forces fight terrorism, we say, "Killer state," and we oppose such a struggle.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0185par0083	When you say "murderer state," do you get fired?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0084	...where he condemns those who make holes, where he condemns the martyrs of Mehmetçikin, for the sake of law, for the protection of the public order, where there is no security, there is no freedom. Not because a teacher who condemns the people who did this had ties to a democratic union...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0186par0085	Mr. Secretary, you're a lawyer.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0086	...that he somehow supports the terrorist organization...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0186par0087	Yeah, you're a lawyer, Mr. Secretary. You're a lawyer.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0088	Here, okay...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0186par0089	Isn't there an investigation, a trial, a law in this country?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0090	So, look, 120,000 union members have not been processed. There are people who have been cut off from here and are continuing their investigation. As soon as their investigation is concluded, those who have been found to have no connection with this structure, no support for the terrorist organization will be left back to our students in the education system again.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0187par0091	What about the victims, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0092	We don't think there are victims.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0188par0093	Congressmans, you asked the questions, Mr. Secretary answers; please don't interfere.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0094	We don't think there are victims. So we connected with terrorism. One other thing: we'll continue to appoint teachers in training, continue to appoint contract teachers. Look, do you think it would be possible for you to appoint a teacher with a contract? There are private schools in Turkey, private schools, each with contracts. ▪ Compromising teacher is very good at private school, but you can't do it in the government. If you say that again, it's not true. We're saying it very clearly.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0189par0096	The teachers are starving.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0097	Again, friends in Niğde will look at the incident, and they will make sure that the disciples in Çamarir will go to another place, not another 40km, but elsewhere. Look, the disabled have been taken care of for the first time in our time. As a social government, for the first time, being a social government...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0190par0099	Oh, Lord.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0100	Open up, Mr. Ozgur, I'm telling you very clearly, how much support was given to the disabled in the past, to the disabled in the family, and how much support is being given now? Look at the number that we used to take the disabled, with transport, if they can move, from their homes to the educational institution. In fact, there are events that, quite clearly, we send the teacher home if he has an obstacle that he can't get to school. I know very clearly... where Turkey came from, you have to see it.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0191par0102	Yes, you're right where Turkey came from. It's become a land of darkness. It's come here, Turkey.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0103	So, we lack it, we accept it, but we're definitely in a much better position than we used to be.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0192par0104	It's like we live in separate countries.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0105	Those who have a conscience, those who have a heart, know it and say it very clearly. Another: the teacher's financial rights. Look, it's very clear that the numbers don't lie, you make the comments, and I give the numbers, and whoever says otherwise, tell them. What was a teacher's salary in 2002? It was $470. For $470, you'd buy 552 litres of milk.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0193par0107	How much was the bread?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0108	I'll say it, too, if you wait.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0194par0109	How much was it, Mr. Secretary, how much was it?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0110	Now I don't just teach $2.628 - how much milk do you get now? You get 1,142 liters of milk.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0195par0111	Of course, you've lowered the price of milk for $1.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0196par0112	So you've also victimized the farmer.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0113	For God's sake, tell me, the teacher who buys 500 liters of milk is better off financially, or the one who buys 1,142 liters? Now, about the bread...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0197par0115	How much meat did he take? Tell me about the meat.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0116	For bread, it's $470, 15 extra hours, 165 lira a month, $635 a month. How much bread does he buy in 2002? 2.761 grams, now 3.461. Put your hand on your conscience and decide which teacher's finances are better? Is he the one who buys 2,761 breads or 3.461 breads per month? And I'll tell you what the gas is. You guys take the numbers, look. Gasoline in 2002...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0198par0119	And tell me about the meat; you order the milk, and tell me about the meat, Mr. Secretary, and compare it to the meat, and see what happens.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0199par0120	And compare wheat with gasoline, Minister.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0121	Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0200par0122	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0199par0123	Can you compare how many pounds of wheat and how many pounds of gas were being bought, for God's sake? And compare it to wheat.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0177par0124	I'll answer questions I can't answer in writing.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0200par0126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0201par0127	You sing the milk and tell me about the meat. People can't eat meat!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0202par0128	How many kilos of wheat did the farmer sell and gain? In 2002, how much is the wheat, how much is the diesel?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0200par0129	Congressmans, please, I beg you, you asked, you got the answer.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0203par0130	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0200par0131	Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0203par0132	Mr. President, when Mr. Secretary answered the question I asked, Mr. Horseman asked the same question.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0204par0133	You didn't ask?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0203par0134	...he accused us of defending the coupgers.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0204par0135	Yeah, no doubt about it.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0203par0136	It's an open taunt. I want a word on my behalf.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0205par0137	Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0206par0138	He said it first for Miss Coral.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0207par0139	For the same reason...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0205par0140	He didn't say anything about you, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0206par0141	First he told her, and then she told him.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0207par0142	He told my question, Mr. President, and we'll ask for it later.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0205par0143	Mr. Horseman, here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0208par0148	Mr. Secretary, you're defending the attackers. You're saying that. Everyone's laughing at you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0209par0149	Why?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0208par0150	Look, you're a minister.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0210par0151	If the President gives me a moment, I'll make it very clear if you're defending me.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0208par0152	Don't make people laugh at you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0210par0153	He's being kidnapped. You said...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0208par0154	Look, a minister...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0210par0155	Didn't you go to the Constitutional Court without being published in the official newspaper?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0208par0156	A minister doesn't pick on me from place to place.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0210par0157	Look, now, there, it's coming.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0211par0158	Minister, I promise later.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0208par0159	Calm down, a minister won't pick on you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0211par0160	Mr. Pitcher, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0212par0161	I didn't pick on you, you're picking on me.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0208par0162	That can only happen with a guilty conscience. I'm telling you as a physician, you're picking on me with guilt.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0213par0164	As a physician, look, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0212par0165	You will go to the Constitutional Court without being published in the official newspaper. This is not guilt. You will say, "This is not guilt."
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0208par0166	You're defending the attacks. You're saying that. For God's sake, who did the coup?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0213par0167	Aytug Bey, what does it have to do with medicine?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0208par0168	Did the teachers who were members of you make the coup?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0213par0169	Tell me about child psychology.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0208par0170	Did the teachers make the coup? For God's sake, Mr. Secretary, put your hands on your conscience. Why did you announce the state of emergency? You declared the state of emergency for the coup. Did these teachers do a coup, did the rectors do a coup, did the students do a coup? For God's sake, which one of these guys did the coup? Look, I mean, when you say something, you go down even further, and you say, "We don't think it's a victim. People are dying. You put them in jail, they're on the verge of suicide. No one hires the wives or children of the people you put away. I mean, you're a victim of both them and their families, Mr. Secretary. On the other hand, you're not investigating the political leg of the coup by not judging the coupgers. By not judging the coupters, the coupters, their political feet, you defend the coup, you clearly defend the coupters.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0214par0173	They're protecting the coupgers. They're protecting them.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0208par0174	You can't do this to my country, you shouldn't, we won't allow it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0215par0176	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0216par0177	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0215par0178	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary told me that Mr. Pitcher asked me the same question, so he picked on me in the first place.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0216par0179	So, he said you were defending the coupgers, too?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0217par0180	Of course, he said the same thing.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0215par0181	Of course, I say he told me directly, and he added the Horseman, and here he is.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0216par0182	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0217par0183	Why are you so hesitant when you come to us?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0216par0184	Come in, come in.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0218par0185	No, if he said otherwise... that's what he said.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0219par0186	You didn't ask any questions?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0218par0187	I did.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0219par0188	Well, I'm answering your question.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0218par0189	So, it's a question.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0220par0190	No, the answer to the question you're asking is one thing, you're defending the fighters. It's another thing.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0218par0191	E told us, Minister.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0221par0192	Answering the question you're asking, does it make you want to pick on me?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0220par0193	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0218par0195	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Minister of National Education is also a lawyer, but I would like to make it clear to you that he did not respond on the responsibility of a lawyer, that he was not read from the law. For one thing, in this country, unions, NGOs and citizens have the right to criticise government and politics. Mr. Secretary of State has officially stated that this is not a criminal investigation, they are standing here, here, here, so we have thrown them out. He didn't sound like the Minister of National Education, he spoke as if he were the head of a private military agency. Is that even possible? Without a single investigation into these teachers, these exports were conducted based solely on intelligence reports.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0222par0198	That's laughin' intelligence, that's the intel.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0218par0199	All of these will return after three years or five years from the European Court of Human Rights, Turkey will be sentenced to heavy compensation. If we're a state of law -- we're not a state of hearts; I'm stressing that, if we're a state of law -- these discharges and dismissals have to be done within the law. You can't make a decision that will paralyze people's entire lives with the KHK. When you get this, you'll get a law. In addition, another matter is that you defend the attackers. We don't defend coupters, the minister of a party that takes coupters out of its own system can't say that. When you said, "Darbe is a blessing." You said that favor to use it as a weapon for everyone who is not from the AKP. Now we know exactly what that gift is. This grace has been used as a tool to silence politics, opposition, civil society, the press, everyone, and I would like to stress again and again that I am deeply sorry for your statements and that tens of thousands of teachers are out of work at this moment, because of this exhilaration.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0223par0202	Mr. Secretary, you're welcome. Your position?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0224par0204	My place.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0223par0205	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0224par0208	Reverend President, look who they call General Staff imam. Is that correct? This structure...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0225par0209	The lecturer...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0224par0210	He's a teacher. He's in the national training department. Who did this coup? You say the teacher... Again, everyone knows that the group that did this is the strongest, the teachers.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0226par0212	Didn't you get it? Who took it?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0227par0213	Did you take it?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0228par0214	There's a lot of education in you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0229par0215	But the teacher is also a -- a regular assistant specialist -- the general staff imam, so there's no way of knowing who's at the bottom, so there's a secret structure like this. Everyone, one person at the bottom, one person at the top, they're in cells. What's done is right. Another is: are we judging the people who are fighting? Aren't we? The account... the indictments are prepared, the trial will begin in İzmir, and when Ankara starts very soon, it will be very clear who's behind the coup and who's behind the coup and who's standing next to whom.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0230par0218	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0231par0219	Mr. Secretary, how did the Fair Orphan get out of the country a hundred times?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0232par0220	Congressmans, I beg you. Mr. Secretary, you pack it up.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0233par0222	Sir, I thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0232par0223	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0234par0224	You read the memo in the first place. Mr. Secretary, please answer this question. You've relieved 10,000 people. Explain who wrote these martial law lists.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0232par0225	Now, members of lawmakers, on Article 1...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0235par0226	Mr. President, Mr. President, I have a request, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0232par0227	Mr. Special, I give you my word for a minute according to the Civil Code 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0235par0230	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't intend to raise the blood pressure, and it would be best if the Minister didn't. But on the other hand, we face a reality that is now said to be fighting a coup. A very harsh method is being used, at least using the following language is right: we are trying to create at least a few victims. If there are victims, we'll try to stop them. We are open to co-operation in identifying and resolving the victims. These are appropriate languages for a minister of a democratic state. We don't think it's a victim. If you say, you'll be taking over the rights of the baby in the womb of the woman who was taken out of the hospital when her husband was arrested and her health report was canceled. That's not the right approach. A minister, however, was taken care of for the first time in our time. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And then look at an old one, a... a political language. But the other, if you expect us to accept your hegemonical language above us, then, whether it be so or not, this group will rebel, and everyone who listens to you will rebel, and you will be wronged wherever you are right. You're already creating a lot of victims, but total denial can't be a state language, can't be a statesman's language. I'd like to invite Mr. Secretary to do so at least for further steps.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0236par0236	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0237par0239	He made it sound like I said what I didn't say, and I want to give him an answer. One, if the things that have been done, I've made it perfectly clear that we've cut off about 30,000 people in our Ministry. Is that correct?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0238par0241	Right.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0237par0242	So far, how many objections are there, or how many returned? 30 people, with change. If it was 1%, there'd be 300 people. That would be 1,300 percent. So there's no objection to 300 people. Everyone's three or five again, and you know as well as I do that you're open to dialogue, if there's any victims...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0239par0243	20,000 people in the Constitutional Court 920,000 people!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0237par0244	If it's wrong, if it's wrong about schools, it's wrong. It's about people... Look, human beings are what you call human beings; human beings are surprised, they make mistakes, but if you've done one thing 99 percent right, you're saying that if there's a mistake in 1 percent, we're open to correct them.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0240par0246	One percent is true, Mr. Secretary, 99 percent is wrong!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0237par0247	We've made this correction in schools, we've done it in people, we're open to doing it after that. It's very clear, but if you black out 99 percent for 1 percent, you're not doing your duty to God against this nation. Otherwise... Look, the eyes of this nation, the eyes of the people, are scales. That's because the two of them are getting mixed up. No, there's a beautiful saying that if there's anything, it's clear... that the people's eyes are scales. So, we're looking at what we're doing, and the people will decide, Reverend President.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0241par0249	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0242par0250	Mr. President, I'd like to ask you something now: After you promised me a minute under the Civil Code of 60, what clause of the Civil Code did you give the Minister the right to answer?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0241par0251	The government always has a say.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0243par0252	Mr. President, members of parliament, the Deputy Director of the Group is speaking according to what Article of the Civil Code?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0241par0253	Also, the Minister has the right to answer, just as your word is misconstrued, and there is an explanation for his statement that there are no victims. Besides, he's special to me.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0244par0254	Mr. President, you never listen.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0241par0255	Is there a place in the Civil Charter where each group promises to press the button when the deputy vice president presses the button? Show it to me! Is there? No. Please, I beg you. Everyone's gonna talk, and when I promise the Minister...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0244par0257	Mr. President, first of all, I stood up very respectfully, holding the Civil Code in my hand...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0241par0258	Yeah, okay.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0244par0259	...when you're talking to you, not the second singular, but the respect mode, where does he suddenly get angry and write to you? I've given it to you. It's not appropriate for a person to call me a second person or something, to do this job under the roof of this House.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0241par0260	I thought I called you guys.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0244par0261	It's beneath you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0241par0262	I thought I called you Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0244par0263	No, you said it clearly.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0241par0264	I know it's you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0244par0265	Secondly, I'll tell you what...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0245par0266	Mr. President, in what Article of the Civil Code is there to discuss with the Deputy Speaker of Parliament?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0244par0267	There's this, there's this.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0246par0268	Where do you have it?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0245par0269	Where are we arguing with the Deputy Speaker?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0244par0270	You can't...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0246par0271	Where do you have it? Where do you have it?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0245par0272	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You've been processed, Mr. President, you've been put into practice.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0246par0273	Is he saying he'll give it to you? He says he can. He says he can, doesn't he?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0247par0274	The president of the House...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0248par0275	Mr. President, will you listen? If you won't listen, I'll sit down.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0246par0276	Mr. Special, complete, finish, please. But please finish it.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0248par0277	I will, but for once, you can't be provoked by another group of vice presidents and another non-assigned vice presidents by interfering here.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0249par0278	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0246par0279	How? Every group is a vice president. Mr. Special, wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0250par0281	Two, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0251par0282	What do you mean, non-employee group vice president? What about the non-employee group vice president? Where does it say that in the Civil Code?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0246par0283	Dear Elitaş, please... Pack it up, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0252par0285	Mr. President, you know me, we know you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0246par0286	Yeah, exactly.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0252par0287	It's out of the question for me to object to a Minister's right to answer.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0253par0288	What have you been doing for half an hour?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0252par0289	But if you've appreciated the right to answer according to the Civil Code 60...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0254par0290	69.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0252par0291	...you're going to apply a minute of your time to us. No -- I don't mind three and a half minutes -- if you've given it to him according to 69, you'll have to make that promise to the Minister by offering him the time and the time. Other than that, the government can give information whenever it wants. If you say so...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0255par0292	You've been talking for half an hour!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0252par0293	...this is the Civil Charter 59. Look, if the Civil Code is 59, then all groups have the right to consider it. Other than that, there's nothing else.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0256par0294	Dear Private...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0252par0295	No, I'm not saying why is Mr. Secretary talking, but I'm telling you, one minute, three and a half minutes to the Minister... on what?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0257par0296	What are you talking about for five minutes?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0256par0297	Mr. Special, look, you've been talking for minutes. I've already given you a minute.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0258par0298	You've been talking for ten minutes!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0256par0299	Please, I beg you... look, we're trying to establish justice here. When you had some statements against the Minister, I said to the Minister, "Is it even because of lack of patience?" He said, "No, not at my place." He said, "I promised you my place." That's what I asked. He made a statement there. No problem. Thank you. Please don't abuse me.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0259par0300	Look, that's what I'm trying to tell you. If it is 60, you will set the time for it if it is on the stand. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0256par0301	Thanks. I told him, he wanted to get a word in edgewise. Master, I give you my word for a minute according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0260par0305	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, every time we do business and process, especially if we're government, we have to be fair. Based on the evidence, we actually need to do something. 30,000 people on Zan... we're now exporting 30,000 teachers from union membership.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0261par0307	Thirty-eight thousand.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0260par0308	Over 30,000. Look, everyone knows the nationalist Movement Party's attitude towards the ا. Everyone has had an affair, perhaps many people, many political institutions, but the National Movement Party has never had a relationship. However, here's a union on suspicion... a legitimate union. Yeah, you don't close this union, you pay the union's dues, as a state, as a government, you also send a general to schools in 2014, for these unions, your managers are forcing teachers to join this union -- look, we have so many examples -- and after that, because of this union membership, this is a member of the Union. That won't do, Mr. Secretary, that's wrong. Look, if anyone's using by Lock, if anyone's involved, throw them all away, we've got nothing to say to them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's not very good for management to export 30,000 teachers, 40,000 teachers, children without teachers, schools without books, without touching the top people involved, without saying anything to the council in the dorm. That's why the system's already locked down, nothing can be done, justice isn't working, after throwing away so many teachers.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0262par0312	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0260par0313	What was the harm in all this? If they're guilty, let's throw them out in six months. You just threw it all away, and the kids are without teachers, and most of them, most of them, were thrown out in the middle of nowhere. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0262par0315	Thank you, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0263par0316	Mr. President, a moment of your time...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0262par0317	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you a minute... Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0263par0320	Article 69, titled the right to explain, states: "The government, which has been attributed to it, has a different view of whether it has been taunted or asserted by the witness, can and will be able to give its answer. "
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0264par0321	The President will appoint his time, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0263par0322	Amenna. The President is in charge here. Thank you. He said, amenna.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0264par0323	But he will. Mr. Secretary, let's not enter the Civil Code race.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0265par0324	Let me put him in charge.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0264par0325	He's going to announce the president, sir.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0266par0326	Whatever the president says, we'll keep an eye on him.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0265par0327	Thank you. Congressmans, there are three motions on Article 1, I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "seven" in Article 1 of Law Bill 405 shall be changed into "three." Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ayşe Acar Başaran Dilek Öcalan Feleknas Uca Merkel Danış Beştaş Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first article of the main law bill (1/711) be removed from the draft text of the bill, and other substances be identified. Zühal Topcu Ruhi Ersoy Erkan Haberal Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu İzu Erdem Fahrettin Oğuz Tor The signatures of the other motion are: Gaye Beceler Ceyhun İrgil Mustafa Akadın From the heart to the heart of the Sibel Özdemir Selina Doğan Does the Commission participate in the same motions? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0267par0355	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0265par0356	Bursa MP Ceyhun Irgil has asked for a statement on the first motion of the same nature. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0268par0359	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in my speech on the department, I've been making suggestions on some of the issues of the Ministry of National Education, on the issues of the national education world, and I'm thinking of moving on. One of the things that comes with this agency's law is that one of the important changes is a change in financial investigators. We want to ensure a free inspection by investigators to make the control mechanism effective and qualified, that's all we ask. However, we recommend that the insistence on this issue be withdrawn from this bill by some new application, which will be detailed or challenging and subject to the interview. Other than that, one of the major problems was the Ministry's appointment as branch manager until June 10th. We say you assign the winning branch managers to the courts and follow the court's orders. As the other MPs have just pointed out, Mr. Minister is a lawyer and in previous Commission talks, he told us that I am a lawyer, that I apply court decisions. But we can say that the decision of the branch managers is not being carried out. Other than that, one of the major problems that we have with judicial decrees at this time is the problems with the students of universities that have been closed. You know, 65,000 students were deprived of their schools, taken from their teachers, memories, homes, and teachers overnight, and in a sense, they were subject to the greatest education exile in the history of the Republic, and they were scattered to the universities of Anatolia. Now, as a government, we put these students into those universities as special students. My concrete proposal to the Ministry right now is: let's end the special student status, let's make them noble students, so that the discrimination of these students will end with the confusion of these students in college, because this will cause a bigger problem in the future, and these children will go to a separation between themselves in a few years. One of the most important problems is that in the same state university, contrary to the principle of equality of the Constitution -- such as ITÜ, Aksaray, for example, at any state university in İzmir, these students pay between $15 and $30 -- to a group of students who attend the same course, who use the same order, who use the same campus for free, who are paid to these students. This is also contrary to the principle of equality of the Constitution. The Ministry of National Education here needs to find a solution to this wound. Because these people, these families, they chose a private school or a luxury hotel, but you bought them, put them in a boarding house or a government guesthouse. It is unfair to ask them for the same reward. We expect a fair and just solution to this, but more importantly, if you can't solve it, it's something about the Treasury. Let's at least make it easier for these people to pay. Six installments has been set by the EPA, and we're offering 12 installments because people's family budgets are annual, planned for 12 months. A very simple request, a simple suggestion, does not require law, is a matter that ends with a simple generalization of the Ministry. People are suffering, thousands of e-mails, texting. You guys get curses for no reason, families cry for no reason. Other than that, one of the other major problems is these kids' KYK loans and scholarships. You cut off most of their scholarships and loans. Why? Because you've been expelled from school. You've dropped out of school, you've had a break. Guys, come on, there's no such thing as a lack of conscience. These kids were stopping, they got up this morning, you shut down their school. If these are terrorists, then why are we putting them in other schools? Take these children, judge them all, put them in prisons, let the families be saved, let the children be saved, and you be saved. But somehow, not giving these kids credits, not paying their scholarships, means: "Don't go to this school." It means, "Leave this school." We're trying to talk him out of it. We're trying to intimidate him. If you do this to this youth... it's 65 thousand young people and their families, together with their surroundings... millions of people, hundreds of thousands of people... you can't possibly carry this plague. So, I, for one, am warning the Ministry once again, on this matter, on a human level, on a conscience. If I have time and opportunity again, I will address the suspended academics, the NGO, the expelled academics, the unemployed, and other articles related to other matters. Unfortunately, the Ministry of National Education is in such chaos and chaos, and it's in decline, and those five minutes, ten minutes aren't enough. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0269par0369	Mr. President, we'll request a roll call. Oh, it's the same thing...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0270par0370	Wait a minute... there's another motion for the same thing. Calm down. Heromarash MP Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, who wants to speak on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0271par0374	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the 1st article of Bill 405. I salute you. Dear lawmakers, the first article of the bill is about the number of deputy ministers of the Ministry to be seven. The Ministry of National Education is the ministry of Turkey's largest and most common rural organisation, with many general administrations, counseling, presidential office, independent agencies, important units such as Training Discipline. Seven assistants to tens of thousands of schools, hundreds of thousands of teachers, millions of students, such a huge ministry, are not too many. The error here is in reducing and multiplying the number of assistant undersecretarys. If you didn't need seven undersecretarys, why did you drop them in the past? What's changed in the last few days and turned seven? Dear lawmakers, an error is the transformation of control services into a sabbatical board. See, domestic and general audit services were first changed to municipal education inspectors in the local area, followed by a financial inspector. The ministry review board inspectors were first replaced as national education inspectors, and then why do we need 300 inspectors in the ministry? There is no need. The county has been appointed a financial inspector. Yesterday, 300 inspectors are not needed in the ministry. The chairman of yesterday's review board, the undersecretary, many of the other concerned bureaucrats are in place, but today 500 Ministry officials are asking for a staff of financial inspectors. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Undersecretary, what kind of conflict is this? It's not the right way to go. Tomorrow someone else will come in, send what you've taken to the Ministry with the law, take what's left in the province to headquarters, and that won't help the national education community or the nation. Another very serious mistake will be that the Ministry's financial inspectors are not taken from the teacher's source; you can also get administrative inspectors with a degree in social sciences, as well as these inspectors in the current structure. What's wrong is that all inspectors are to be taken out of teaching resources. He'll never be able to understand, understand, understand, understand the teacher, the student, the class, the parent psychology of the inspectors you're going to get for the first time. Those who don't swallow the chalk, who don't smell the smell of the student, who don't smell the teachers' room, who don't smell the class' air, who come to school wearing matching shoes, jackets, pants, who come hungry, who don't know the teacher, who don't understand the student, who never understands the student. How are you going to get your history teacher, your math teacher, your homeroom teacher, your music teacher? Education is the hardest job in the world, education is a profession, culture is a business, I did it, I did it. It's like selling tomatoes to a teacher. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, another grave error is the fact that inspectors, inspectors, inspectors from public institutions and institutions who have been transferred to the inspectors' staffs to be committed. Dear friends, National Education Inspectorship is not that simple. In advance, the requirement for taking the ministry inspector's exam was to become an eight-year senior, provided you are a minimum ten-year teacher or a three-year administrator. In order to become a primary school inspector, there was a minimum of five years of elementary school teaching, a high record, a condition not to receive severe disciplinary action. The state taught pedagogy winners for free, education psychology, education sociology, psychology, sociology, private education, general education, teaching techniques, practice. The people who made this rule had more knowledge, more experience than you. Look at the importance of yesterday's work, and look at what's been done today. You're going to have an inspector from EGO, from the ASKI, inspect the electricity and water meter of the schools? You're going the wrong way, don't do this. If you leave aside the distinguished inspectors who have studied for years, who have earned entrance exams from thousands of people, who have had years of experience as inspectors, and who have spent years of experience, if you don't protect the acquis, know that this is a subject's right, and you can't get rid of it. If you despise education, teaching so much, if you ignore compromise, you will not be able to capture the modern world, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0272par0382	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0273par0385	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0272par0386	Before we submit the same motions to your votes, there's a request for a roll call, and we'll do this roll call first. Mr. Basmacı, Mr. Kayan, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Güyük, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Gündoğdu, Mr. Yüncem, Mr. Topal, Mr. Bektaşoğlu, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Ybey, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Sarıbal, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Karbıyuk, Mr. Akar, Mr. Öz. Yeah, I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the Law shall be changed in the form of three. Coral Danış Beştaş (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0274par0402	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0272par0403	Adana MP Meral Danış Beştaş has asked for a statement on the motion. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0275par0406	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, you see here are 10 MPs who are now members of this Parliament. The two are co-Chairs, and the 10 MPs, including Mr. Idris Baluken, who you see here every day, are currently in solitary cells in prison, and therefore this Parliament is not free at the moment. This Parliament is a quarter of the will of the people of Turkey, which has been crippled by the coup of November 4th, is the will of the MPs in prison, as they call it -- along with their families. Therefore, let neither we nor you get the feeling that we are free. I'd like to say again that I hereby condemn the coup d'état of November 4th. In accordance with Article 677 of the newly published Law, the rights of the arrested and convicted for crimes committed within the scope of the activities of terrorist organization or organisations have been revoked, and the right to study has been issued. Here, especially when we look at the details, it is made clear that they will not be able to take the central examinations across the country, any educational and teaching institutions and institutions of public institutions or outside of the execution institution or to take the examinations. Dear lawmakers, this clause affects 50,000 prisoners and convicts currently in detention and detention. In Article 42 of the Constitution, it is ordained that no one can be deprived of the right to education and education. And under the provision of this decree, the 42nd Article of the Constitution is clearly violated, it's been imposed, and the rights of these prisoners and prisoners have been stripped of their right to study and education. Right now, after the July 15 coup attempt, the number has increased considerably more. So, the number that we're compiling in the total means that 50,000 prisoners and convicts will suffer from this arrangement. Now, what does that really mean? Meali, I mean, it's very clear, but to be clear, once again, it affects these prisoners, too. And we all know that according to another constitution of the Constitution, it is a fundamental principle that everyone will be considered innocent until the verdict is constant. Let's say those prisoners didn't get a year, two years, three months, or five months of centralized exams, other exams. What happens then, if they're acquitted, who can make up for it? There's no way, it's going to have irreparable consequences. And in a country like Turkey, especially after July 15th, it's become so common and so mass arrests that everyone's door can be knocked on at night, taken into custody, you're a member of a terrorist organization, so I'm taking you. As a matter of fact, journalists, academics, politicians are currently in prison on charges of becoming members of a number of different groups of terrorist organizations. Earlys are being signed in Turkey's history. We, for example, have been sued today for one of our MPs, and again, yesterday, about Writer Necmiye Alpay and Aslı Erdogan. Seriously, the first time I read it, I couldn't believe it. I said, "Are the prosecutors crazy?" How do you divide a government by writing an article? He doesn't look like a criminal. There are Supreme Court hearings, after all, we've talked about it a lot in the courts, we've discussed it a lot. Therefore, the scope of this is vast. Indeed, it will affect everyone, all the prisoners, in the future, to cause irreparable damages, and it is clearly discriminated against in the matter of the judicial clause. Her rapist, her killer, her drug user, can continue her education, but she can't continue her teaching in prison for the crime of thought. It's such a serious handicap. Therefore, we really care that this matter be corrected immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0276par0414	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 2 that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/71) We propose and declare the removal of the declaration of the President of the Board of the Board of Ministers and the declaration of the Board of Ministers (also referred to in Article 2) in Article 2 of the First Amendment. Zühal Topcu Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy Argi Erdem Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Now, I'm going to have two motions that I'm going to read, and I'm going to do it together: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the Law Bill 405 be removed from the bill. Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ayşe Acar Başaran Signed by the same motion: Mustafa Akadın Gaye Beceler Ceyhun İrgil Muharrem Male Sibel Özdemir Rises From Can Selina Doğan Mustafa Ali Balbay Does the Commission participate in the same motions? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0277par0440	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0276par0441	Muharrem Male, Çanakkale MP who wanted to speak on the first motion of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Man.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0278par0444	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 2nd Amendment of Bill 405, and I salute the High Assembly. Yes, tomorrow is November 24th. Happy Teacher's Day to all our teachers, free of ideas, free of conscience. Of course, we're dealing with an extremely painful picture in education. Unfortunately, we see the national educational institutions and schools as well as all the institutions of the state are being handed over to the Fetullah Gulen Community, a terrorist organization. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Secretary, 30,000 teachers were expelled in this process, the license of 28,000 teachers has been revoked, 17,000 teachers in the open, so a total of 75,000 teachers have been processed. When the school year began, 1.5 million of our students were unfortunately without a teacher. On December 29, 2015, the teacher was treated as a terrorist for participating in the union's one-day layoff. Mr. Secretary, in the meantime, I'd like to share something with you about Çanakkale. The head of the Department of Education in Çanakkale has been out in the open for three and a half months, and we have a national training director who knows that this has nothing to do with it, that he has nothing to do with it, that he has nothing to do with it, but I'm afraid he wants to keep it out in the open. Dear lawmakers, now, 75,000 teachers are suspended by identifying names, exporting, disposing of jobs, thinking that they're connected to the work, that they're connected to terrorism. What about his political foot? In 2014, what about the people who put out a BOLO on the governorates for ACTIF-SEN? President Erdoğan shared this on his return to Uzbekistan; he said that if all our friends had fully understood us during December 17th-25th, maybe it would not have been July 15th, but we had friends who didn't put dust on these scoundrels. So, when 75,000 teachers were able to identify names and release them, did they even process one of these friends, even one of them? Where are these guys? Where's his political foot? Where are the ruling feet of this Fetullah Gülen Community, the terrorist organization, that doesn't have a hole in every cell where teachers, prison guards, officers, police are being expelled, they're being expelled, they're being sent to prisons, they're being sent to prisons. Where are these guys? Where are those feet? How can you maintain justice in your conscience if this doesn't come out? Look, the general reason for the bill is that Turkey will come between its ever-growing economy and the world's top 10 economies, in general. Yes, the engine of economics, development is education, education is economy, that's right. But I'd like to point out that in your time, you know in G20, we've fallen to the 19th place. We were the 16th largest economy in 1997. In 1999, during the coalition government, we became members of G20, and at the moment we arrived today, we fell to the 19th place as a result of the single governments you conducted under the name of 14 years. Look, let alone get to the top 10, there's even a good chance we'll fall out of G20. Because until 2008, you continued to discipline structural reforms during the coalition administration, but then you chose a growth line based on construction and Ranta, where you brought the country to this point. The Republican People's Party for Structural Reform has been saying this out loud, and so does our vice president, Mr. Selin Sayek Böke, who is in charge of the economy. The structural reforms you're supposed to be doing are obvious. It's law, education and freedom. We all know where we come from in law and specificities. Unfortunately, we're also dealing with a very painful picture in education. If you don't bring an education system based on education, science, questioning, and if you don't change this painful picture, economics, development, prosperity, it's all going to be a dream, and I'm afraid you're going to miss out on the world's innovation economy, the knowledge society, the knowledge economy, the train. Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0279par0453	Diyarbakır MP Siegel Yiğitalp has asked for a statement on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0280par0456	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion. On my way here, I looked at the following numbers: over 30,000 teachers were taken and dozens of students were unable to study. While this is being done, on the one hand, with the support of institutions and parents, with the power and power of our own, we have closed down three schools that we have created with our own means, who are studying in their native language. Ferzad Fiddler had 238 students, 18 teachers, and had been teaching for three years. Now there's not a single sanction or the slightest healing solution to how those 238 students are going to be, what they're going to do. Whereas these 238 students there and the teachers there, it was an opportunity for those who taxed the state mechanism, were citizens of this country, but who also wanted to study with their native language by their own means. This also ignores the curriculum he wants to give himself through national education, while the same sanctions are applied on those who want to study in their native language. You'd think you were the ones who made the coup, you'd think the little boys there did it. Whereas it's obvious that they're the ones who did it. We all know the role of those who did the coup in themselves, in the mechanism, and it was done so that he saw the July 15 coup as a blessing from God -- which was truly a blessing to them -- and he used them as his own means, destroying everyone but himself. Today, our presidents, our deputies are under arrest, and in this parliament, 10 MPs, Parliamentary members are under arrest, but no one's heard from them. This is a blow to the will of the nation, a blow to the will of six million people. Every day, when you talk about locals and nationals, you call people to the street, and you mobilise all the resources of the state for it, and then hundreds of people die, lose their lives, you bless every day, but you terrorize the democratic demands of our MPs, the presidents. Everything about yourself is legitimate, everything else is criminalized, and you're discussing it through the concept of democracy. You're trying to legitimize his being in prison by telling him how beautiful prison conditions are. Those people, those friends of ours, they should be here right now, doing legislature activities, and this Parliament has to answer for that. All members of Parliament who are in this parliament must say that they must be brave, that they have immunity and that they must act on legislation throughout their immunity. If there is, if there is a problem with law enforcement, then the law will sort it out. But what I see here, unfortunately, is that people bless prisons, make the conditions of isolation in prisons seem perfectly normal, and on the same day, in the rape law, an unfortunate approach like the issue of law enforcement to protect rapists. When a person says no, it's so defended, it's actually so good, it's so good, it's so good. After you say it, it can immediately retreat with a sentence. Then he knows it's a rape law. But you should also be aware that if these friends of ours are in prison today, this Parliament, all members of Parliament, must sit down and fight for it. Today it will be yours, and tomorrow it will be yours, and no matter how you improve those prison conditions, perhaps in the future you will enter those prison conditions, and we will defend your rights again, and we will say, "Today, when the congregation operates on us, make sure that we own the victims of the congregation's operation, and that we will defend the abuses that will be done on you the day after tomorrow, because our democratic understanding and culture command us to do so. We are just a party fighting through democracy through peace and only through democracy, and I would like to say the last thing I want to say is that a wise man like Ahmet Turk said: "Let peace come to this country and hang me in Taxi Square the next day." A person who says that now has been in custody for three days. He's 74 years old, and we know all about his health. I also have to say that Ahmet Turk and dozens of people here have been working overtime. There's got to be a conscience, a law. It's supposed to be called a law, so why is Ahmet Turk in custody, still in custody, and why isn't he being deposed? Even that's not asked, even that's ignored. You are saying that if we ignore it, it is as if this work would not be done, as if these feelings would not be experienced, and people would have no anger. There is no such thing. Go, look at Diyarbakır, look at Siirt, look at Van, there's a lot of anger. And people see this very well: my will is mortgaged. It says, "Well, it's going off in the minds." This breakup is not good for all of us, we can all fall for it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] When we told you about Cizre yesterday, I hope you won't remain silent from now on, thank you, everyone.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0281par0464	I submit the same motions to your votes...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0282par0467	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0281par0468	Before that, there's a request for a roll call. We're doing roll call. Mr. Basmacı, Mr. İrgil, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Man, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Gündoğdu, Mr. Yüyük, Mr. Topal, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Gektancıoğlu, Mr. Öz, Mr. Yjör, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Sarbal, Mr. Doğan, Mr. Sarıhan, Mr. Karbüpıyik, Mr. Demir. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0283par0473	You can sit here carefree, shamelessly while 10 MPs are in prison!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0284par0475	None of your business!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0285par0476	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0286par0477	Know your place!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0287par0478	Mr. Heroalp, please, what's going on?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0288par0479	How do you know? Sit down, you rascal!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0289par0480	I can see that.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0290par0481	What's happening to him? What's happening to him?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0291par0482	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0290par0483	Jesus Christ. What kind of language is that?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0292par0484	You're rude!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0293par0485	You're the dirty one!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0294par0486	Mr. Yigitalp, members of the law, what happened, what happened? What happened suddenly, Mr. Heroalp?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0293par0487	There's unemployment all over this community, economic crisis. You can sit that easily. We all live here.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0295par0488	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0296par0489	You sit here every day while the PKK sheds blood.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0297par0490	Mr. Heroalp, what's going on? Please take your seat. Please, Mr. Heroalp... [[Investigation continued with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Now I'm going to read the other motion...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0298par0498	Sit down, sit down, sit down!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0299par0499	You sit down, you sit down!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0300par0500	What are you yelling at here for?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0301par0501	Mr. Heroalp, what's going on? Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0299par0502	We're struggling, what are you doing?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0302par0503	Is it up to you to interfere with my group? Sit down.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0303par0504	You have no right to shout here. Why are you yelling here?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0302par0505	There can't be a tone like that. He can't get out of there and tell my group what move to make.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0304par0506	Didn't you get the answer from Diyarbakır? ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose the removal of the chairmanship of the Board of the Board of Ministers and the declaration of the Court of Appeals, which is included in Article 2 (J) under Article 2 of the original Law Bill (1/721). Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu (Hatay) and his friends
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0305par0510	The whole country's crying for blood.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0306par0511	Mr. Heroalp, I'd like to call the speaker to the stand now, please. Why are you all standing up and yelling at this group when nothing's going on? What happened? You made your speech, sat down. Congressmans, I beg you, please...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0307par0513	Mr. President, are we here to listen to the game or to make a law? Why are we playing games?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0306par0514	Yeah, they listen, they listen outside. None of your business!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0307par0515	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The door opens, there's the noise of the match... Yeah, it's a shame! Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0306par0516	Are you going to interfere with the congressman outside? Take your seats.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0307par0517	The people in the mine are still under the wreckage. You're making game noise here. Shame on you! You couldn't get it out of the wreckage.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0308par0518	It can't be that easy, those young men have gone to the ground.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0306par0519	Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0309par0522	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0306par0523	Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu demanding a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0310par0525	You have no conscience, no conscience! People are still in a cave-in in Siirt.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0306par0527	Congressmans, please... let's respect the Hati.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0310par0528	Call out to your own group, Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0311par0529	Everybody's watching the game, and then they come and vote, and that's it.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0312par0530	None of your business! None of your business!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0311par0531	We don't care!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit07spe0313par0532	Look, please, I beg you, I beg you... I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0313par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 405. The commission and the government are in place. The motion on Article 2 was sealed. Now, I would like to call Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoglu to the stand to discuss a motion that the Commission and the government disagreed with. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0314par0008	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action on Article 2 of Law Bill 405. I salute the Veteran Assembly. Dear lawmakers, with the matter referred to, the chair of the Court of Justice and Control shall be replaced by,,,,,,, the General Directorate of Law Services shall be appointed and shall be organized according to this. Mr. President, the honorable lawmakers, who have the pride and consciousness of the Turkish nation, have absorbed our spiritual and cultural values, have developed the ability to think, perceive and solve problems, are open to new developments, the development of entrepreneurial, democratic, cultural, virtuous and religious generations has to be the primary goal of our national education policy. However, since the AKP came to power in 2002, unfortunately changes have been made to undermine the basis of the Turkish national education system. In fact, the Turkish national educational system has been used as a test board and is still being used. During the 14-year period of power, six ministers changed several curriculumes and systems, and the ministry's organization structure was changed according to its personal opinion by each incoming minister. The ministry has gone to a new organisation and organization, and the current experienced staffs have been disabled, depending on the individual. The titles of 2,483 inspectors, including 1,243, have been changed five times in the last six years, according to the number of financial inspectors given by the ministry, according to this bill. 2.483 inspectors will only serve as minister's financial inspectors, although the remaining 1,983 have been stressed that their rights are reserved, are still unclear as to what and what they will take on. Together with this bill, there will be problems with both the lack of ministry financial inspectors and what the task distribution will be, and we would like to avoid these problems with our motion. It is intended to resume its role as a financial inspector, by re-enactment of Guidance and Control. Our motion was made with this intention, and we want our motion to be supported. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as we all remember, in 2014, there were studies on identifying school principals and numerous managers who were close to them in power, and the vice principals were appointed managers. As a result of this practice, many school principals have been victimized and, unfortunately, they have not been able to return. Before the changes had been made, the appointment of executives could not be appointed as allies because there were sound legislation; it was the coming of those with knowledge, skill, integrity, who sweated their way through the exam. Administrators who came to a position with their teeth and nails and hard work and knowledge have been taken down. These events have not even occurred during the times of the coup. So, with the law mentioned in Turkey, 16,000 managers were tried to be replaced, 8,000 of them were taken out of the office with a failed score, and in a sense, they were executed. Even today, the spirit of the new door, which we call the spirit, is still in violation of the spirit of the school principals, who are not guilty and are not guilty. Teachers and school administrators, whose love of country and nation is reflected in their profession as if they were not learned from July 15th, are being persecuted and persecuted on their own grounds. One example of this, Mr. Secretary, has occurred in my own knowledge. Unfortunately, we have two school principals in Burıkhan, and Kumlu district, who have been dismissed for no reason, simply because they are in love with the country and the nation, and I will give their names to you shortly. It's not possible for us to accept that. Dear MPs, the 24th of November is celebrating Teacher's Day, and I pay tribute to the High Council.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0315par0015	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0316par0017	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0315par0018	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... We'll do it with electronics. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected. I submit Article 2 to your votes: those who accept the Article... those who refuse... the Article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 3 that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 3 of the main law bill (1/711) in the following way. Zühal Topcu Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy Argin Erdem Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Saffet Sandzaklı The following (c) bendi (c) was added to the first joke of Article 9 (i.e., Article 9) of Article 3-652. 5/6/1986 and according to vocational education Act 3308, provide candidate apprentices, apprentices, and general and professional training of the masters." Now, I'm going to have two motions that I'm going to read, and I'm going to do the same thing, and I'm going to do it together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 of the Law Charter 405 be removed from the bill. Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ayşe Acar Başaran Dilek Öcalan Feleknas Uca Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir The signatures of the other motion are: Gaye Beceler Mustafa Akadın Candan Üceler Sibel Özdemir Selina Doğan Senal Sarıhan Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0317par0049	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0315par0050	Ankara MP Şenal Sarıhan will speak on the first motion on the same property. Here you are, Mr. Sarihan.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0318par0053	Mr. President, my dear fellow clerks, dear fellow writers and paralegals, we are currently discussing a bill on the education system of the Ministry of National Education. What substance is added? It's a clause in which apprentice training is taken into the mandatory area of education. When there are so many problems in the general education system, and the subject of apprentice becomes part of mandatory education, we see that our children's willingness to become apprentices is more likely to increase, not to gain a profession, but rather to be able to immediately leave their education behind, both in the conditions of our country and in the construction of scientific education, as well as in the course of our education. But in general today, I would like to look at the situation in which our educational system is in, and I would like to share my thoughts with you. It is clear that for 14 years, the field has turned into a sabbatical and is in a crisis. The policy of raising young people loyal to religion and spite resulted in the fetullahists wrapping up all state institutions like a web of spiders. The results of the government entrusting a major task, such as education, to the private schools of the congregation, to the foundations, put us all in a state of distress. Unfortunately, the government is now trying to give all the resources of the state, which is taxed by the people, to TERGEV, and to other family foundations. The entire education system is almost imam-approved. For a hundred and seventy-five years, many educators have tried to destroy what remains of our secular education system. Now, I just wanted to ask Mr. Secretary a question, but for some reason, our president didn't see it and they wouldn't let me ask any questions. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to present a few questions and evaluation. Mr. Secretary said some things, you know, they're gonna be closed down, the gendarmes are gonna be shut down, the institutions are gonna be closed down or something, and I thought he was talking about what happened today. I mean, we're in a situation today where the whole system's already blocked. Turns out he was talking about what the council of peace was going to do in the dorm. Madam Secretary, there's nothing more to be done today than what the council of peace will do at home. You used another sentence, and you said, "The numbers don't lie." Now I'm going to present the numbers that don't lie to you, the numbers that have been identified one by one. You said 30,000 teachers, no, not 30,000, but 38,413 national education staff. Currently, 76,659 officers, civil servants, were expelled from the public with decrees 672, 675 and 677. I've divided them, I've multiplied them, 38,246, from the public, 38,413, teachers. Now, is it true that the area that's been emptied of these teachers is filled with new teachers -- of course they have a love of teaching -- how it will create a problem in teaching, and how it is legally done with these people? I'm a teacher's lawyer. I just want to remind you that when I retired from teaching, my home was passing through the garden of my school, and I was passing by to deliver my little child to my mother, and I swear to you, I would smell class and cry. I'd miss my class, miss my students. Now, you've made 40,000 teachers miss their children. The absence of a legitimate and healthy legal investigation into them, the absence of administrative investigations, the fact that at least they could be suspended for a moment, that you could make a proper trial, that was a real victim, and nothing can cover that. Really, tomorrow, the teachers won't be happy about Teacher's Day. The way to create the right joy for them is by building an education based on scientific education as well as by establishing procedures based on law, justice, and right. He'll pay his respects, thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0319par0062	Thank you. İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir has asked for a statement on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you are, Timberson Demir.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0320par0066	Mr. President, valued lawmakers are the area of education, which has been most interfered with during the AKP administrations, and most of all -- if necessary -- long for success. It's almost like a sabbatical, and national education really takes seriously the children's sighs. With an uninhibited and unintelligent education system, I'm afraid there's nothing more to be done than a double route. The item I am now promising is professional technical education, and the changes made during the AKP administration have always been in the interest of capital. ▪ Children's labor has been exploited and seen as a cheap labor force in businesses under the name of internship. Today, the change planned to include apprentice training as a mandatory secondary school will cause the exploitation relationship to deepen further. I, now, would like to return to this House, and I would like to call you, indeed, a little common sense, a little looking around. An assembly without Mr. Idris Baluken, who was arrested and charged with being a member of the court, is empty and embarrassing. Are you looking at that picture, Mr. Group Vice Presidents? Do you always look at the person you see, the person you talk to? I wonder how you'll look at that person when he gets here.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0321par0070	Have you ever looked at faces at martyr funerals?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0320par0071	He's already been held hostage because he's one of the most fundamental elements of this House. In his person, I salute all our arrested deputies and co-chairs with the confidence that they will be free as soon as possible. You call it law and independent judgment, don't you? I'll tell you a few examples of how that judgment can be independent, how it can be independent with you: Minister Omar Çelik says: "The MPs are being arrested." There is a process being carried out about those who support terrorism. You can say "It's true," all of you. Minister Nihat Zeybekci: Taking over those duties the nation has given, probably from places they've been ordered so far. You went and acted as you were ordered to support all activities of the terrorist organization. Yes, Burhan Lamb: All the statement of HDP MPs clearly supports terrorism. Erdogan: The aim of these fools is to put Turkey into trouble. None of these actions, none of the statements are related to the job and the title of the MP. If you act like terrorists, you'll be treated like terrorists. It is our primary duty to make those who betray their own country answer to the judgment. Now, which judge, which prosecutor, who listened to those words, do you think will make an independent, fair trial, which prosecutor, which judge?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0322par0078	Is that a lie?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0323par0079	Lies!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0322par0080	Of course not.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0324par0081	Yeah, it's a lie. Even if it's true, you can't say it, you can't tell it, you can't instruct it.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0325par0082	You commit the crime of tampering with the judiciary, and you do it now, and so do those who say so. If it were an independent and fair trial, you would be the first to be tried.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0324par0084	And then there's the lie...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0326par0085	No way!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0325par0086	Those days will come, and you will be judged, but we will say: "There is a need for independent and just judgment. I'll read to you today from the news. Look, what your former MP says is that there are four hours left with the family of Ahmet Davutoglu. When they ask about the Vatican, they say: "Interresponsibility dialogue has been made official by the President of the Vatican, the Prime Minister. It was an attempt to do this by the state's hands. Mr. Erdogan, I think he's been supporting this for ten years. You're looking for a hit man. Who did this?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0327par0088	Is that a lie?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0325par0089	Did you do it, or did the ones you walked along the same road with? A little bit of lsana, a little bit of respect. If 10 AKP MPs were arrested here, our position would be different, we are advocates of freedom, and we will continue to be. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0328par0093	I submit the same motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 3 of the main law bill (1/711) in the following way. Saffet Sandzak and his friends The following (c) bendi (e.g.) was added to the following (e.g. 5/6/1986 and according to vocational education Act 3308, provide candidate apprentices, apprentices, and general and professional training of the masters." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0329par0103	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0328par0104	Absorption on the motion, MP Saffet Sandzakli. Here you go, Mr. Sandzak.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0330par0107	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, tomorrow, November 24th, we'll understand Teacher's Day, and we'll have done a little bit of what we owe our esteemed teachers. Teaching is a sacred profession, a blessed school. The teacher is the light of blind darkness, the cure of dried consciences, and the relentless enemy of ignorance, prejudice. For forty years, I will be a slave to him who taught me a letter. The teacher is the subject of his blessed call. Without them, there will be no future, no future without them. Whatever we say to our teachers, it's incomplete and inadequate. It is our duty to listen to our teachers, to address their problems, to pull them out of the social, economic, and professional straits they fall into. If the teacher is not happy, the student is desperate, the parents are restless. In today's country painting, no one can claim that our teachers are happy and satisfied. Especially with the coup attempt on July 15th, it has become clear to us who fell into the hands of the national education and what kind of captivity they were in. By now, over 30,000 teachers have been discharged from the service, more than 17,000 teachers have been suspended, and nearly 7,000 of them have returned to their post. The number of teachers who have been exported and returned to work is very limited. I would like to make it clear that the traitor will not be a teacher, nor will the true teacher be a traitor. Of course, those who are found to be guilty of the fight against ▪ should not be taken into account by aiding and abetting this network of betrayals, and by a parallel hierarchical network, which law and national conscience does not approve of. Those who poison our future children, those who operate in favor of a terrorist organization by violating the teaching profession, must pay the ultimate price for their actions. No matter who tries to invade the minds and hearts of our little cubs by actively working for a terrorist organization, forgiveness will be considered an impossible crime. The teachers who have been expelled or suspended on the grounds that they are from the PKK have betrayed the trust, and there will be no other explanation. However, it is wrong to stamp on a teacher, to deprive him of his dignity and bread, simply because he worked in financial matters with a certain bank because of the obligation and because he worked in some classrooms. While we do not approve, it is clear that choosing one of the local legal unions does not make an officer guilty. If a teacher is involved in the actions and is determined to be a member of the organization with concrete evidence, he must pay for it, but with false reports and complaints, it would be contrary to the principles and rules of the rule of the legal state to expel teachers or officers who have no organic ties with those who do not have a basis. Such an injustice would indicate that we will never be the mute devil, so we will not be silent in the face of injustice. Last October, 18,500 contract teachers were appointed and 30,000 additional teachers are on the agenda next February. According to us, there should be no more unassigned teachers, and this ordeal should be finished at the root, but the taking of contract teachers through the interview system has also victimised many of our teachers who scored higher than KPS. The exclusivity of the questions asked during the interview and the examination of political preferences are extremely upsetting and has led to infinitiveness. Contracted teaching is an unsecured system. As the party, our thinking is that the contractual and temporary teachers should be transferred to permanent staffs, the review system should be met under one roof, the closure of problems due to rotations, the resolving of the problems related to the appointment of apology groups, the raising of additional tuition fees and education compensations, the increase of training allowances, the teachers' access to 3600 additional indicators, the establishment of the promotion system by merits and achievement criteria, the strict compliance of the judicial decision in the national education, the hearing of the expectations and demands of retired teachers, the improvement of their teaching profession, and the level of our teachers' economic status, which I expect to improve, and declare our commitments to the level of their economic status, and that they are worthy. Let our teachers be welcome, the nationalist ulterior motive will always be there for them, under any circumstances. With these feelings and thoughts, I congratulate you on the 24 November Teacher's Day of our esteemed teachers who have been serving patiently and steadfastly all over my home. I ask the grace of God to our fallen teachers, especially Ghazi Ghazi Mustafa Kemal, who went to eternity and died in terrorist attacks. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And a special thank you to my elementary school teacher Zahide Hodja and Master Eyup and all the teachers who helped me in my teaching life.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0331par0119	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on the fourth article. I'm going to read these proposals in the same context and then I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of the Law Charter 405 be removed from the bill. Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ayşe Acar Başaran Wish Ocalan Feleknas Uca Ayhan Bilgen Other proposal holders of the same nature: Zühal Topcu Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy İzu Erdem Muharrem Varlı Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Other proposal holders of the same nature: Gaye Beceler Mustafa Akadın Candan Üceler Sibel Özdemir Ceyhun İrgil Selina Doğan Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0332par0144	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0331par0145	Mr. Special, am I making you read the reason?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0333par0146	Yes, the reason is...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0331par0147	I'm reading the reason: The decision to leave vocational training of candidates apprentices, apprentices, caliphs and masters in the area of responsibility for the Department of Lifetime Learning is more appropriate. The education and experience of vocational students under the influence of scientific and technological advances in their field will not be limited to school life. Therefore, the current arrangement for vocational education must be maintained. Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen on another proposal of the same nature. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0334par0153	Mr. President, the motion I'm talking about is in fact about the amendment of an amendment to Article 12 of Article 9 to Article 12. In the National Bureau of Education, the mission related to apprentice, phalanx, mastery has been transferred from a general directorate to another directorate. But I'd like to share a few minutes with you about how the educational system is so problematic and how it creates a human being. Turkey has been discussing child abuse for a week, and according to official figures, over 15,000 cases have been reflected in the court for child abuse in a year, according to the Justice Department's own figures. We all have to be ashamed, we all have to be blushing. We're talking over 15,000 child abuse cases, 15,000 pain, 15,000 dramas. So, what educational system do these people grow from? So it doesn't end with building, so it doesn't end with the change of the minister in power, and it doesn't end with the change of government, let alone the minister. If we have a human-type problem, this Parliament will have to look at itself first. There are a lot of social media messages that have been coming to me since the evening hours, and they say, if you have the courage to investigate something -- I mean, if you want to investigate something -- why don't you make a motion in Congress to investigate the events of October 6-7? Dear friends, this is what happens when a congressman lies openly on this stand. And the people who listen to him take credit for that lie, and then they share it on social media, like they know something, and they write it. We made a motion, you refused. Why can't one of you come out and say, "You made a motion, but we refused?" Why can't you say that? What right do you have to deceive this community, to lie so openly to this community? They ask the Prophet who is a Muslim, does he commit adultery? They say, "Does the Muslim commit adultery?" They remain silent, counting other crimes, one by one, but when they ask him, "Does he lie?" He says, "He never lies." He says, "He never lies." Dear friends, we have a very clear, very clear picture. The teachers who were discharged today were members of another union before setting up ACTIF YOU, weren't they? They weren't yours, they weren't yours, they weren't yours, they weren't yours, they were members of another union. For ten years, you've been paid by their dues, and you've never known one of them to be a terrorist, have you ever felt one? Well, there are so many inspectors in national education, such a large terrorist organization, tens of thousands of people organized at the Ministry of National Education, teaching our children, but we haven't been able to identify any of them as terrorists. Dear friends, the painting is very clear. They were good when they joined your unions, but when they formed another union, they became dangerous. In three general elections, two local elections, not only voted in the referendum, but they were good when they organized the polling staff and flew voters, but they were bad when they started voting for parties other than you. Dear lawmakers, if a country is morally corrupt, we have no right to complain to the public if we're out here watching football while nine people are in ruins, and then we come back here and vote. At least for their pain, you're up here doing martyrdom literature, but you can't even admit that there's a responsibility to the state that can't get nine people out of the wreckage. Because you know who owns that mine, and we know who owns it, and you know who their official partners are, and we know who they are, and you know who their secret partners are, and we know that, and we know that. But we're looking at another very clear picture. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0335par0161	Say it, say it!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0336par0162	Explain if you know!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0334par0163	You know the company, don't you? Well, you can explain it to me. If you know, you explain. I'm in the prosecution, I'm the opposition, so let's have a minister of yours come out or a commission come out, let's see who's there, who's in the company's partners. But, on the other hand, if a government can't get nine people out in four days, you should be ashamed. You shouldn't be talking to me, you should be ashamed.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0337par0164	Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0334par0165	But, above all, you're handing over a Uygurist leader named Abdulkadir Kıçan to China, shame on you!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0337par0167	Over the accident, over the pain...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0334par0168	You're trying to teach us nationalism under this roof. Do you realize you sold Crimea to the Russians! You're not ashamed of that, are you?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0337par0169	Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0338par0170	Speak properly, like a man!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0334par0171	Get in Shanghai!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0339par0173	Adana MP Muharrem Varlı will speak on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0340par0176	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 4th Amendment. I salute you all. Tomorrow's Teacher's Day. Here we celebrate Teacher's Day, all of our teachers' Day. The work they put into this country, the work they put into the people of this country, is very important. We have to confirm how many rights they have from here. Again, tomorrow, in the coming days, I wish our students the best, God help them. Of course, there's been a lot of talks here about the July 15 coup attempt and about teachers, who have been suspended under the following decree of the law. From this fetullahist formation, the nationalist movement of this terrorist organization has suffered the most damage and we have been harmed. In 2011, when our friends were entered into their bedrooms and filmed on the cameras, there was an intervention in private life. When it was said, you, many of your friends, almost came into position to beat us up. In fact, some of your friends may have been pleased with it, but they even used it in the area of the rally. We've been through a lot. They didn't make one of our friends principal, they didn't make one of our friends chief of police, they didn't give one of our friends an important position. Who protects the people, God damn it, who stands behind the person, God damn it! But for very simple reasons, don't make people members of a terrorist organization, my dear friends. Look, Mr. Secretary, we're all Muslims, we're all believers; we all have our responsibilities in this sense in the future. He went to the school for very simple reasons that affect his entire family. Don't make him a member of a terrorist organization because he went to school. Until more recently, until July 15th, you gave the students of these schools money as Ministry, support. I'm all for trial until the end of the guilty, or even seven floors beneath the ground, and as the National Movement Party, we support it to the end, but don't victimize people for too simple reasons, for God's sake. You say: There is no victim. There is a brother. They come to us, they tell us, people we know, people we know. My friend, who I've known for 30 years, has been suspended because his child went to their school. Is that a good thing? I mean, on the other side, the Bank, the Asian lawyers, they're out there. I mean, come on, guys. Look, all of these sacrifices will come back tomorrow, and they'll find us, it's a shame, it's a sin. Didn't the Ministry of National Education open these classrooms? Didn't the Ministry of National Education open these schools? Hasn't this bank been established by the official corporations of this country? You didn't close it after 17-25, then, brother? You should've turned it off. If you had turned it off, these people wouldn't have been victims. I mean, for God's sake... Look, I deal with a lot of people from Adana who come from different parts of Turkey. Yesterday, a brother from Maraş was discharged from his post in May only when TMSF was taken over by the Bank in May -- a friend of ours who had $125 billion in money in Akbank in May -- had actually invested in Asia -- was expelled because he had invested money in the month of May. Is that a good thing? Don't do this. Mr. Secretary, fight the government, fight the terrorist organizations, we're behind the legitimate government to the end, but please, let's stop the victims. Is God the answer? It's a shame, it's a sin. People are accused of being members of a terrorist organization; see, that's a very harsh statement, a very heavy accusation, a stain they'll be stained with for a lifetime. He's being suspended. They say he's also an agitator. After that, they start. The police in the same residence are not talking to the child of the suspended police, Mr. Secretary, they live in the same residence, the children who go to the same school are not talking to the children of that other policeman. Won't he come to you, my dear friends? For God's sake, raise your voices on this.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0341par0184	He's coming, he's coming.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0340par0185	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0342par0187	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 5 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 5 of the main law bill (1/711) in the following way. Zühal Topcu Erkan Haberal Ruhi Ersoy İzu Erdem Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Baki Simsek The following joke has been added to Article 13 of the provisions of Law 5-652. ==Episode 5/7/2004==The first joke (d) of Article 5/7/2004 of Metropolitan Municipality Law 10/7/2004 (d), dated 3/7/2005, and the 1st joke (c) of Article 5393 of City Law (c) and the 1st article 22/2/2005 of Article 5302, is not applied to the institutions that provide special housing services for students (a). Institutions that provide private housing services for students are granted a business and work permit by the Ministry. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this joke are determined by regulations." Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 5 of the Law Charter 405 be removed from the bill. Çağlar Demirel Sibel Yiğitalp Ayşe Acar Başaran Dilek Öcalan Feleknas Uca Mehmet Ali Aslan The signatures of the other motion are: Gaye Beceler Ceyhun İrgil Mustafa Akadın From the heart to the heart of the Sibel Özdemir Selina Doğan Mustafa Ali Balbay Barış Y Friend Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0343par0216	We disagree.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0342par0217	Mr. Ilican, I promise you one minute according to the Civil Code 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0344par0221	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to share a story, a sadness. Oğuzhan Karaca, of Erzurum Longderi, was killed by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) terrorists in Hakkari Şemdinli. May God have mercy on him, and his place will be in heaven. I damn those who committed this terrorist act, damn it!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0345par0223	Ask Ayhan Bilgen.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0346par0224	God rest his soul. On the first motion of the same nature, İstanbul MP Barış Yykya will speak. Here you are, my friend.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0347par0231	Dear lawmakers have been granted permission, registration and control duties from municipalities to the Ministry of National Education and then to governors, as well as to institutions providing special housing services for students with the 5th article of the bill. What does that mean? That means that, like here in the classrooms, the municipalities will be bypassed again. We know that almost all of the institutions that provide private housing for students in our country belong to the congregations. In the past, the name of this congregation was taken, and now it has arrived. Instead of the Fetullahists, the Rangers are now being replaced, and every organization of the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Health, is being handed over to these cults. With this change, what is it designed to be? With this change, in fact, the municipal housing service for poor children is particularly intended to be eliminated and the services provided by those municipalities, especially by social democratic municipalities, are intended to be carried out by the congregations. The AKP's government has not learned a single lesson from it, so it is also seen that it has replaced it. To this day, poor children have always been pushed into the arms of the congregations by power. We've seen what kind of suffering they cause over the years. Clearly, the same wrong policy continues, as the government has learned no lessons from them. In these institutions, children are again vulnerable, and they will continue to live in conditions that are not subject to any kind of supervision. Look, not much, but 20 days ago, Mr. Secretary, in your responsible school, Adıyaman, Adıyaman, Adıyaman, Gerger County, Adıyaman Adıyaman Adıyaman Adıman Adıralı, both at Martyrs High School on July 15, and at Adıyaman Gerger-Hatip High School, 74 children were harassed by 14 public officials. 13 civil servants have been suspended due to the persistent efforts of the Republican People's Party, and one of my clients has been arrested. These children were admitted to the same dorm as my client, although it was forbidden.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0348par0233	Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0347par0234	These children were subjected to the abuse of teachers, some teachers, and none of these children were given psychological support until we brought this up.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0349par0235	Marry him, marry him!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0347par0236	If that law were passed, you might want to marry off some of those kids. The indictment has been filed, as we bring this to the public's agenda. The indictment was sent to Adıyaman Public Prosecutor's Office today. In Gerger, the abuse at the centre of Adıyaman was limited to only 20 children, although the number of children referred to in his statement was 74. What's the deal with these 54 kids, suddenly they're off the case? If 74 children are being harassed in a ministry that is your responsibility, you shouldn't sit there for a minute. Either take responsibility for this, resign, or whatever is happening in Adıyaman, tell the truth to this community.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0349par0238	Is the director of national education on duty, Director of National Education?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0347par0239	The children of this country will be harassed in school, harassed in dorms, forced to sleep in the same dorm as my resident, and they will be subjected to treatments that I can't explain here, look, I can't explain. As a journalist, I obtained that indictment, the indictment at Adıyaman Public Prosecutor's Office. Trust me, when you read that indictment with a little conscience, friends throw up, throw up, I have to say it. When you see the children being treated, make sure you throw up. Oh, yeah, what's it gonna be? We're going to talk now, and in a moment, Mr. Secretary will say they're allegations, and whatever's going on will happen to those kids. When we tell those children not to reach for dirty hands, it is unfortunate that those who stretch out those dirty hands walk freely as they please. But, his hands are only on guitar, carp, flute, pipe, band commentors are being arrested again tonight. (HPP) The detention of Necmiye Albay and Aslı Erdogan has been unfairly carried out. Those who can't account for what happened to 74 children are taking revenge on the intellectuals, writers, artists, in the name of extraordinary circumstances. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0350par0243	Batman MP Mehmet Ali Aslan wants a word on the other proposal of the same nature.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0351par0244	Is the Adıyaman National Education Director relieved of duty, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0352par0245	Minister, do you have the director of national education there?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0350par0246	Here you go, Mr. Lion.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0353par0248	Mr. President, I salute the General Assembly. It's called Teacher's Day tomorrow, but there's nothing left of the teachers. 70-80,000 teachers are suspended, discharged, discharged, and their families are fighting for a great deal of life, struggling for sustenance. It's said that dozens of teachers committed suicide, the media won't give it to the minister, and we're asking how many teachers have committed suicide by now. Again, dozens of teachers' wives and teachers' wives had a miscarriage because they were wrongfully fired and suspended. I would like to recite to you a verse from here: O ye who believe! And beware of many conjectures. For most suspicion is sin. It is called. This is stated in the 12th verse of Hucurat. And, of course, I suggest to Mr. Vice President, that there's a place in the House that's going to be seen, so they do the work between them, they do it with consultations. The verse is required to be discussed in a manner that will be seen, because unfortunately, the government is trying to pass the law they want without asking the opposition. It's wrong, even if it's for the benefit of the people. Again, I want this verse to actually be written. In the House of Maiden, it says: "O ye who believe! Do not let your hatred of a people and a people lead you to injustice. Allah is just and aware of what you do. Unfortunately, whatever power is taking place in Turkey is holding a grudge against the opposition and the one who is not himself. And today, unfortunately, we live in the most visible way. This is Şırnak, the city of Noah. It says in my book, "The Ark of Noah, the Ark of Noah, sat on Mount Cudi. " Since Noah's time, the city of Şırnak has not been destroyed like this, nor has it been destroyed this way. Take a good look here. No politician and no network is doing this, unfortunately, and 7 neighborhoods, about 50,000 people, are currently homeless, and unfortunately, in this winter's conditions, they have to fight for their lives. Again, Mr. Secretary, these are students with books, trying to walk through those visible ruins. There are tanks of cannon shells that we can show you later that still haven't exploded there. Is there some kind of countermeasure you're taking to make sure they don't blow up on them? That's how I'll present this to you. Most of the remaining houses are like this. They're looted, stolen, shot, as you can see, and five or six families living together in safe houses, unfortunately. The coup attempt on July 15th has eclipsed the coup attempt on May 20th. The coup d'état of the 4th of November also trumped the July 15th coup attempt. Now people ask you about November 4th because July 15th is gone, it's over. You can't justify the blows to yourself over him. On the night of November 4th, Leyla Birlik, who was a guest in my house with her advisor, was taken from the inside by force. I was struck and neutralized, and our guest of the Leyla Union was dragged between the hands of me, my wife, and my child. Is this your culture, your grandmother, your custom? Is there any way in Islam, law, law, law, grandmother, to take a guest, especially a congressman from the inside?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0354par0257	Is there any killing in the book? Is there killing in Islam, Islam?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0353par0258	You're the ones who caused the killing in Islam. Look, this time last year, we were shielded alive, while both soldiers and police and Kurdish children risked our bodies so that they wouldn't die.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0354par0261	You're the ones who killed those Kurds!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0353par0262	...you were watching the game like you just did.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0354par0263	You're the ones who killed those Kurds, Kurds, Kurdish citizens!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0353par0264	What were you doing there? Why didn't you come and be a human shield!
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0355par0265	Mr. Aslan, your time is up.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0353par0266	Why didn't you come and do it while we were still alive for the police?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0355par0267	Mr. Aslan, your time is up. Dear Aslan, please...
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0353par0269	For those cops and soldiers you claim to love so much, did any of you come and get shielded alive?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0355par0271	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 5 of the main law bill (1/711) in the following way. Zuhal Topcu (Ankara) and his friends The following joke has been added to Article 13 of the provisions of Law 5-652. The first joke (d) of Article 5/7/2004 of the Metropolitan Municipality Law, dated 10/7/2004, is not applied to the first article of Article 5/7/2005, and to the institutions of which provide special housing for students. Institutions that provide private housing services for students are granted a business and work permit by the Ministry. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this joke are determined by regulations." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0356par0281	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0355par0282	Mersin MP Baki Simsek will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0357par0285	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Movement on Article 5 of Law Bill 405. I salute the nation of St. Turk and the Grand Assembly. Tomorrow (November 24th) I ask God's mercy to all our martyrs, Buminhan Cleankkan, who was slaughtered in the school's hall, along with six teachers in the village of Tunceli Mazgirt Darikent in 1994, by the martyrs who were killed in 1994. Buminhan Hanizkan graduated from Dicle University. His first assignment was in the village of Tunceli Mazzirt Darikent, where he was later martyred in 1994. Before being martyred, I would like to share with you a letter he wrote to his mother: my dear mother, my dear father; after I left you in 1994, I took a bus from Adana, and fell asleep on my way to Tucson. In my dream, the veterans were gathering around me, chatting. They said, "Get up, what else are you lying about? The decision we demanded for you has been accepted. Do you have any other demands?" I said I have friends. They said, "We won't interfere anymore. You decide. We've given you authority." I just woke up. I said, "Hopefully," and I immediately read a Fatiha, and I was relieved. Now I interpret my dream: I kiss your parents, your hands, my brothers' eyes. God be with you. May the Creator be with you and your help. Tell my mother, I've traveled far and wide in the land, tell my mother not to wear black. I wrote the main letter, and in the road, and in the mail, tell my mother not to wear blacks, and as soon as the letter is delivered to her mother, the burial of Buminhan Cleankkan will take place. Dear lawmakers, our teachers continue to serve under really difficult conditions, both in terror and in material impossibilities. Of course, Mr. Secretary told us about the positive work done. Turkey must go forward, we have no further to go back. But I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary here how many thousand teachers are currently not assigned? Is this number going down or is it going up? We're hiring seasonal workers for schools, are you at ease with your conscience? How do you get these seasonal workers? I'd like to ask you: are you acting on the lists from AKP agencies in this seasonal recruitment, or are you actually taking lists from İSKUR, drawing them up, notarizing them fairly? The number entering KPSS is close to 3.5 million in secondary school graduates. In a developing, moving, growing Turkey, do you find this number logical or correct? The election was promised, and we're going to build a university of technology. The Council of Ministers has issued a decision regarding the Tarosian University of Technology. In the 405 rankings, the University of Tsarsus Technologies and other universities had written. Why are you postponing this? Why did you take the Tarosian University of Technology out of the draft? Minister, we expect you to make a public statement about this as well. Unfortunately, the minimum wage is 1,300 lira in Turkey, which you've managed for fifteen years. Are you happy with that? Are you happy with that? Syrian students living in Turkey enter the university without exams. We give each Syrian student 1,200 lira free scholarships, 400 lira for Turkish students. We'll pay you back this $400. You are the Minister of National Education of the Republic of Turkey, your priority is to protect the interests of the Turkish people, the Turkish nation. We expect you to make the necessary arrangements. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit08spe0358par0296	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-11-23sit09spe0358par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 405. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with Law Bill 341 in the 3rd place, and the Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin negotiations with Law Bill 205 and Foreign Affairs Commission Report, ranked in the fourth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will not be found after this, the decision is made to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of Thursday (November 24th 2016), at 14 p.m. on Thursday (November 2016). I'm closing the meeting at 00, and I wish you a good night.
