tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 118th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, on July 15th, I curse once again the vile attempt against our nation, our national will, our state, and our President, and the vile terrorists who did this. It will be appreciated in front of history for all groups in our parliament to act jointly with our nation and demonstrate full solidarity with this coup attempt. I'm honored to be under this roof today with my fellow congressmen who have shown this union. I wish God's mercy to all of our martyrs who have lost their lives in this treacherous enterprise, and my condolences to our nation, and to our wounded, and to the immediate healing. In addition, I salute the President of our Veteran Assembly and your esteemed members, the President of the Veterans, who once again demonstrates his heart against the coup and the coups of his nation, that no attempt against the nation could succeed. Again, I would like to thank our government, all of our political parties and groups, our NGOs and press release organizations, once again, with its firmness and firmness towards coups and coups. I salute every single member of our saint nation, who stands on a democracy watch in seven-to-seven-to-seven-to-seven squares, with an epic history, shielding his chest from tanks, rather than living without honor, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before I go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three members of parliament off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement is from Hatay MP Mevlüt Dudu, who wants to mention Hatay's anniversary of salvation. Here you go, Mr. Dudu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0002par0019	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the 77th year of Hatay's defection to the motherland. I salute the High Council and the citizens who are watching us on their screens. [[Applause from CHP rows]] As I begin with my words, I condemn and condemn the coup attempt on July 15th against our democracy, against our state, against those who attempt to do so, and against those who attempt to do so, and against their supporters, but in the same way, I also hope that they will be punished as soon as possible, and that they will be punished, and that they will be punished. Dear MPs, last Saturday (July 23rd) was the 77th anniversary of Hatay's defection to the motherland. That day we had a very important incident in Hatay, that day and yesterday, on the night of July 25th, my fellow Hatay MPs who will soon take the stand after me will also inform you about it. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's 40-year-old Turkish home cannot be held captive by the enemy. The battle against Hatay, which was launched by the thought of Hatay, has accomplished very important things in the national struggle. The first bullet, for example, was fired by Mehmet Kara in Karakese village of Hatay, Hatay Province, Turkey, on December 19, 1918, not in İzmir. Hatay has done some really important work in the national struggle, but with the victory of the Liberation War, as in all Turkey, the fight against Hatay was not over because Hatay had not ended because Hatay, who had entered the French occupation after the 1918 Mondros Objective, had not been committed until 1939. On 27 January 1937, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's expert diplomatic initiatives were presented to the approval of Hatay's mother country, the United Nations, at the time. Later, on 29 June 1939, Hatay State President Şatay, led by the late Thaifur Sökmen, the Hatay National Assembly made a decision to apply to the motherland, and the next day, it was approved by the Turkish Grand National Assembly on 30 June 1939, and on 23 July the Turkish military Hatay took over and completed the defection process to Hatay's main homeland. The peace, peace, brotherhood, and tolerance that Hatay, a geography that has been an example to the world and not just the Middle East, has been threatened by what has happened in the Middle East and especially Syria in the past few years, but Hatay's people have not broken the tradition of a thousand years, despite all the trials that have always been in this regard. After the July 15 coup attempt, last Saturday we celebrated both Hatay's anniversary and did a very important job at Hatay. All lawmakers, under the leadership of Hatay Governor, we met with his initiative; all the mayors of Hatay, including the mayor of the city -- three political parties, AKP, CHP, and the presidents of the districts of MHP -- came together and issued a joint declaration. In this declaration, we first demonstrated our stand against the July 15 coup attempt and our feelings of unity, solidarity, and later expressed that we would claim our republic, founded on the principles of secular, democratic, social law. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, yesterday... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, perhaps my friends will, since it's a private matter, I'd like another moment.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0003par0029	All right, let's take a minute for Hatay... Here you go, sir. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0002par0031	On that day, along with the declaration, we made a very good decision, and on July 25th -- so last night -- we decided to have a National Union and Brotherhood Meeting in Antioch. Last night, from Antioch Republic Square, we cried out to the world our feelings of unity, unity and solidarity, our democracy, our state, our nation, all of Turkey and the world together. I, here, hereby, present my thanks to all my friends of Life, our political party mayors, our mayors, our NGOs, who lead this initiative, especially our Governor of Hatay, Mr Ercan Topaca, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0003par0034	Thank you, Mr Dudu. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoglu, who wants to talk about the same issue. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0004par0039	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken a solemn pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the 77th year of Hatay's entry into the motherland and the recent events in our country, and I salute your grand delegation. As a result of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's superior strength and sensitivity, the National Society of Nations gathered in Geneva, 1937, accepted Hatay's independence and decided to make a majority determination in Hatay. Then, on 13 August 1937, the Hatays joined the motherland with an example of loyalty to Turkish history, choosing to be united with the Republic of Turkey, to live with it as an independent state, taking the votes of all the members of the Hatay National Assembly and enjoining Turkey in 1939. While celebrating the 77th year of Hatay's entry into the main homeland, the Turkish home of the 40th century cannot be a prisoner in the hands of the enemy. "The Hatay is my personal concern," he said, expressing his trust in Hatay. Dear lawmakers, I curse our democracy on July 15th, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which represents the will of our beloved nation, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the centre of our Turkish army, the legitimate government, the units of our hero police, and above all, the coup attempt against the will of the noble and noble Turkish nation. He expects his followers to answer in front of the great Turkish justice of those who have prepared this environment, to be investigated in full detail of this event, and I say, "Get over to the Veterans Parliament and our beloved nation." I pray to the martyrs of democracy of our heroic nation, who have taken their own will, that God have mercy on them and on their families and on our nation, and that our nation shall never live a dark day like this again. Dear MPs, in the coup attempt on July 15th, Mr. Hatay Governor Ercan Topaca Bey's superior efforts and efforts in Hatay, who served with Turkish soldiers and police members of his country and nation, have quickly managed to neutralize and silence the night in Hatay's attempt to coup Hatay, with our Hatay fellow citizens, who have had democracy and national will. Here, I thank the members of the Turkish Armed Forces, our police forces, our Hatay people, who are loyal to democracy and national will, especially our Governor Hatay. Also, under the leadership of our Governor Hatay, on Monday (July 25, 2016), there was a rally of Hatay National Union and Brotherhood Meeting, which was held last night (July 20,30) by the governorship of Antioch, Metropolitan and 15 district mayors; AKP, CHP and the presidents of the district of MHP, attended by AKP, CHP and the presidents of Hatay, Alemi in Hatay, Sunni in Hatay, Christian, Jews, and the Union of Hatay, which was held as a whole with Turkish Flags. As Hatay lawmakers, we joined this rally with the will to act together against the unity and integrity of our state, the brotherhood of our nation, the environment of tolerance and love that has been going on in our country for thousands of years, and the internal and external sanctums that threaten our democracy. We were in those squares that day to claim our democratic, secular and social law state.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0005par0046	Mr. Ahrazoglu, complete in one minute, please.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0004par0047	At this rally, Hatay is one of the Hatay and Hatay, one of the Hatays and Hatays, and one flag, one country, one nation, we are one, one nation, one nation, all of us are Turkey. The message has been given. I wish that this rally in Hatay would set an example for our whole country, and I salute the Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0005par0049	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Hatay MP Haci Bayram Türkoğlu, who wants to talk about the same issue again. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0006par0054	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, it has been an important step that Hatay, who had hosted ancient civilizations, gave the young Republic of Turkey energy, synergy, energy, synergy, energy, synergy. The decision to integrate with the motherland of the Hatay and the Hatay Parliament by its strong will is an event that values our national unity and integrity, promoting the peaceful identity of our country in the international community and boosting its dignity. As Hatay celebrates the 77th anniversary of our beautiful city of peace and tolerance, Hatay, the founder of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and Hatay President Tyfur Sökmen, and all his comrades, I salute all our martyrs who fight for the unity and integrity of our country, from the great God. Mr. President, you know, it's been a coup attempt on national will to wake up cells sleeping within the Turkish Armed Forces from a rogue network called the peace council on July 15th. In this coup attempt, me and my family were shot with bombs in the Turkish National Assembly and bullets fired from helicopters. The wounds we received from helicopters that night in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the injuries we suffered from the helicopters, the injuries we suffered from shrapnel from the bomb, the suffering of the families of our fallen lungs in this low blow. In the squares, this saintly nation has written an epic tale. With their lives, I salute this great nation of ours, who are calling off the invasion of the homeland. And how much we praise them, and how little we thank them! God bless them all. In the host of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, Amasya, Erzurum, Sivas, the text of the congresses; the attempt to mortgage and trouble Laz (Laz), Çerkek (Turkish), Turk (Turkish), and Sakarya (Kurdish) is also a whole Turkish nation in Sakarya; the testimony of our martyrs, the determination and determination of our veterans, has been driven out of the national will, based on the tireless struggles of our veterans, by July 15th. The forces of our nation, men, women, young men, young men, Alevi (Alevi) and older men, the Sunni (Kurkish), the Kurdish (Kurkishah), the Lazlu (Cerkek) and all the Turkish people of Anatolia (Cerkek) and all the Turkish people of Turkey, who are from all sides, have the power of the tank, the bullets, and the bombs thrown out of those planes. Long live the nation. Long live the Republic of Turkey. The unity and solidarity table, which has been laid forth since the night of July 15th, is the most discreet example of the unwavering faith, of steeled will, which is inherited from Malazgirt, Mohach, Çanakkale, and Kutulamare. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our dear nation, our nation is a great nation, our state is a great state. As long as the state of the Republic of Turkey stays, I hope, that's why we exist. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Ankara and Istanbul-based and single-handedly in our other counties, with low concentrations and failures...
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0007par0061	Mr. Türkoglu, finish in a minute, please.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0006par0062	...the perpetrators of this attempt will be punished with the most severe punishment, and hopefully the root of other terrorist organizations, who have barricaded the holy march of the great Turkey, who have opened ditchs, parallel networks and behinds, will be wiped out. In this treacherous attack, in the face of the coup, the precious MPs of our great Parliament, along with the nation and the national will, I congratulate all of you, and all of you, and all of you, and all of you, including our President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and all of you, thank God you exist, and may Allah be pleased with all of you. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] As the f16s of the coup d'états are being asked, I give the nation's man, commander-in-chief Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the man of the nation who defied the coup with his nation, my deepest gratitude to the heroes of this second national struggle, named and nameless. The global mind, which is low and subcontractorial, should know that Turkey's mercy... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the more Ali, the more violent his wrath is. They will pay a heavy price for this attempt to invade Turkey. July 15th, I want to thank our beloved nation for sacrificing their lives and turning it into a holiday of democracy.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0008par0068	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0006par0069	With mercy again, with gratitude, I call upon our martyrs, to our veterans, to our wounded, to heal them, and to greet you with my deepest respect and love.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0008par0071	Thank you very much. We congratulate all of our Hatay MPs and political parties. We congratulate and congratulate all NGOs, every single member of our beloved nation, on this decisive union against the coup. Congressmans, we have deputies entering the system. I'm going to promise the first 15 MPs one minute by 60. Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Gökçe, Mr. Deligör, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Dursmusoglu, Mr. Gündoğdu, Mr. Atici, Mr. Emir, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Benli, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Havutça and Mr. Gündoğd. Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0009par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to thank all of our citizens for their political views after the July 15 coup attempt. I curse those who eat the bread of this land, drink its water, and bomb their own people with tanks, with airplanes that people buy. We must learn the necessary lessons from these events, and I offer my regards to all citizens of the government, who have been removed from office in 2014 only because they are Turkish Education-SEN.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0008par0081	Mr. Tezcan...
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0010par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Eleven days have passed since the coup attempt, which was blocked by our nation's glorious stance, attempted to be carried out by a group of terrorist organizations. I pray to our martyrs God's mercy, and to our wounded brothers, and to heal them quickly. During this time, we visited some of our wounded brothers and relatives at Ankara Numune Hospital. We listened to the heroic stories of honorable, humble, brave people, who stood so high in their very sad, dramatic, soul-wrenching, health-care situations, but our eyes lived, but our hopes for the future and for this country grew stronger. God bless them all. It is also good that the Bosporus Bridge has changed its name as the July 15th Martyrs Bridge. I'd like to thank all my fellow citizens who continue our democracy watch in my constituency, Mersin, and Cumhuriyet Square, and all of our district squares. Yours truly.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0011par0088	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0012par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. The treasonous, treacherous coup attempt by the terrorist organization has been repelled by the stand-up and leadership of Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, by the battle of our beloved Parliament with our nation's 79 million single hearts. Now, like the spirit of Çanakkale, there is the spirit of the 15th of July, of the national will and of the national struggle. Our nation has been on a national will watch in the square for 12 days. There is a demand from our Parliament: First of all, the traitor has demanded that the terrorist organization be arrested one by one and punished the most severely, that the members of the terrorist organization be removed from all institutions of the judiciary, Armed Forces, MİT, Security and all other institutions, and that the only country, one flag, one state, and one nation, be carried out of the democratic, civil constitution. I salute the nation's will with gratitude and gratitude to our beloved nation, who shielded your body.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0011par0092	Mr. Gökçe...
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0013par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. On the night of July 15th, Turkey suffered the most vicious, brutal, lowest attack in history. The treacherous plan to destroy our country, our nation, to turn the streets into blood pools, to turn Turkey into a civil war, to turn it into an organizational state has been eliminated by the stand-up of our beloved President, our heroic police, our nation, and our government. Turkey's greatest enemy, psychotic Gulen and terrorists have exhibited the most disgusting form of treason that we haven't seen in a thousand years, turning our nation's tanks, weapons into nationals, shooting their own people on the streets and eventually bombing our nation's parliament. The vile attack on our president's life, to overthrow the government, to shut down Parliament, to establish a junta regime, is the biggest terrorist attack against Turkey by a traitor group that has infiltrated all institutions in the state over the years.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0011par0096	Dear Crazy Eyes...
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0014par0098	Mr. President, I condemn the treasonous coup attempt on the night of July 15, 2016. This coup attempt has shown that we need to change the education and teaching curriculum of our military schools. Besides military classes, courses such as science, mathematics, physics, chemistry, Turkish, history and geography must be given by civilian teachers who will be determined by the Ministry of National Education. The Military Supreme Court must be removed. I think that in order for the state and nation to contribute to integration and the soldiers to recognise this great Turkish nation, military housing should be abolished and rented among the people, such as other public officials. Erzurum Narman, the special police officer who was killed, Firat Bulut, the father of Fırat Bulut, Shinasi CHP President Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu, we want to step in front of him, please listen to our voice. I was with him when he begged us to do so. I'm calling from here to the CHP Group and Mr. Kilicdaroglu, listen to the voices of the relatives of these martyrs, and let us bring the execution to pass...
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0015par0101	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0016par0103	For over a week, removal, suspensions in different institutions have become almost a witch hunt. Republican, Social Democrat, Ataturkcı, trade union and many public officials who have opposed injustice in any case have been taken into custody and suspended in an investigation launched under the name ▪. The government must act more carefully against every opposing person, every public official he has removed from office without investigating the details. In order for that not to happen, he must immediately extradite public officials, who clearly have no interference, especially the Prime Minister and the ministers. I call on political power to be sincere and thorough in order to ensure that the rights of honest people, who have served as a public official in the democratic, secular law state, are protected, their guarantees and work opportunities, that injustice and unlawfulness do not take place, and not to turn the investigations launched into a new political staff. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0017par0106	Mr. Gündüz...
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0018par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. The coup d'états, members of the People's Republic, tried to take our democracy to the ground by throwing bullets at the nation's will, bombing the nation's Parliament. These traitors' extra-democracy attempts have been eliminated by the determination and love of our noble nation. The soldier's furnace is the prophet's furnace, and the multitudes who wanted to plant the seed of hypocrisy have prepared their own end. As our poet Mehmet Akif Ersoy said, "I do not salute the tank that turned its name against the nation." I salute the high assembly, saying, "We are grateful for the 78 million people who have their will, who have filled the streets."
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0017par0110	Mr. Emir, come in.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0019par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. The July 15 coup attempt has been repelled by the joint struggle of all forces in Turkey for democracy, particularly political parties. However, what should be done from now on is to try to consolidate democracy and try to live up to the end of the rule of law, rather than consolidate the rule of AKP rule. The state of emergency law was only authorized to issue a decree in accordance with the state of emergency, but the latest decree issued by the 667th Law has greatly crossed that line and injured their consciences and law. What needs to be done is to stay within the law and to fight this structure, especially in the right of people to life and body integrity, and if necessary, the House must take necessary measures within the law.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0020par0115	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0021par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, once again I curse the vile coup attempt with a loud voice. However, I remind you that in the time of the coupgers and its extensions, it should be considered by whom and how they are supported, and I will continue to remind you. Those who say they're against coups cannot be exonerated for the help they've done to the conquestist structures in the past. The state of emergency declared after the coup attempt is antidemocratic. Many teachers, academics, officers and judges who had nothing to do with it have been suspended and some have been arrested. The chiefs can't protect the ones they're sure are clean. Judges can't decide to be released. This situation is dangerous and must be taken immediately.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0022par0120	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0023par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. The July 15 coup attempt has not only brought to light the institutional collapse of the judiciary, the army and the security, as it turns out, along with one of the areas of education that we Republican People's Party have been tirelessly warning and tirelessly warning for the past 14 years. A total of 43,000 teachers, 22,000 National Education personnel, have been suspended as of today. I'd like to call on the ruling party, opposition parties, and Mr. Minister of National Education to begin to talk, compromise and build together, on the basis of the qualified, scientific and secular education system, especially the reconsideration of the 4+4+4 educational system.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0024par0125	Mr. Benli...
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0025par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. Last week, Congress declared a state of emergency because we're not going through the usual times. If we were in a normal time, he wouldn't be in the hospital today because he was crushed under a vehicle tank with the 8-year-old Grand Mert Atalay family who would only see tanks from cartoons or televisions. If we'd been through the usual times, we wouldn't have had to attend the funerals of the Fair Bigmouth, or the 264 martyrs like them, who were shot in the middle of the eyebrow in front of the Stock Exchange. If we'd been through the usual times, our coven wouldn't have been bombed by fighter planes, scanned by helicopters. On this occasion, Haci Bayram Türkoglu, who was shot in the parliament's garden, I wish to heal the wife of our deputy -- who was hit by a helicopter -- and to our nearly 2,000 wounded wounded with it -- and I thank our members of the EC PARTİ, CHP, MP from the parliament who were in the parliament that day, and all the MPs and all the parties who are still in the squares today. The only way we can hold on to the usual times is to keep this union together.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0026par0131	Mr. Guler...
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0027par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. After the July 15 coup attempt, our Niğde paid six martyrs. One of our martyrs, Omar Halisdemir, has changed the course of impact. I visited his father Hasan Hussein Halisdemir in Bor Çukurkuyu, and his brother, Doğan Halisdemir. I visited Varol Tosun, the father of Varol Tosun, who was a martyr in Ankara, Yilmaz Tosun. This week I visited Süleyman Tosun, the father of our police officer Kemal Tosun, who was a martyr in İstanbul. Parents are proud of their children, but everyone has an expectation. In order for our country not to experience similar situations in the future, they sincerely wish that everyone, in their own institutional structure, would create a future with mutual tolerance and understanding. In this regard, I cherish all our martyrs. And in order for our country not to experience similar events again, everyone's responsibility is to carry out his duties as our Parliament in the first place.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0028par0138	Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0029par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. We curse the coup attempt on the night of July 15th and the coup d'états. On the night of July 15th, our history and nation will not forget the traitors who were not bombed even in the wars, who were bombed by the national will, who bombed the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I wish God's mercy to our martyrs who resisted the coup and lost their lives, and to the wounded, and to the wounded, and to the poor. We, in any case, have defended democracy, freedoms, secular republics, and we will continue to defend them. The meeting of all political parties in the denominator of democracy proved its predation with the adoption of the republic and our people, whose foundations were laid by the great Ataturk in 1923. And with this understanding of democratic reconciliation, I wish to maintain the same understanding in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in resolving our people's problems, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0030par0145	Mr. Gündüz...
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0031par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. As Republican People's Party members, we are a continuation of a political understanding that has suffered the biggest blow from the voter to the president, who has been thrown into lawmakers' prisons, tortured, whose lives have been ended, whose party has been shut down. With that understanding, I once again condemn the July 15 coup attempt against national will, parliamentary system, democracy and freedom. In order to defeat the dirty plans of our evil focals, which are aimed at our country, our democracy, as soon as possible, we must all take the necessary steps to promote social solidarity, normalisation, and better strengthening of democracy. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0032par0151	Son, Mr. Bektasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0033par0153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And I, Professor Halil Inalcik, ask Allah to have mercy on him, and God rest his soul, of the great values of Turkish history that we lost yesterday. Mr. President, the glorious resistance of our people in the square has been crowned with the organization of our party and a rally held at the top of the party, celebrating the organisers, contributors, participants, I thank you. We now know for certain that our people own the republic and democracy at the expense of their lives and blood, and other than that, they reject everything -- the dictatorship, the organization of the community, the forms of governance that are intended to be created in all forms of impact. There's been a national agreement on all of this. After the coup attempt on July 15th, we need to read the attitude and understanding of our people in this direction correctly, act accordingly, and do what is necessary. The only way out of this chaos is to build a full and complete democracy with institutions and boards, strengthened by law, fundamental rights and freedoms in harmony and cooperation. Turkey can't achieve anything by fighting, fighting, mixing, division and disintegration, dissociating differences, but losing much. Thank you very, very much.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0034par0158	Thank you. Mr. Akçay, you're in the system, I'll give you my word for two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0035par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. After the July 15 terrorist attack and coup attempt, we are crossing a critical threshold as Turkey. We're going through a period where we expect the fethullahist terrorist organization, which has infiltrated the most fundamental institutions of the state for years, illegally, to be completely wiped out of public institutions. The eye of the Turkish nation, in particular, is a painful situation to consider when the prophet's furnace infiltrates the Turkish Armed Forces to have an impact on the coup attempt here. In particular, however, it is the fact that the July 15 initiative was carried out by a click that infiltrated the Turkish Armed Forces and that the attempt could and could not be taken into full Turkish Armed Forces. The honor and honor of the Turkish soldier, the love of country and nation should never be discussed by anyone. For the safety of our country, the Turkish Armed Forces must quickly strengthen morale and motivation, and before long the command level must be organised. On the one hand, the fight against the Fethullahist terrorist organization should not be put in the background. Yesterday, three of our police officers and one of our soldiers were killed by the attack of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in Diyarbakır Silvan. The Turkish Armed Forces' will to fight terrorism is sought to be restrained by some focal points. From July 20, 2015, after the solution process, we learned painfully about our problems with terrorist attacks.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0034par0165	Mr. Akçay, complete in one minute, please.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0035par0166	With the armed forces failing to leave the barracks due to the events of July 15th, reports are being made public that the terrorist organization is again stacking weapons and ammunition in our country. We wish the government would keep that in mind. Halil Inalcik Hodja, one of the prominent historians raised by the Turkish nation, received the mercy of Hakkk yesterday. Inalcik, known as the sheik of the sheikhs, is one of the most important scientists in Turkish history and world history, especially for his work on Ottoman history. Halil Inalcik is a respected scientist who manufactures and rewrites information with the identity of a historian. The historians of Turkey and the world have directed their research by looking at it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Halil Inalcık is a guide to the Ottoman historianship, with more than 1,200 of his works written in different languages. History will bring him to life with its works. I offer my condolences to the late Inalcik, Allah, to his grieving family, and to the great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0036par0171	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Baluken, I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0037par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we condemned the July 15 coup attempt with a very clear political attitude as all political party groups from here, we cursed it, and we demonstrated the basic principles and fundamental policies that needed to be established to exit this coup site. We, the People's Democratic Party, have stated that the key way out of this coup floor is through policies and practices that will be established on the basis of democracy, human rights, the legal state and social peace. We have to express some concerns and concerns that political power still has not learned the right lessons from the process. We'd like to rephrase from here once again the concept of ruling the country in the legislature, the torture images, the execution debates on the press-release, the state-of-the-art liquidation operations, the state-of-the-art, and the understanding of running the country under the legislature of the State of Emergency, the complete dismantling of constitutional control, and the position of the House bypassing from this coup floor, as we certainly do not see a solution to this coup floor. In particular, we believe that the conflicting process in the Kurdish issue, which has thrown this country on the floor of the coup, must be removed as soon as possible. We believe that the creation of a re-negotiation environment has passed through a period of urgent need to address the fundamental issues of Turkey, especially the Kurdish issue, through the dialogue channels of politics.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0038par0178	Mr. Baluken, please complete in one minute.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0037par0179	I am, Mr. President. In this sense, we have a very valuable study, such as the Dolmabahçe agreement, which was announced on the day of the coup on February 28th. Either we accept the democratic principles set out there, the fundamental clauses that determine the democracy manifesto, or unfortunately, we continue to view February 28th as a date of coups. In this sense, in particular, the fact that we still condemn the lockdown on Mr. Ocalan in Imran, that his family, his lawyer, or an independent delegation, should immediately determine what happened in the night of the coup and after the coup... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and to remind Mr. Ocalan that it is important to inform the public on the health conditions of his health, thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0039par0183	Mr. Altay, please, I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0040par0185	I won't take two minutes, Mr. President, thank you. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. We are deeply sorry for the loss of our Halil Inalcık Hodja, whose reputation has been registered all over the world, who has contributed to the creation of thousands of students into the life of science, who has given our history a lifetime of objective reflection. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. I ask His Holiness for His mercy. Let's hope his place is in heaven. On the other hand, Hatay's participation in the main country, as our MPs have expressed from the bench, has strengthened the power of the Republic of Turkey, which consolidated our national unity. I ask the President of Hatay of the period to have mercy on the Speaker of Parliament. On this occasion, as the Republican People's Party, I extend our respect and love to all Hatayli citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0041par0189	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Incescuz...
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0042par0192	Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, first of all, our country was exposed to a coup attempt on the night of July 15th, with support from inside and outside by the terrorist in uniform of the Fethullahist terrorist organization. In the face of the coup attempt by our nation's nation, our nation, our country's future, where the war planes, the helicopters, the tanks' long barrel is being targeted on all streets and the Parliament, which is also the target of national will, our nation's total, total struggle, and the struggle continues with the will of our nation to have national will in the squares. Here, Mr. President, I thank our Prime Minister, our ministers, and our MPs who were in Parliament that night, and I thank the Speaker of Parliament from the bottom of my heart. I think it's very important that the unity of that day, the climate of unity and unity, when it comes to the national will, when it comes to the future of our country and our nation. In this sense, I sincerely thank everyone, especially our beloved nation, who contributes to this unity and unity. However, Halil İnalcık Hodja has received the mercy of Hakk, and I ask God's mercy for him. Again, on the 93rd anniversary of the Lausanne Treaty, I bless all our statesmen, who are the architects of that treaty, including the Bani of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal. In the meantime, we have a martyr who died in the coup attempt and died in the fight against terrorism again -- and today we have a martyr -- asking for God's mercy to all of our martyrs, and I pray for immediate healing to our wounded.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0043par0196	Thank you. We too wish God's mercy to our teacher Halil Inalcık and to his relatives and to all our nation. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I read the motions separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly About 30 per cent of ex-cons who have been released from prison after completing their sentence and who have lost the quality of imprisonment are returning to prison after a certain period of time. It is not possible for a convicted and convicted individual to have a financial condition similar to the one he was in before he was convicted after he was released from prison. Unfortunately, one of the most disadvantaged jobs in our country is ex-cons. It is difficult to find employment in order to provide for individuals in the first place and to make a living because they are not trusted and are not accepted into the working environment by society. A major increase in parolees on the basis of the conditions for parole increases the difficulties in the employment of prisoners. It is almost impossible for ex-cons to find employment if these factors are added to the negative picture, which is the result of our country's economic situation and the high unemployment rate. In addition to the problems of employment, society's prejudicial view of ex-cons, exclusion from social environments, causes the individual's ties to society to break down day by day. Unfortunately, in our country, even if it's old, the convicts carry this judgment as a social stamp for the rest of their lives. According to experts, the most important thing for ex-cons to adapt to public life and to obtain employment opportunities is no doubt the training and psychological support given to prisoners in prison. If this system is successfully implemented, it will increase the confidence of other people in both social life and working life. However, in prisons in our country, there is not enough psychosocial support. Turkey has a total of 360 prisons -- 294 of which are closed, 55 of which are open sentences -- and even though prisons have 100 per cent of them, the number of staff to serve in this regard remains relatively inadequate, given European standards. In view of the grounds listed above, I would like to submit to the opening of Parliamental inquiry in accordance with Articles 104, 105, and Article 105, in order to determine the problems and measures of the Constitution, 98, and the measures that must be taken in order to determine the adoption of ex-cons who have been released from prison and who have been eliminated of the quality of imprisonment. [[Bolu]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[Hatay]] 10) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] 15) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] 26) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Low wages, work unsecured, unemployment, job accidents, occupational illness, inhuman working conditions and so on are the common problems of all workers. In addition to these common problems, of course, each branch has its own unique, work-based problems. Today in Turkey, skin workers who try to survive in leather businesses have problems that have become gangrene. While Europe is where skin production and workmanship were born and recorded its initial development, this sector has gradually shifted to Asia and Latin America and has been particularly focused on the developing areas of animalism. Turkey is high in skin production, both in Europe and in the world. While industry started using new technologies in machines to increase production and compete with other manufacturers in the industry, it seemed to have become relatively easy for the past, it did not change the working and living conditions of workers in a positive way. Skin workers, who continue to produce more and more in less time, struggle with poor working conditions, uninsured work, subcontractorization, low wages, mandatory overtime, as well as health problems. Moreover, hundreds of skin workers have no knowledge of occupational illness or health problems that could be caught at any time. Almost all workers who work with large and heavy skins are particularly complaining of back and back pain. In particular, the fact that there are work accidents in the way that the fingers and arms are severed during the shaving and tibia process poses a serious danger in these factories. Their environment causes workers to develop lung disease, such as KOAH, asthma, at a very early age. The risk of cancer is serious because of chemicals such as asthma, ammonia, and chromium. In this industry, full of workers who have lost their lives or their health due to all of this, in exchange for blood and life, the pouch of their skin bosses is constantly plus-valued every day. In leather factories, electrical impacts are added to these negatives as the fractures, dislocations, and sprains again work on wet floors because of wet and oily floors. The sharp knives used to scrape skins, the machines used to process skins, cause cuts, compressions, and disconnects. There's a constant possibility of infection in the plate business when the epidermis of animal skins are removed. Because there's a lot of microorganisms in the animal skin. Such diseases as tetanus, anthrax, and brusella are the most important diseases that can be removed from the skin during platening. The chemicals used to prevent them from forming are also a great danger to the health of workers. Temporal labor, one of the most important problems of leather workers, has been widespread. In fact, applications, such as an indefinite employment contract, a fixed-term contract, partial labour, compensation work, subcontractor work, and call-order execution, have been generalized with the law in part. One of the areas where the dermatology sector is common is the Gerede district of Bolu. There are 130 businesses operating in the dermatology sector in this district, and some 2,500 workers are working in the workplace. Even the rights provided by the Employment Law are not known to them, as a very important part of the workers are not recorded. In 2012, leather workers rebelled to improve business conditions, and the incidents were pacified by the harsh intervention of security forces. These workers, who represent a group of about 10,000 people with their families, expect the proper attention from the authorities. With all due respect to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, the 98th Charter of the Constitution, as required by Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, so that the problems of the deregulation sector in Gerede, can be established in the country, to be taken to end the problems of our workers, and to be established in order to address the problems of our workers. [[Bolu]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Gaziantep]] 9) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] 10) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] 26) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Potatoes are a plant home to South America. He came to our country about 150 years ago from the Caucasus and Europe. Today, almost everywhere in our homeland, especially in the East and Central Anatolia. As it can easily adapt to various climate conditions, it can be brought up economically in many parts of the world. Its lumps contain important nutrients, including starched carbohydrates, proteins, and various vitamins. It has an important share in human feeding after grain. Because of its cheapness, its efficiency over the unit area, its high food value, its digestion, its use in various ways, and its growth in all kinds of climates, it is now being raised and consumed by almost all world countries. Potato production in our country has been produced between 4 and a half million tons in recent years. In 2014, Bolu produced 280,735 tonnes of potatoes in 84,461 decar. Its falling potato production has weighed 3.324 kilos. Bolu is one of the most productive cities in our country, with Niğde, Nevşehir, Afyonkarahisar. As it is known, on 1/12/2011, the Book of Plant Passports was adopted. With this regulation, it is intended to register our farmer and bring him into the tax system. The regulation also stipulates that cooking potato production should be planted every three years, and potato production of seeds every four years. Our farmers, who make their living producing potatoes, have a lot of input costs, and because of their credit debt, they sell their product below its value, causing prices to break. Again, a major problem for our manufacturers is the height of production costs. The high price of electricity, one of the key factors that increases the cost of producing potatoes, is also a problem that needs to be resolved. In September and October, when production is at its highest level, high levels of water-infested potatoes must be stored under special conditions. Because of the high cost of storage, the manufacturer has to sell the product at a low price. With respect to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, the 98th Amendment, the 104th Amendment, and 105th Articles of the Constitution to determine the problems caused by starting with the production of the potato plant in Bolu province. [[Bolu]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] 5) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[Hatay]] 9) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] 15) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Antalya]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] 25) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, so I'll have them read it and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly In response to the invitation of Georgia State Minister David Bakradze for Euro and Euro-Atlantic Integration on July 14, 15th 2016, the Batum International Conference in Batum-Gürcistan's conference on the European Road is submitted to the draft of the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and under the 9th Amendment. I submit the thesis to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Turkish Council's General Secretariat shall be held on 18 August 19 August 2016 in Astana, Kazakhstan, where the Council of Aksakals Council of the Aksakals Council of Sakarya MP and Aksakals Council Member Mustafa Isen will attend the 11th meeting, and shall be presented to the provisions of the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. So the thesis is accepted. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. At a meeting of the advisory council on Tuesday (26/7/2016), the following proposal was approved by the General Assembly. Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Peoples' Democratic Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. In order to determine measures which must be taken through all aspects of the activities of this terrorist organization; Group Deputy Director Mustafa Elitaş, Mehmet Naci Bostancı, İlkinur Tüçöz, Bkent Turan and Mehmet Mush's coup attempt on July 15, 2016; on behalf of the EC PARTI Group, in order to determine the measures that should be taken through all aspects of the actions of this terrorist organisation; on behalf of Group members of the group, Mustafa Elitaş, Mehmet Naci Bostancı, İlküçüçü, Mehmet Muş and Mehmet Mus's group; on behalf of the basis of which need to investigate the actions of our country, our national will, our joint values and democracy; on behalf of the TSK, the Council of Turkey's cells have been entrusted with the aim to protect of the country and the country; on the basis of the operation of the terrorist group's protection of the terrorist group; on the basis for the basis of the operation of the operation of the organisation; on July 15 July 15th and on the basis of the basis of the basis of the initiative of the initiative to investigate of the initiative of the initiative of the Council of the initiative of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of the Commission, the Council of the Council of Ministers of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers, the Council of the Council of the European of Ministers, the Council of the European of Ministers shall shall shall shall take into the Council of the Commission, the European of the European of the Commission, the Council of the European of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European of the European of the Commission of the European of Ministers of Ministers of the European of the European of Ministers shall shall shall take into the European Court of Ministers shall take into the Council of the European Court of the I'd like to submit the counsel board proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... It's unanimous.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0044par0435	Mr. President, I have a brief request.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0043par0436	Come in, Mr. Bauken, just a minute, sir.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0044par0439	Thank you. Mr. President, we regret to inform you of the death of Republican People's Party MP Aykut Erdoğdu. As the People's Democratic Party, I would like to extend our condolences to our fellow MP, his family and the Republican People's Party community. At the same time, I would like to extend my condolences to all those who love you, your students, your family, and all our people who have lost their lives, for Halil Inalcık, and for the precious scientist. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0045par0443	Thank you. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main law proposal (2/839) that has been discussed, I would like to request your permission and order that it be brought directly to the agenda. 26/07/2016 Yes, the bidder is Mr. Haydar Akar.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0046par0453	Ugur Flagtutan will speak.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0045par0454	Here you go, Mr. Flagtut. On behalf of an MP, Mr. Ugur Bayraktutan of Artvin. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0047par0457	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs were actually going to talk to Haydar Akar about this clause, and I was going to talk to him about something else.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0048par0458	You came to my rescue.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0047par0459	Yeah, I came to your rescue. But I'll talk about what I know, if you'll excuse me, that evening, on the night of the coup attempt, I was one of the first MPs to come to Parliament. I've had valuable friends from other political parties here, along with the Minister, in a cellar -- let's not say in the cellar -- we've waited until the morning, and we've seen what a terrible place it is. But if I'd thought a thousand years on the table, dear MPs, I never would have imagined that the High Assembly, Parliament, would be bombed.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0049par0461	I was there.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0047par0462	Yes, Mr. Ramadan was there, the valued MPs, and if I count them one by one, there were over 50 MPs, and there were those who weren't here, and there were my friends who were here, and I'm grateful for all of them. In this matter, the great Parliament has once again declared it to be the Veteran Assembly. I told you on a television show yesterday, and once again here, dear friends, this is what it says: Here, behind the High Assembly, behind the Parliament, is a unconditional nation. We need to put up a sign on the other side of the 26th term, and we need to call it the rest of the country. We've been faced with a Capitol painting like this. So it's very important. As far as I'm concerned, Congress has passed an important test in that sense. Before I actually have this conversation, Mr. Secretary, if he'll be so kind as to listen to me, the Minister of Justice insists he won't listen to me. Actually, if the lawyers are good at talking, if they're not listening, then there's something wrong with us -- Mr. Secretary, I wanted to talk to you first, but this conversation came out of nowhere. I'd like to share this with you. Look, there was an interesting incident at Artvin the night of the coup attempt, Mr. Secretary. We've submitted this to our Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, but I want you to know. In particular, look, if a city has suffered too much from the coups, Artvin is at the head of these cities, my dear fellow lawmakers. In the coup of September 12, 1980, Artvin really struck a lottery in almost every house. At the time of that coup, I was 16 or 17 years old, young, young, or rather, we didn't know what the coup was. The houses were raided, and they took men; and in the winter they brought them into the cold waters, and tortured them to death. Artvin teacher's school has been transformed into a torture center. So we come from a generation that knows what the coup d'état is. If we have to talk about this as a party, they've locked up the Republican People's Party's presidency, its institutions, the entire identity of the party in a sense, my dear friends. That's why we've come here knowing what the coups are, we've been victimized. Now, I'd like to share a case, Mr. Secretary. You of all people should know that, especially as Minister of Justice. Look, I'm going to count nine names at Hopa. These names include Ziya Civelek, War Taner Topal, Volcano Aydın, Ufuk Akbiyık, Erkin Koray Civelek, Akin Yılmaz, Modern Taylant Yılmaz, Mehmet Çelik and Tanju Topal. Nine young, shiny children, Mr. Secretary. There's been a big legal error here, a really big legal error. I mean, think of a city, in a city, that night, when people naturally -- like our people's reflex -- were going out on the street because there was a coup attempt. What's more interesting is that, of course, there's always been a social awakening, a city where the revolutionary base is dense, Hopa. In Hopa, when people are out on the street, the police invite people to the street, and they're surprised because for years young people have been going out on the streets in Hopa, why do you go out on the street, why do you do such democratic acts? Now, when such a reflex appeared that evening, the young people were surprised and said: "What happened in this country?" They were actually opposed to the coup, they wanted to develop anti-vice rhetoric, but unfortunately, when they saw the security officers' attitude, when they saw the response, they said, "Oh, sir, you're supporting the terror organization about this coup attempt." They wake up and say, "The prosecutor is in a bit of a hurry here -- I don't mean to pay attention to the words that I use -- a witch hunt is being launched that evening, 12 young people are being brought to the prosecutor's office, and you're being taken to the prosecutor's office after this coup attempt. We're facing a very important legal error, my fellow lawmakers. Nine young men, from July 15th to today, Mr. Secretary, are under arrest. There's a really big legal error, such a big legal error that there's a real disturbance in Artvin, Hopa, where we are. Lawyers told the prosecutor about it, couldn't tell him. I know the parents, I know the kids, there's an amazing painting. If you, the local MP, believe my sincerity in this matter, please, Mr. Secretary, make a note of it. I know it's hard to talk to the relevant Republican prosecutor, and I know it's coming to trial as a lawyer, but we're dealing with a genuinely historical legal error. I salute your grand delegation through the great House, the great Parliament, that these young men should be granted their freedom at once. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0050par0472	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Akar is the bidder of the proposal. Here you go, sir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'll give you five minutes.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0051par0477	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, honored members, I salute you with love and respect. First of all, I want to say that I cursed the low-down initiative on July 15th, and I hope and wish that the social agreement in Turkey, which was achieved after July 15th, will continue the same way, by agreeing on the laws Turkey needs, by determining the needs, together. Yes, what I'm bringing in today, in fact, may not be appropriate for the meaning and meaning of the day, but I think the House should also carry out its legislature duties. In doing so, I would like to point out that after 45 days, which has not been discussed in the commission, I would like to propose to the Parliamentary General Assembly, which, according to Article 37, is a essential requirement for areas like ours, especially ours, when you say our region, for areas of the industrial development. Yeah, there's a lot of industry out there, and as the industry progresses, we have to eliminate the problems that come with it when it turns out we need new industrial facilities. Last week, we passed the law that encouraged investment. It's not enough to encourage investments, but we need to eliminate the dangers that these industrial companies have brought. What's all this? The biggest, especially in our area, is industrial fires. Industrial fires, indeed, are the dangers created by these industrial companies, which have petrochemistry plants, refinerys, heavy industry, paint industry, and highly flammable material, like our region. I would like to give you an example of the Marcha earthquake, which occurred on August 17, 1999. A fire broke out in one of our refinerys, surrounded by tanks, and all the people in the region had to evacuate the area out of fear, and even the state's public institutions and organizations made publications about the evacuation of the region and evacuated the citizen. But under the rubble, we had hundreds of citizens. Believe me, we couldn't reach these citizens because the area was evacuated, and we lost a lot of our friends, our brothers, because our friends couldn't be reached, because they couldn't be interfered with. Now, with such a threat standing there, we have to intervene in an accident that could happen here with giant fuel tanks, LPG tanks, ammonia tanks, with our regular fire departments, which we use to put out the city fire, fire in houses, buildings. And so sometimes there are fires that last for days. Not just in the earthquake, see, after the earthquake, we were faced with a fire in a large refinery, a chemical fire in the plastics industry, an organised industrial plant fire, a paint factory fire, an automobile repair shop fire, a metal factory fire, and another chemical factory fire elsewhere. If a real professional fire crew were a team with special equipment, believe me, these fires could be extinguished very quickly without growing up, harming the environment, harming the lives of the citizen, and harming the property of the businessman who put that capital there. That's what we've prepared this bill for. Our proposal is to establish a fire department with special equipment here, in areas where organized industrial areas are dense, especially in areas where there are 12 organised industrial areas like us and hundreds of thousands of factories. He's got a plane, he's got a helicopter, he's got special equipment. I really think these are essential. Here we are faced with a coup attempt on July 15th, all of us, our House was bombed, our Assembly, which we call the Conclave, which we call "Gazi Assembly," was bombed, our Security Directorate was bombed, and if one of them had come to their senses and dropped a bomb on the refinery, God forbid, we would have no more citizens standing or saving their lives in the Shelley area. So, in order to ensure the safety of the citizens who live there in the future, both in terms of security and in order to ensure the safety of their lives and property, I'd like to submit this offer to your approval, and I think it's best that we do it together. If this offer were to pass, I really think we would have done a useful job for Turkey and our people in those areas. If you vote positive for this offer, I'd like to thank you all in advance. My respects, General Kurula.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0052par0486	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question motions, and we move on to the part of the agenda's "General Discussion and Parliamentary Research" preconceptions. On behalf of the EC PARTI Group Deputy Chair and Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Deputy Leader of the Group and Amasian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı and Deputy Chair of the Group and Aksaray MP İlkinur Enceöz, Deputy Chair of the Group and Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan, Group Deputy Chair and İstanbul MP Mehmet Mushan (10/276); On behalf of CHP Group Deputy Chair and Ankara MP Levent Gök, and İstanbul MP Engin Altay and Deputy Chair of the Group (10/77/77); On behalf of the group, you are investigating the group's involvement in the investigation of HDP Group (10/10/10) and on behalf of Peoples's Democratic Party's Democratic Party (AS/TK). Government? Here. Now, since the motions for parliamentary research to be discussed with you have not been submitted to information, I'm going to have them read it in order. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On Friday (July 15, 2016), an organized, planned and comprehensive terrorist coup attempt was launched against our country, our nation, our national will, our democracy, our common values. By the use of various levels of cells within the TSK, we demand that the Constitution be investigated by Articles 104 and 105 of the Turkish National Assembly, under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to investigate the measures that should be taken to ensure that such a process will never happen again. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Naci Bostancı İlknur İnceöz Deputy Director of the Group, Deputy Chairman of the Group, Deputy Chairman of the Group Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President On the night of July 15, 2016, a terrorist group of members of the Turkish Armed Forces attempted a comprehensive coup. This terrorist group, which has no response to public action, such as the use of any terrorist method, has put into effect a plan that we all closely follow in order to bring its will to rule the country: first of all, attempts to cut roads to create fear and panic against our President, to prevent transportation and communication, attacks against civilian areas that will try to resist, psychologically counter-influence the Assembly, bombing and fire of the nation's will, and armed, strategic attempts to attack the state, representing strategic security units that will stand against terrorist attack. The available data is that the structure, which has been highlighted as a terrorist organisation in national security documents and on the legal grounds for some time, has been carried out by organised gang members within the Turkish Armed Forces. Of course, legal and forensic studies will provide a more comprehensive assessment of the case. This coup attempt has a much different character than the coup attempt in 1960, 1971, 1980, 1997, 2007. The structure that we're dealing with here is a quality that has infiltrated various units of the state over a period of about 50 years, used all sorts of illegitimate methods to open the way for its supporters, has extraordinary secrecy as part of its organisation, and has targeted the most strategic places to compensate for its weakness. The ideological organisation is socioeconomic-based, self-inflicted, but right next to that, when they're trying to create sympathy for our people by exploiting their Islamic values, its proclivities are adorned with transnantal elements, and a spiritual dicd narrative is not neglected, so its fans are built on a character that surrounds both worlds with norms. This PDY click, nested inside the Turkish Armed Forces, appears to have set up the coup attempt on three main grounds on the night of July 15th: 1) By taking control of our President, preventing civil resistance that could be a threat to them. 2) By controlling media organs, give the impression that he has the power. 3) By attacking and taking over parliament and strategic state institutions, creating psychological destruction and building its own will on it. We must express immediately that all the plans of this coup d'état have been compromised, and they have been heavily confessed in the morning of the night. However, the terrorist organization left hundreds of martyrs and thousands of wounded in spite of the nation's resistance, causing heavy damage to the buildings of the most important institutions of the state. In this conclusion, it is very important for Mr. President to eliminate the attempt against him by calling our nation to civil resistance through the media, to call our Prime Minister's coup attempt to the streets to resist, to call on our nation to stand down, to make it very clear that CHP President Mr. Kemal Kılıçdaroglu has rejected the coup and held democracy, the HDP's anti-plot declaration, the MHP President-General, Mr. President Bahli's firm position in the same direction, and the democratic institutions' statements in the same direction. It has also played a key role in the removal of the coup threat, when TV broadcasters continue their broadcasts in a jointly anti-inflicted manner, and they continue to carry out a plan for a broadcast flow of democracy, democracy, the people, the nation's will. Without a doubt, the greatest part of the failure of this coup belongs to our beloved and heroic nation. As soon as our citizens from all parties heard of the coup attempt, they went out into the streets, delivered the coupters' tanks with their bare hands, and ended the reign of the coup klet on TRT. Our nation has not allowed this self-willed, self-absorbed disgrace to turn the weapons bought by the sweat of the enemy on its own. Investigating this coup attempt on our parliament's democracy, the will of the nation and its representative, how the process works from beginning to end, what kind of roles they play, how this organization is organized. It is important that he considers the matter in all its dimensions by setting up a commission on matters. We, the AK PARTY Group, present our motion to investigate every effective, legal and administrative measures involved in the effective fight against these illegal structures built within the state, in light of the above grounds. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On July 15, 2016, we propose the opening of Parliamentary Studies on Articles 104, and 105, as required by Articles 104, and Article 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine and determine the threats to our democracy and to determine the measures that need to be taken after this coup attempt, which led to the trial against our parliamentary democracy. Levent Sky Engin Altay Free Special CHP Group Deputy Chair CHP Deputy Chair CHP CHP Deputy Chair In the history of the Republic, in different times, there have been painful incidents in which soldiers intervene in democracy. The coups have not only stalled Turkey's journey to modern democracy, but have taken back the gains that have been achieved until then. With the political parties, all parts of society have paid the ultimate price for the coups. Unfortunately, the coups have so far not been dealt with in a genuine way, but the termical political interests have been put ahead of that goal. The fact that there is still the rule of September 12th law in Turkey is the most important indication that there is no real reckoning with coups. The attempt on July 15, 2016 revealed the fact that the climate that was the basis for the coups could not be eliminated. Of course, the political institution is also responsible for the situation. The implementations of political governments, which restrict freedoms, aimed at shaping society with pressure, have led to the failure of democratic culture in the country. The rooting of the political culture that feeds on dissolution of society has been the basis for coups. The main reasons Turkey is still facing a coup threat are that political parties lack autonomy culture. Turkey has reached a crucial crossroads following the July 15 coup attempt. The failure of the coup attempt is a triumph of our parliamentary democracy. With our political parties and the media standing behind the system with our people, the coup attempt has failed. In this regard, the coup attempt also presented significant opportunities at the point of resuscitation of the political climate in Turkey. After this stage, the tensions that dominate politics must be ended, and how our democracy should be repaired must be combined. At this point, all of our political parties are in historical position at the site of modern democracy. The traumas of society can only be repaired by the hand-in-hand of the political institution. The measures necessary to repair the damage that the coup attempt has done to our country's international image must be taken first. It is of utmost importance to consider the reasons for the custody and coup over parliament and the measures that must be taken at the point of the restoration of our democracy. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On July 15, 2016, I propose the opening of parliamentary research under the 104th and 105th Articles of the Constitution and the Interior Charter to determine the measures that must be taken, along with the reasons and consequences of the coup attempt and the dire events. On the evening of July 15, 2016, a group of Turkish Armed Forces attempted to stage a coup and take over the Republic of Turkey faced an extraordinary and illegitimate situation. One of the darkest nights in the history of the Republic of Turkey has been one of the most dark nights in the history of the Republic of Turkey, where a new military coup has caused the Turkish nation great suffering and deep scars. The General Staff headquarters was occupied on July 15th; police buildings, state television, private channels, intelligence agencies, roads, bridges, airports, military bases and regions were blockaded and attacked; tanks went out on the streets and our Veteran Assembly was bombed and shot seven times. Our citizens, who want to react in the streets against the launch, have been targeted by fire by the coupgers. On the night of July 15th, July 16th, 208 citizens were killed, 1.491 of our citizens were injured. This initiative has not only targeted elected government or lawmakers, but the entire Turkish nation, national will and all institutions of the Republic of Turkey. In this coup attempt, the Turkish nation's unity and brotherhood were targeted and our country was sought to enter a chaos. The July 15 initiative is an attempt to suspend democracy, to ignore national will. This initiative is not only against political power, any opinion, political party or policy, but against the will of the nation altogether. Therefore, political parties at the TBM have opposed this initiative as representative of the nation's will. The July 15 coup attempt is also an attack on the material and spiritual presence of the Turkish state. The possible outcome of the coup attempt would be that the Turkish state's authority could be shaken and the Turkish Republic, which is in a difficult geography, could have a very negative impact on the inside and outside. Progress in public administration following the July 15 coup attempt has also shown that the coup attempt should be closely monitored by developments in public administration. In two days after the launch, 103 generals and admirals, 30 governors, two members of the Supreme Court, 140 members of the Supreme Court, 2,745 judges and prosecutors, 7,899 police, 614 gendarmes, 47 skims and several military personnel were taken into custody. The detention of so many public personnel following the coup attempt requires that the coup attempt be investigated yesterday-to-day-to-day perspective of the July 15 coup attempt. In particular, it is necessary for military personnel who have attempted a coup to take part in the coup attempt by officers and officers who have been discharged from petty officers, such as Ergenekon and the Balyoz cases set up for the Turkish Armed Forces. As a result, Turkish democracy faces a new coup attempt, while the Turkish nation has claimed its will, obstructing non-democratic attitudes and search. The common future of the Turkish nation is law and democracy. The TBM should remove coup and coup d'etat from Turkish politics, depending on democracy, parliamentary system, constitutional system. In this framework, these individuals, particularly the coupters, must be fought without "buts, buts, buts," with elements that allow them to achieve the power and will of the coup. TBM must eliminate political differences and investigate all processes of the July 15 coup attempt through the Parliamentary research commission with reason and results. This research is the TBM's duty in front of history and law against Turkish politics. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate all dimensions of the coup attempt on July 15, 2016, and to determine the measures taken to ensure that such initiatives will never take place again, we submit the need for the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution. HDP Group Vice President HDP Group Vice President According to official statements launched during the coup attempt on July 15, 2016 at around 22:00 p.m., 265 people were killed and 1,440 others were injured, 104 of them soldiers. All countries who do not democratize their institutions, improve their rights and freedoms, shape balance-responsibility mechanisms democratically, operate through custody relations, and cannot reflect democraticization in all areas of society are always at risk of impact. Clearly, the constitution of September 12th has been a constant blow to it and its institutions. No practice and policy that does not experience the process of democratisation and is not democratic is nothing more than the creation of the mindset of a coup under such a constitution. The coup against the June 7th Assembly and the recognition of the will of the peoples, the removal of the June 7th Assembly, were a coup against democratic politics and the will of the people. The lack of recognition of the will of the people has led to the re-enactment of forces raised and not destroyed by Turkey's dark past due to lack of democraticisation. As a result of war policies in the region since July, cities have been destroyed, thousands of people have had to emigrate, and many of our citizens have lost their lives. Despite crimes against humanity committed in these destruction zones, an immunity suit was brought to the military as a punishment policy. Starting years ago in Turkey, the government has not taken necessary democratic steps, even though we have stated that coup mechanics is business and can be carried out at any moment as a living organism. After the November 1st elections, the process of narrowing down the democratic political area continued with the removal of immunity, and the people's will was once again challenged. No doubt the events of this process strengthened those who attempted the coup on the 15th of July. Where democratic politics retreats, the basis for the organisation of the mindset of the coup and the coup d'état forces is developing. The adoption of the separation between law, executive and judicial men, the destruction of cities and killing of our people, the disregarding of democratic reactions on the grounds of ideological separation, increasing polarisation, increasing hate speech every day, the wearing of fundamental human values, the determination of the majority's rights and freedoms, the demand of women's rights and freedoms, trying to be assigned to municipalities, and the desire of lawmakers to be subjected to arbitrary trials, and many more antidemocratic practices, and the coup attempt of many other antidemocratic practices on July 15th. The bombing of the council from the air is history as a major misdemeanor of the people's will. No power and no institution can obtain the will of the people through illegal ways and methods. No structure that sees itself above the will of the people will be legitimate, even if it is forced and pressured. In this regard, the development of democratic politics and democratic culture is our most fundamental responsibility. The fact that press organizations have been seized and are being asked to prevent the right to information and to avoid the position of public opinion has also come to our attention as the greatest setback in history. The right to public information cannot be blocked for any reason. Maintaining and improving this right is also one of our main tasks. In this context, it is vital for our democratic future as members of the bombed-out Assembly to establish a broadly integrated commission with full authority, full research, equal membership from each political party to reveal all links to the national and international coup attempt. It has been presented to your knowledge. According to our Interior Charter, the Parliament will be promised whether or not to open its investigation, in order to the government, political party groups, and the first signees in the motions, or to another signator. Their talking time is twenty minutes each for the government and the groups, ten minutes for the motion holders. Now, I'm reading the names of the following members: On behalf of the government, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, Minister of Justice. On behalf of the groups, Manisa MP Erkan Akçay on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mardin MP Mithat Sancar on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Engin Altay on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Hayati Yayı on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. On behalf of the proposed owners, Aksaray MP İlknur İnceöz, Muğla MP Ömer Süha Aldan, Muğla MP Mehmet Erdoğan and İstanbul MP Celal Doğan. Now, on behalf of the government, the first statement belongs to Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ. Here you are, Mr. Bozdağ. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0053par0575	Mr. President, I am in your presence to express the opinion of our government of the Fethullahist terrorist organization, which has failed to establish the common resistance and stance of our nation, our parliament, our politics, our media, our civil society, and the entire dimensions of the coup attempt and Fethullahist organisation and the establishment of a research commission in order to establish the results. I hereby salute your high council. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Honourable MPs, our Turkey is going through a historic period. July 15, 2016 was a black spot in both the history of our nation and the history of our democracy. But on the other hand, it has been a very important day for our nation, against black history, against the black day, our parliament, our politics, our media, every part of our civil society, every part of the public community to stand up together, to have democracy, national will, the Constitution, and these common values that make us who we are. Basically, the people who made this coup attempt were willing to do anything. While bombing the parliament and bombing the Presidential Palace, as well as bombing the Special Forces, as the teams who went to the execution of our President attempted to execute him, while holding the bridge and driving the tank over our citizens, aiming at armored vehicles, not watching, shooting and martyring many innocent people and hurting hundreds of our people, suggest that they set out on a course of savagery, risking many deaths. We all have a lot of stories about that night, every single member of our nation. I'm sure these stories will also guide us to the light of the matter. Here, a journalist wrote yesterday that the coup soldier who martyred two TurkishSAT workers in Turkey asked for water after martyring the workers. He takes the water, he kneels down, then he pulls the fanfare, he drinks water in three sips. The workers who saw it say, "Why are you killing these innocent people? Why are you killing them? Why are you doing this?" He says, "Well, he's a martyr. So we drank the sherbet of the witness, and we set out. Now, are you looking at the mentality? He believes that the civilian innocent he killed is a martyr, that he has gone to heaven; that if he dies, that he himself will be a martyr. How is that any different from DEAC logic? He feels the same way, he believes that his kills are martyrs, and that he himself will be martyrs. It shows the existence of a twisted religion, and a twisted belief in structure. Of course, it's not easy to deal with such a structure. Everywhere you look, there's a structure that aims at civilians, orders them to shoot, and there's a structure that doesn't bother us, and I said so -- we stood up with our nation, and together, with the power and opposition, the politics stood together, won, and the written and visual media fought together, and together, they won, and all the communities of the community stood together. This coup attempt has shown an important function at the point of uniting our nation - from the right, from the left, from any view, from any politics, our people have become strong against the coup. The parties almost disappeared, everyone became a member of the democracy party, a member of the national will party, and said, "No to violence, yes to democracy." Those who ran in front of the tanks were not only from a political party, but from all political parties, our fellow citizens. If we take possession of democracy, national will, Constitution, rule of law, our lives, our blood, as we did on July 15, 2016, any attack on our democracy, our national will, our rule of law will return as it did on the nation. We hereby offer our thanks and thanks to each and every member of our beloved nation, our House, our political parties, our media, our civil society, and to each and every one of our own people, who are not afraid to give their lives, their blood, for the failure of this coup attempt. At the same time, we had a first, but there were other firsts -- in the previous coup attempt, the political institution had always been silent, the power hat had been taken away, the presidents had been neutralized or kept silent at the beginning, and society had remained silent, and civil society had remained silent. Right after the coup, the newspapers came out with headlines praising the coup. Politicians were careful not to speak against the coup, and when they spoke a little balancedly, there were a lot of punctuators coming out of politics, the media, and the media, but the maturity of our democracy, the level that our nation has come to embrace democracy, and the awareness that our nation has now faced today in Turkey, even though they did not believe that it was the coup that the people had to say because of the wisdom of politics. Newspapers, media, what they all did -- in the open, at the beginning, at a time when it was not clear whether the coup would be a success or a failure. That's what the political institution did, the president flew to his death. Government, justice, everyone stood up to it, and that's a first. So democracy cannot be destroyed by tanks, by planes, by helicopters, by bombs, by automatic weapons, as long as the rule of human rights, rule of law, national will is owned by the nation, and then it can be destroyed. Thank God, a new value has been added to our common values today. So far, we've all come together to defend the country; we've said it was; we've said it was; we've said it was; we've said it was; it's been so; but from now on, democracy in Turkey and national will have become one of the common values of this nation, and there's no debate in that. Democracy is now the red line of all of us. When democracy was threatened and threatened, Parliament, politics, the nation all showed solidarity. Perhaps this solidarity was again set up in order to protect the constitutional order, about a hundred years after the Liberation War, in order to protect the constitutional order, just as Turkey was able to keep the people of all parts of the saintly nation pure and build an independent Turkey on that day. So I'm sure from now on, those who want to blow up dark clouds over our democracy, those who want to cut democracy down, will have to think about it trillions of times, never intend to. But after this coup attempt, if we say it's over, it's over, it's over. If we stop, then the new ones can be clustered. Because it's May 27th, 1960, we can't take precautions, the countdown to the new coup has begun. March 9th came, we couldn't take precautions, March 12th came. After the 12th of March, we were unable to take precautions again. The countdown to the 12th September coup has begun. If we can't take precautions after the coup attempt on July 15, 2016, the countdown to a new coup attempt has begun. It is our duty to continue our alliance with this Parliament on democracy, until, without hesitation, we carry out whatever must be done to ensure that there is no further coup in Turkey. There are three things that our people want from us, as far as I'm concerned. One of our citizens, who died in the face of this coup attempt, who were killed, who were wounded, who went to the squares, is from us: you have defied this coup attempt, bring those who attempt this coup attempt before the court, and let them answer to the nation. The extensions of these, clear their supporters from inside the state device one by one. That's message number one. Ask the bill and clean them up. It is no longer possible for the state to live with those who are betrayed, so it is very important that they be cleaned from within the government's operating device in accordance with the law. Two: this could be the aftershocks of the coup attempt. Last week, Fethullah Gulen, leader of the Fethullah terrorist organization, who has been driving and leading this coup attempt, made statements through the video. You followed him, and what he says is what was delivered to those who are now in the hands of the judgment: "Be upright, do not bow down, do not confess. If you stand up straight like this, history will write you with honor. This is how he gives them gas, supposedly motivates them, because the paragraph will write. And now he's writing to the United States government, "Don't extradite me to Turkey." He's practically begging. And I say: "Come out, instead of blowing up." It would be a better motivation for them if you came. Come to Turkey, if they are happy in the best possible way, if they are going to write history, then write you in better letters; line by line, paragraph. After him, calling every member of our beloved nation who made the coup attempt a move, taunting them for their joys because of the failure of the coup, he says, "This is not over." He threatens the nation as if I will leave your joys behind you." On the other hand, he threatens the parliament, the government, the media, the President, everyone, and if they survive, kill them -- we don't know if it's his order -- how they'll be humiliated, how they'll be humiliated, how they'll be humiliated; or if they die, they'll wish they were. He says. So he decides what we're gonna be in the afterlife, and he decides how long we're gonna live in the world. According to my belief, according to the belief of this committee, and according to the faith of this great nation, the only authority to decide what the life span of men is is the sole ruler of God, and no one else can judge except him. In the Hereafter, no man can decide who goes to heaven and who goes to hell. This is only a matter of the discretion of His Holiness. And if my Lord giveth me life, and giveth me life unto this house, and giveth life unto the saints thereof, even if the heavens send down death, they keep it in it. There are many examples of this, and that is what our faith and our faith require. But, when we look at it, we see that there's also this kind of perverted understanding here. This is an extremely dangerous situation. Another issue is our nation's message: prevent these aftershocks, but no more soldiers or civilians or anyone else in Turkey will have any thoughts about the coup. We will fight, we will succeed, and they will not have a conversation among themselves. They don't have that kind of agenda. For him, the Parliament, the government, everyone that the nation has given authority, take precautions. There is also a message in this regard. Another important thing about this structure is that it's organized, which is very important. See, now, the one closest to Mr. Chief of Staff, his driver, his commanding officer, his chief of staff, his bodyguards are coming out of there; he's been sitting in front of our president's car for years. After December 17th, after all the precautions, there are three of them, and three of them are coming out of there. There's a structure so secret that we all have to stand clear against it. This incident shows once again how much transparency, democracy, allegiance is a guarantee for all of us. We all need to see what this understanding is, how it's organized against his mother, against his father, against his brothers, against his wife, against his friends. For him, I care very much about the commission, as a result of the adoption of these research proposals, and as a government, we care very much. On the one hand, there's a process going on in the judiciary, which will continue, which I'm sure will reveal many truths. Because they're being debriefed right now, there's a lot of CCTV footage, a lot of computer records, phone records, a lot of written documents, a lot of information, a lot of documents. These will give us a lot of insight into its influence, its power, and it will reveal a lot about its influence in Turkey, except for its analysis, its evaluation, the information we have today, and I'm sure it will give us a lot of insight into the Fethullahist terrorist organization that has attempted this coup attempt. But while this is going on, it's also very important that our House stays on the subject for the people and investigate it thoroughly. How can they fool our children? How do they make him reject his father, his mother, his brothers? How do they turn a commander who's been in his service for years, who's been with him every day, into a monster who would lay down and stand on his head with his foot, to commit such immorality, betrayal, and an unconscionableness? This, of course, needs to be investigated, put in the middle. How do they infiltrate the government? Where, how are they organized? What do they do with each other, what information they have with this organization? It's important to look at why they're so desperate to control the government beyond serving within the government. From now on, we have to fight them in common, no matter who wants to take over the state. This state is a servant of all of us, of this nation, of this nation, of the nation of the state. We serve our nation in Congress, our state, and those who work in other institutions serve there. We'll go, others will come. I hope this state will continue to be this nation until the end of time, but if someone comes and says it's mine, we all have to stand up to it, no matter who it is. We all have our stories about it in the past. In the past, our friends have told us so much about this fethullahist structure, we didn't believe them; and after December 17th, we said so much -- I told Mr. Kilicdaroglu -- and after December 17th, you didn't believe us. We say that if we now believe in each other and continue to follow through on what we say, I'm sure that these structures will no longer pose such a threat or threat to the state. I already wish that the commission be blessed, that our democracy, our constitutional order, our legal state, and our national will, will have very important results, and that it will always be safe, and I commend all of you with respect to Allah.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0054par0592	Thank you, Mr. Bozdağ. On behalf of the group, the first word belongs to Manisa MP Erkan Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0055par0596	Mr. President, we're holding another important session following the July 15 coup attempt. I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the motion of the Parliamentary Research Commission, where the Turkish Grand National Assembly's decisive stance on the attack on national will is once again revealed. I salute your honorable delegation and the great Turkish nation watching us at the beginning of the screens. On the evening of July 15, 2016, a group of Turkish Armed Forces attempted to stage a coup, cause chaos, and take over, and the Republic of Turkey faced an extraordinary and illegitimate situation. On July 15th, it was aimed at the undivisable integrity of the state with its country and nation. Terrorists who have infiltrated the Turkish Armed Forces illegally have rained bombs and bullets on the Turkish nation. This is a terrorist act. This is a great betrayal to the Turkish nation and to the Republic of Turkey, the nation where they drink its water and eat its bread. The July 15th is the target of a treasonous coup attempt, and if carefully examined, it is seen to be a coup d'état. These scoundrels who infiltrated the Turkish Armed Forces have tried to turn the state against the nation against the military against the nation, against the military against the nation, against the military against the military, against the military against the police, but the great Turkish nation has stood in the face of this treachery and stopped its activities. The Turkish nation has once again shown that it is not an artificial entity and has torn apart the shroud of its existence as it passes through difficult days. The reputation of democracy has been saved. Of course, if we didn't have a national democracy and a state consciousness, we wouldn't have this will. By showing this will, we boast to each and every member of the great Turkish nation who opposes the coup. Dear MPs, the July 15 coup attempt has not only targeted the government, the President, the elected MPs, but the national will as a whole, all the institutions of the state of the Republic of Turkey. This initiative was not against any opinion, political party or politics, but against the will of the nation, against all democratic institutions. Therefore, we, as representatives of the nation's will, stand united against this initiative. Those who want to turn the Republic of Turkey into a tribal state are frustrated. It is now known that when the coup is successful, not only will it destroy the elected political power, but all institutions of democracy and completely destroy the democratic political field. The country will be in the grip of an uncertain dictatorship. Therefore, it is vital that the general population and its institutions reject the coup. This stance is a beacon of hope for the future of democracy. We need to deal with any terrorist activity, any coup attempt, with that sign. Notice that the Fethullahist terrorist organization has surrounded our state and our social life like a ur. From media to civil society, from bureaucracy to education, from the TSK to the police, a large area has been cut off; this is a siege. Our government has been asked to be brought down from within. On July 15th, the final move of this treacherous purpose is an invasion attempt. This attempt is no different from the projects of the imperialist servants in 1919 and later. Today, the three basic concepts that we need to hold tight and hold on to are democracy, national will and law. Our country today faces many problems in political, economic, social, cultural and foreign policy. We're looking for a solution to these problems in democracy. Our struggle is for democracy. The National Movement Party opposes any non-democratic search, and will oppose it. This is a principled stance, not a conjunctural stance. With the same stance today, it is the opposite of democracy, the coup and the actual situation, the end of it all. Nationalism and democracy are two branches of the same root, twin brothers. Democracy is the key to the idea of national integration. No solution to Turkey's problems except democracy, non-democratic search will deepen the problems. Black clouds have passed over our democracy through difficult trials. Our political lives are faced with a difficult test of democracy. As a nation, our overall struggle with junta custody may be desired to be collected by some of the interests of civilian custody. The democratic parliamentary system must reject all kinds of custody centers. The legitimacy of the parliamentary system is consistent with its struggle against these focal points. Turkish politics, on the one hand, must remove the incident of military coup from political literature, but must also be dealt with with by the efforts of individual guardianship, which are being pushed above national will. Yes, in Turkey, democratic life has returned from the abyss. Where's the destination? Will the destination be a cliff on the other side of the hill, or will we act on a democratic political path that is governed by institutions and rules? This is the national will that will decide, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Turkish nation used its preference for democracy ninety-six years ago, developed it as much as possible, and held its will above all else. The Turkish nation has closed off all roads and preferences against its will. For this reason, coup attempts and thoughts would mean insufferability for the achievements of our Veteran Assembly. In March 1920, when the occupation forces raided the Parliamentary Mebusan in İstanbul, our soldiers were martyred, many MPs were exiled to Malta. While Turkey was under occupation, the Greek cannons from Poland, 75km away from Ankara, worked at the Grand National Assembly. No one has ever done the slightest harm to the House. Even in the extraordinary conditions of the past, our House is open and functioning. On the night of July 15th, our Veterans Assembly was attacked by bombers. Seven bombs have been dropped and this attack with machine guns has not even been seen during the war. This is the Veterans Assembly, which established the government and the army, which ruled the Battle of Salvation. An attack here is a betrayal of our great nation. Dear lawmakers, fighting antidemocratic trends is our duty and responsibility. With this responsibility, we need to be supportive of all the illegal formations against democracy and to stay within the law to eliminate these formations. On the other hand, democracy is a system of negotiation and respect for differences before compromise. The quality that gives meaning to democracy is the expression of different opinions and then the combination around them. Under this principle, the Republic of Turkey is obliged to live and glorify democracy and the parliamentary system together. Our Veteran Assembly is a great legacy to all of us. We must protect and protect this legacy as we look forward to it. Dear lawmakers, the state government does not accept partners. As the National Movement Party, we are prepared to give any support to clear all parallel structures under public administration. In this context, we wish for the 15th of July to become a nation. First, we need to determine where it was wronged. We can't pretend nothing happened. Let's get the diagnosis right so the treatment will work out well. Of course, the traitors who attempt a coup will be tried and punished for what they deserve. However, it is the most important duty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to examine matters with perspective yesterday, today and tomorrow so that these events will never happen again. The parliamentary research commission, which will be established, must work on this principle. What are the reasons for what happened today? What happened yesterday? What could be the consequences of what we experienced today? In the research commission, the answers must be sought. In particular, military personnel who have attempted a coup should be examined with the importance of the coup attempt by the officers and staff who have been discharged from the officers and petty officers, such as Ergenekon and the Balyoz cases set up for the Turkish Armed Forces. In this commission, which we shall establish together, the weaknesses of governance, the techniques of governance, the data of governance sciences, and it must be examined in a way that is free of political debates. Dear MPs, understanding that wants to turn the crisis into an opportunity is requested. While the Turkish nation is martyring 246 children in the coup attempt, there should be careful avoidance of attempts to evolve into a personal and arbitrary government. The state must be governed by its institutions and rules within law and democracy. A government without that understanding is doomed to rot. On the evening of July 15th, we saw the extent of this ganging. From now on, new gangs should never be given the opportunity. We must quickly remove our country from the spiral of crisis and uncertainty and make all institutions of democracy healthy. We can't give up democracy because it's a compromise, a break from future and a break from future. As the National Movement Party, we have an attitude towards all sorts of non-democratic quests and attitudes. We will eliminate threats and harassment against the indivisible integrity of our country and our nation with democracy. The end of gangs, parallel structures, terrorist organizations that run projects on our country will always be a disappointment. We have political differences, of course, but it's a constant fact that we're all members of the Turkish nation. Our country is one; there is no east, west, north, south. Our state is one; it has no parallels, flats, triangles, pentagons. Turkey is the only one; there is no new one, no old one. We don't have countries to divide. We don't have a government to destroy. We don't have a country to tear apart. We won't have people to turn over to. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] We are the Turkish nation, the Republic of Turkey. We made an oath to live together forever, from separation and conflict, from Çanakkale in 1915, from the Battle of Sakarya in 1921, from the Great War of Sakaruz. We will work for the peace and quiet of our beloved homeland, we will uphold our democracy and our law, we will strengthen our unity and unity. We're not going to be conjunctural, we're going to be principled. On July 15th, as we oppose the coup attempt of a group within the Turkish Armed Forces, we will reject any actual situation. In an effort to turn the coup attempt into political gains, we will not all give the Turkish Grand National Assembly an opportunity. In order to fight coup attempts, within the framework of law and democracy, we need to run the current administration well. We must not be emotional, we must be realistic and rational. What we're going through is too deep to be personalized. With a full mobilization, we must replace the backbone of the state and the country. We're bound to improve the culture of compromise. We don't have to act with emotion, we have to act with reason. We will not allow our nation to divide on operating tables with alleged identity debates. Despite all the internal and external enemies that put the Turkish nation on the target board, we will continue to say, "Happy Turk." I would like to remind you of the warning of my grandfather, Korak, of the ages of old: don't be a hand, don't be a hand, don't be a hand, don't be a hand. The hand, the hand, loses its hand, its arm, its homeland, its flag, and its state. As a result, the coup attempt must be taught by everyone, all democratic political actors, without the issue of political or personal abuse. With all parallel structures, it is of special importance not to adopt a style that reduces social support for the fight against the terrorist organisation, not to act with any political agenda. On July 15th, Turkey claimed the existence of the Grand National Assembly, its will, its bold and decisive response to the coup attempt and attacks, opposed any attempt. It's very important. We have a great responsibility. Now we have an important opportunity to develop the democratic parliamentary system, democracy, the legal state. Turkey's Grand National Assembly must remove coup and coupism from Turkish politics based on democracy, parliamentary system, the Constitution. In this framework, these individuals, particularly the coupters, need to be fought without the forces and will of the coup attempt. It is crucial that the Turkish Parliament investigates all the processes of the July 15 coup attempt with the cause and results of its coup attempt. This research is the Turkish Grand National Assembly's duty in front of history and law against Turkish politics. As I end my speech here, I salute your honorable committee, wishing the commission to be a blessing and auspicious.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0056par0635	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. According to the People's Democratic Party Group, Mardin MP Mithat Sancar has been assigned to the People's Democratic Party. Here you go, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0057par0639	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We all witnessed a bloody coup on the evening of July 15th. A murderous junta attempted a coup, showing that it could kill people without blinking, causing many destructions. Once again, we curse and condemn. Once again, I salute the common sensibilities of society that prevented this coup from taking place. I salute from this place with respect and gratitude all the people who braved the streets to prevent the coup. I wish God's mercy to our very dear people who have lost their lives for this, my condolences to their relatives, my patience and my condolences to our entire community. It is vital that such a commission today present a common opinion on the establishment of a commission to investigate the coup. The establishment of a joint commission is an extremely valuable step in the fight against coup. Because the main requirement for preventing such blows, coup attempt, and coup attempt is to face these types of examples that have happened in the past and recently, in a genuine way, to deal with them, to deal with them. If you don't face it, if you don't deal with it, it'll repeat after a while, our history is full of examples. In our history, armed or postmodern coups have occurred, Mr. Secretary has just expressed that we have not been able to confront them as a parliament or as a community. There are disasters you can't face. This is an important result of political science and scientific activities from various fields. If you face it, you'll have a better chance of preventing it from happening again. Why would a society face such disasters in the past? To make sure it never happens again. The first and most important goal of confrontation is to prevent such attempts, such as murder, slaughter, oppression, intimidation projects from being tried again. Now, before we look at July 15th in concrete terms, I would like to briefly share with you the general factors that have caused these kinds of blows, the general reasons that are setting up the ground. First of all, the mentality of governance provides an important opportunity and opportunity for coupism in a country. If you see the state as a fortress that can be conquered, as a spoils to be shared, whether it is legitimate, legal, or illegitimate, couptic methods, there is always a society in which you think about taking over that state; there are groups, there are political circles, there are juntas. But if you turn the state into a democratic operating organization, if you turn it into a transparent, controlled, and legitimate public vehicle, maybe you'll block its impact ambitions at the root. The second important reason is that there is a conflicting environment in a society. If there is a conflicting environment, if there are hot conflicts, and the Armed Forces are being used in these conflicts, then there is a political power, a political advantage, the structure of the Armed Forces, whether it's in the form of juntas, whether it's in the hierarchical chain of command or whether it's in the armed forces. The third important reason is social polarization and political tension. If you divide the country into friendly/enemy camps, there will surely be groups that will take advantage of it that will aspire to form their own illegitimate, oppressive, murderous power. The fourth is the lack of democracy and the lack of a law state. In countries without democracy, in societies, or when it is weak and lacking, those who are eager to take power with a weapon will again surely come out. The fifth is deep social injustice and economic inequality. Now, why do you have to face those reasons? Why would a society face a coup attempt or an example of a coup? And that's to reveal how these reasons actually happened, the truth of the coup. When you find out these reasons, you take easier precautions, make it easier never to happen again. Now, let's try to reminisce about what happened when we came to the July 15 coup. We're trying to explain that the impact-producing factors and causes that I've been counting on have been very visible for some time, and we're trying to give warnings about this in various ways and ways. Ask these questions. We said, "On the floor of the assembly, on other platforms, but no one listened." For example, haven't law enforcement officers, on July 15th, shot people in cold blood, brutally murdering hundreds of people, ever done anything like this before? We've given you examples of such practices often taking place. If these practices develop, they will not be limited to a specific region and a specific goal, but will become a serious cause that threatens the whole country. Then, for example, when bombs were going off in Suruç, Ankara, and elsewhere in the country, while people were being slaughtered, let's look into the responsibility of the state. We went out, we asked, we made demands. What we've been told is that security has no weakness, the government has no responsibility here. Now everyone's talking about security weakness, which could be a subject to comics. For example, what's said to the president about when intelligence has been informed, when the government has been informed, is not really funny, it's tragic. So you should have heeded the warnings earlier. From the time the curfews were imposed, we often spoke to ministers on the floor of parliament and in private talks, where we saw a murderous group aim at people and places where they lived without blinking. We said that the structure that appeared there wasn't about the fight against terrorism, but that it acted in ways similar to terrorism. In fact, we warned in the open: "Look, these will cause you and the country a lot of trouble tomorrow. " The ministers we are interviewing are witnesses, and the Prime Minister of the period himself witnessed it. We've said it many times. ▪ These groups bring terrible things on the head of the country and on you. There is such an environment, such a intention. When we said these things, you attacked us, and tried to silence us. Whereas now you call them all -- say most of them -- terrorists. Look, most of the officers who have been relieved of duty have been assigned to the task force in charge of these operations. Without investigating these, it seems impossible to reveal the logic of this coup, the reasons for it. Again, every time we brought up the massacre in Roboski, you tried to silence it. We warned, we said, for a few reasons, it has to be investigated, the truth must be revealed. We said to those who were slain in Roboski, that we should apologize to those who are near of them, and those who feel their pain in their hearts; that those who are responsible should be brought forth, and that they should be judged, and that they should be punished. The Prime Minister of the period took full political responsibility, and I gave the order. Even if he didn't make it clear, he said what meant to end the matter. The ministers of the period blamed the murdered citizens there. They even used ridicule words. Now, today, a minister's file has to be reopened. I wish these warnings would have been considered then. As the ACK operations continued, we gave the same warnings, and look, here is a group of people who have been brought to justice who are running a political genocide operation. We said, "Well, that's not taken into account." What have the governments done in all these examples that I've counted and counted? They tried to silence the critics, accusing them of critics, and they were never willing to take responsibility when it came to political responsibility. I won't go into the matter of the fethullahist organization moving into the state for long. Today, our co-Chair spoke in detail at the group meeting. You call it a leak, but it's a secret; it's all in front of everyone. Those who warned on this subject were attacked with the most severe statements. The possession of a state, a community, or otherwise known as an illegitimate, illegitimate structure is not acceptable in any state of law, in any democracy. For years, the staffing has been going on in front of everyone. A lot of people who were detained today, arrested, declared traitors were put on duty with political decisions here, with the signatures of governments. When December 17th-25 came to light, we made a group proposal to investigate the December 17th-25th claims, but also to investigate the construction within this state. You said no. You said no, you refused. If you had then said yes to our research proposal, if Congress had seized this incident, maybe it would have gone a lot faster, and we wouldn't have had the sinister attempt that led to the disaster today or July 15th, but we'd be on the verge of a greater disaster. I think we have to accept that we have to face this condition: Yes, you didn't want to be questioned when the relationships with this organization worked for you, you let some kind of short-term pragmatic account, you encouraged us, and we came here. When I say that, I really don't intend to overturn the charges today. If we have a desire to face each other, if we are determined to eliminate the causes of the blows, we need to take into account those reasons and those factors, and look at the mirror with courage. So, what's to be done from now on? Let me put it in a very general order and try to connect it to today's event, and try to put it into context. For once, there is no confrontation with polarization and tension policy; it is the pursuit of confrontation, political dialogue and social reconciliation. You can't face antidemocratic methods, you can only face democracy by running it. You can't face revenge, you can't face truth and justice. Now, if we intend to take a virtue out of this disaster, we must avoid new ways of wounding. If our goal is to rebuild the state of law and democracy, we must never use anti-law state and anti-democracy methods. Of course, it is the state's right to investigate and judge those who are directly involved in the coup attempt, in accordance with this crime, in accordance with the law, but it is also its duty, but if an opportunity is to go to general liquidation knowingly, instead of trying to protect its own power and those close to it, I fear the ground will always be ready for the coups. You have to be open to everything. We all have to be open to it. Look, after the racist regime was resolved in South Africa, the truth commission was established. We can turn this commission into a commission of truth. The justice minister of the period stated why the truth commission was established: a short, clear and clear statement: The truth hurts, silence and silence kill. [[Applause from HDP rows]] If instead of facing the truth, you continue to silence and avoid confrontation with those who say it, this society will rot and dissolve. But even if the truth hurts, it can take us to better places. I salute you all with these feelings. I hereby repeat my belief that we will proceed on this path.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0058par0664	Thank you. The third word on behalf of the groups belongs to İstanbul MP Engin Altay, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. By the way, for the first time, the sun rises in our Parliament, and that night's work, the icy glass there is broken. It rained down on us like a light, all together because we did a good job. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0059par0669	Thank you, Mr. President. That's right, and I noticed that it was sitting on your face, and now it's around the government, and then we're going to see that light on the nation's stand. This is actually the light of democracy. The light reflected in the broken glass of the Veteran Assembly is a light that increases our future. Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. On the night of July 15th, I congratulate all the MPs who are actually here, whose heart is here. I'm telling the people of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to get well, and I'm saying this is the last time, and I truly believe that this is the last time. Members of parliament were introduced to post-war republic democracy in 1950. Over the course of sixty-six years, our republic's democratic quality has faced six interventions. All my political life, me and my party have taken a stand against all non-democratic interventions, no matter where they come from, no matter where they come from. There have been a lot of incidents in Turkey that shouldn't have happened, and I curse them all -- 1960, 1971, 1980, 1997, even 2007 and 2016. From now on, we don't know the heads of this nation in front of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. (HPP and AK PARTY) With that understanding, we also see that it is a great necessity for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to continue its course with the appointment and the format determined by the national will. The Prime Minister told me, and I told you, a plague is better than a thousand advices. We've spent two days showing us that this July 15th has taught a lot to all political institutions, particularly the ruling party, but beyond that, it has strengthened our democracy, its virtue, its virtue, its virtue, 78 million understands its blessing, its internalization and embraces it. Now, I have the group proposals of political parties. The ruling party:.... is to investigate the measures that must be taken to ensure that such a process will never happen again........ the nationalist Action Party:.. to determine the measures that must be taken by means of the cause and consequences....... to determine how to repair our democracy, and to determine the measures that must be taken by which four political parties will be established in the Turkish Assembly. The purpose of the commission is to make Turkey uninterrupted to our democracy no longer, to register that there is no power above the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, that sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally and unconditionally. This commission will conduct such a study and will share its results with the public. [[Applause from CHP and AK PARTY]] One of the main tasks of the Turkish Grand National Assembly is its many duties, but one of its important tasks is to oversee the executive body. In this framework, in light of this work, there are major and important tasks that fall to the executive body. Congressmans, I'm saying three things repel this coup, 3M sprayed it, which just occurred to me: people, Congress, the media. 3M blew out the tanks, democracy won, democracy won. Congressmans, now there are three things that need to be done after this stage, three things that need to be avoided. If we can do these three things, if our government and Parliament, all the political institutions, parties, civil society organizations, everyone, with all the layers of society are agreed on these three things, and we all avoid the three things that I'm about to say later, then it's possible to crown Turkey with the democracy he met sixty-six years ago. There is still no way to talk about full democracy, liberal democracy in Turkey. Democracy is not just about the House being open, it's not about the parliamentary seat, it's about the people speaking on behalf of the nation. Democracy, at the same time, is the rule of law, the freedom of the media, the equality of the law for everyone, the equality of everyone in the eyes of the law, the law, justice, the right. Their facility is our duty. When we look at it like this, we need to do three things fast. No doubt the first thing we all agree on is to ask sharp accounts from the coupgers, settle accounts, and determine the maximum amount of punishment they deserve. We need to make sure of that. (CHP and AK PARTY) So no one should get away with it. There's a need for a reckoning so severe that no one will even think of raising their heads to the government and to the nation anymore. It has two legs; it has one leg of legislature, so there are things that have to be done by Parliament, and there are things to be done by the judiciary; however, the executive body has work to do. In doing so, as we do this reckoning quickly and violently, we need to make the maximum effort for the government, first of all, to complete an important job in power, and to ensure the rapid supply of social normalisation. If social normalisation is not achieved, I can't believe that Turkey's path is completely clear for our democracy. Thirdly, however, this Assembly must do quickly what it needs to strengthen democracy by leaving aside all ideological concerns, political consolidation accounts, not only to make our democracy so-called, but to really strengthen it. In doing so, all three things must be avoided by the House and its political establishment. These three issues are: once and for all, we also have to avoid certain issues in dialogue with society in politics, in politics, in politics, in politics, in politics, in politics, in the field, in Anatolia, in areas, in public, and avoid certain abuses. These are the following, lawmakers: I'm not aiming for a party, I'm saying it applies to four political parties. We shouldn't do politics in this country through lifestyle. We shouldn't open new dimensions, windows to politics through lifestyle. In the same way, we should not do politics on the axis of faith, we should stay away, we should see these two things very, very separate and separate from each other. And third, we have to put an end to the way we do politics through ethnicity, through race belonging, through style, understanding, and approach. And let me say, sincerely and truly, the political institution, these political parties, if we avoid these three issues, I see from here that Turkey and our democracy are very clear. Your goal is 2023, which is this. Our goal is to protect us from the founding will, and to protect us from the troubled civilization of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. All of the other political parties' goals are good for Turkey, for our citizens, positive, but there is no other way to achieve them. We don't camp society, we don't polarize society, we don't divide people. The politics of separating people from the Alevi-Sunni (Alevi-Sunni) and this country is the same thing that the July 15 coupkers did to this nation and this country, by separating them from the Turkish-Kurt (Turkish-Kurt); this is the same thing. (H.P.) We need to take care of this, avoid it. This nation is our nation, and we have come out of the heart of this nation, and this land is our ancient land, and our ancestral land; we are born in this land, and we die in this land. We all feel the same when we see this flag. This flag is worth what it means to you and to us. We're all proud to live under this flag. When our national anthem is played in a national game, when a success is achieved, I get goose bumps, and the AK PARTI MP's, and the National Movement Party's, and the HDP's, if so, it hurts us to scratch out some of the sensitivities that I'm going to get a little bit more votes in politics, but in essence, it hurts this nation and this country. Something else was seen in this blow. We've lost a lot of lives. Of course, I remember, I keep thinking about it, but on the night of July 15th, we cherish and thank the martyrs of democracy that we lost. God has already given them paradise, and I have no doubt about it. I have no doubt that the rest will be held by our Parliament or our government or our government, and in this way, we find the decisions made by the Council of Ministers yesterday appropriate, but this incident has brought with it some gains. Look, if you've noticed, we've been particularly careful not to make it polemic since then. The polarization of these issues, trying to gain something in politics on these issues, is treason, dishonor; we take care of not doing so as a party. The gain is that we always said democracy is a regime of reaction and protest. We said, "Meydans and streets are the temple of democracy." And from time to time, some of our citizens, who wanted to exercise this response and protest by government officials, were sometimes accused of being terrorists, not by a Molotov bottle, not by a stick, not by a gun, but by being completely peaceful. But the only way to get out of our state, without making an attempt on our nation, was through the squares, and the streets were the addresses that night, Mr. President. I see it as a win, not a criticism, it's what's supposed to happen. The nation went out into the street, and the nation took over the Turkish Grand National Assembly and democracy over it. This is a great happiness for 78 million, and to me, the Republic is one of the most important moments in our history. As I just said, as I've always said, this nation has absorbed, embraced, and internalized democracy. For him -- sometimes we argue with friends -- I've never been worried about Turkey's future, and I don't hear it, and I don't have a doubt that with this 90-year experience, this sixty-six-year experience of democracy, that Turkey will have its will and its will under all circumstances. No doubt, although the blows seem to be being done to power, the coup is done here, because this is the place that brings power out of it. So, sir, this is what we're doing, this is what we're doing. He is the executive body of the national will. (CHP and AK PARTY) And the Republican People's Party will shield your chest, as it has been before, against any tank against it, against the ball, no one will hesitate. However, this occasion has been a declaration of beauty, the right to resist. I consider it a great gain for our democracy, but, of course, when I say the right to resist, I mean a central constitution, a right to resist within the framework of the law. And again, in fact, at the beginning of the measures used in all four of these parties, which need to be taken... now, of course, when we talk about it one-on-one, the ministers say that the state had forgotten its driver's license and its merits, or it wasn't much taken care of. No matter what we say, there's no point in talking back. In the new era, at this time when the state will be rebuilt, it must be understood and understood that the state will only succeed those who govern the state, if the state is to be above all else. Given the state's driver's license and merit, there is no question that the government, no matter who it is, will not succeed, so the party that the government has come out of the government, will not succeed in the elections. People vote for the ruling party he chooses to lead the state, not to be staffed in government with ideological opinions, beliefs, or political interests for different political reasons, to surround the state. And I hope that's been made very clear on this occasion, and I see that, too, I'll tell you that. However, we are facing a problem that has a public conscience on our hands. Of course, there's a saying that this reckoning is not easy, that there's a saying that age burns along with the rule, and they say, "Our Sinop is not easy, neither is it everywhere." Such road accidents are bound to be a violation of rights, but it is also imperative that the government, state officials, show maximum sensitivity in this matter. If an innocent is to be unjustly imprisoned one day or in a police station, let a thousand criminals and suspects wander the streets. The government will find him sooner or later, and he'll be on top of him. With that understanding, the matter needs to be dealt with. So, as the media and the public have a lot to talk about, it's our duty to wait for this reckoning -- as I say at the beginning of my talk -- to do this very sharply and quickly -- to do this reckoning, and not turn it into a grudge and revenge process, not to turn it into a projection of the government from within the ruling party. It's our duty to take care of the victims and the oppressed, and it's our duty not to hurt people; it's our duty to oppose the unnecessary seizure of people's rights, fundamental rights, and freedoms. When looked at like this, lawmakers, there may be no particular ulterior motives; perhaps because of a high sensitivity, a high sensitivity of public officials, officials, from the oasis of the coup attempt, from a reflex born of low and treacherous form. It's also possible to understand that to some extent, but come and warn the government. It is a humanitarian responsibility to warn public officials and officials to be more thorough, not only for us, but for you. That's what we're all here for. If anyone gets a nosebleed, we're in charge of this House. We predict that it would be easier for you to look at it with that understanding. One dimension is the detentions and operations of some members of the media, members of the media, and members of the press. I just told you, I said 3M repels this blow: I said, "People," I said, "Meclalis"; I put "Medija" in the 3rd place. Really, the attitude of private channels is admirable, so let's sit down and talk straight. At this point, there is a need for this kind of arrest for media members, and very high sensitivity for detention processes. The journalists shouldn't be arrested just because he made a report, because he made a comment. If he's involved, if there's a relationship with the terrorist, let me try to get a hold of him, but arresting a journalist for commenting would hurt the fight against this terrorist organization. I want to underline that, too. There's a lot to be said in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but the President won't give us an extension, it seems. One concern is that there may be attacks and events and actions to create chaos, and that's what I'm afraid of. I respectfully salute the General Assembly, sir, with all of us concerned and concerned about the need to act on this responsibility.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0060par0694	Thank you, Mr. Altay. The last word on behalf of the groups belongs to İstanbul MP Hayati Yazı (Scriptor) on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Printer.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0061par0698	Mr. President, on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, I salute you and our beloved nation who have listened to us. We are a nation that has established a state throughout history. We exist in every stage of history. We have powerful historical savings, common heritage, cultural wealth. So I would like to address an important issue, inspired by the speech of my friend who just spoke while planning to conduct my speech in a different way. The EC PARTY has always been primitive since its institutional existence in Turkish political history. We have corporate responsibilities. We've always shared this with the public, you and I, in the House. We said one country, 780,000 square kilometers of country. As of today, Turkey has a population of 79 million. Is there anyone who is a citizen of the Republic of Turkey who doesn't share 780,000 square kilometers of land? The 79 million are all shareholders in 780,000 square miles of country land. Our motherland is one, all of us. The flag is our common value. We said so. It's made up of two colors: red-and-white. Color represents the blood of our martyrs who made this country our homeland. Is the blood of those who work for this country, the people who fight, the martyrs different color? No, they're all red. That's where he gets that color, regardless of race or ethnicity. This is our common denominator. Our state is the Republic of Turkey. Is there a community without a government, a cluster? Everyone's government, 79 million. And finally, we're a nation, but in our nation's understanding, there's no ethnic definition at its depth; there's values that make human communities a nation; there's common history, cultural heritage, we have beliefs, we have customs. Here's the name of the big cluster, which includes all of them, people, and so we've come. We have a social responsibility. We've raised our social responsibility under three topics. We will never do ethnic nationalism. We said and did not. We're not going to be religious nationalists. We used it, even though it may have led to mistakes, in terms of the perceptions of the segments that supported us. And we'll never do regional nationalism. We walked like this, and this is the social parameters of our politics.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0062par0702	I didn't criticize you, but I spoke in general.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0061par0703	No, Mr. President, I'm not accusing you, I'd like to present a title, a dibace. And we have individual responsibilities. We're not going to cheat, we're not going to cheat, we're going to take the driver's license and the merits. These are the parameters of our road map. That's how we walked, that's how we came. Dear MPs, on the night of July 15, 2016, our country had one of the most dire events in our history, really -- as all speakers underlined. Terrorists belonging to the Fethullahist terrorist organization, nesting within the Turkish Armed Forces as a species, dared to attempt a national plot against national will. This gang of betrayals is essentially an attempt on our beloved nation, our elected President, against the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, against the Government of the Republic of Turkey, against our national institutions and organizations, which are also elected by the votes of the people. It's a coup attempt to target all the institutions that have created us as a state. For centuries, the Turkish nation has faced repeated acts of treason. As we've just been told, there have been six successful coup attempts that we've observed so far. In the coup carried out by terrorists in this country on July 15th, in the coup of the Fethullahist terrorist organization, they proved that they were mad enough to bomb the state's vital institutions, especially our Veteran Assembly, to open fire on civilians, and they showed that one of the main targets of these acts of terrorists was President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, elected by the people of the Republic of Turkey. He will take the head, he will take the living, he will take the guide, he will take the visionary, so that there will be chaos in society, and there will be civil war, domestic turmoil in Turkey, which is very important in this geography, and they have targeted it and attempted to carry out the action. When the President of the Republic of Turkey first got the opportunity, he called out to the nation through the televisions with his stand, with his courage, with his vision, and our beloved nation, who began to go out in front of the coupgers, in front of the cannons, in front of the tanks, shielded his chest, prevented the coup. Dear lawmakers, this bloody coup attempt was blocked by both our nation's conquest as an example to the entire world and the defenses of our conscious security and security forces; the nation is united altogether. On the night of July 15th, the spirit of Çanakkale rose and the spirit of our nation echoed throughout the world. That night, our nation wrote epically in every corner of the homeland -- not just Istanbul, not Ankara. The treacherous plans of this ring of betrayal, the heroic spirit of our nation, were destroyed by the spirit of Çanakkale. That night in our country, people who had all kinds of political views fought on the streets and left their country to these vile terrorists. On that long night, there was a new struggle for sovereignty. In Turkey that night, politics really stood in common. There was big Turkey in the streets, in the squares, with his old and young, with his power, with his opposition, with the nation itself on the streets. Before the roof of our High Council, I would like to thank our beloved nation, every citizen who stood up for their country that night, and their heroic families on behalf of our group. Dear lawmakers taught us a lot on the night of July 15th. That night, the whole world saw how our nation was united, how it supported each other, and how it defended this country for democracy, for independence. On behalf of the citizens who claimed their country that night, those who stopped the tanks under the bombs, our citizens who filled the squares in our 81 cities, those who prayed in their homes, those who sincerely supported them, on behalf of our group. On the 15th of July, I pray for the mercy of God to our security forces and to our citizens and to the wounded, who stand by the legitimate government, to bear witness on their behalf. Our martyrs and wounded, who honor their country with martyrdom, protect it with their lives, are truly the only sons of this country. These people will never forget these children. Mr. President, the most valued lawmakers have shown the world how to be a nation. This noble position of our nation has also investigated our march of democracy, while it has been a valuable page in the history and political history of the world. The will of our people has defeated weapons, tanks, fighter planes. Our nation has taken care of its country at the cost of its life and saved its future. Our struggle with these evil centers that have lost their mind, conscience, and faith will continue until our last breath. We can't thank our saintly and noble nation enough. Dear MPs, Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, as Mr. President of the Republic has said, we are proud to be a member of such a heroic nation, and we are honored to be a MP in the House of such a heroic nation. Hopefully, we'll continue our next work in a way worthy and worthy of the greatness and heroism of our nation. Mr. President, on the night of the 15th of July, our nation and those who deserve the biggest thank-you, as I just said, our heroic police are coming. So they ignored their lives and ran for their country's defenses and wrote epics on all the streets of Turkey with our nation on all the streets. In addition, our soldier, who should not be confused with this terrorist group, has done his duty with honor. I give thanks to our heroic army and to our group. On the night of July 15th, our political parties joined together with his power and opposition to our country's indivisible integrity. While the nation's representatives were fighting for sovereignty in the squares, the nation's representatives held firmly to the trust of the nation under the roof of the Veteran Assembly, holding on to democracy and national will. In his council, you stood up and stood up to protect the trust that the nation gave them, no matter what political opinion our MPs had. Under helicopter attacks, armour-piercing bombs gathered the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, carrying out its work. On behalf of our group, I want to express my gratitude to every member of this Veteran Assembly, especially our Speaker. In particular, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the presidents of the Republican People's Party and the People's Movement Party on behalf of our group, as we acted very quickly that night, and to the decisions and explanations of our country's unity and unity. No doubt one of our media organizations deserves the biggest thank-you. They have once again shown to our country and the world what journalism, what publishing is, and how it should be done, and many of our media members have actually fought heroically against coup terrorists in their organization. And once again, we would like to thank them on behalf of the AK PARTY Group from the National Assembly, the People's Assembly. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this victory belongs to the entire nation, not to any division or party, but to all of us. With its power and opposition, our political parties united against treacherous coupgers, the level of democratic maturity that our country's politics has reached has shown the world. Today, our nation, our republic, and our democracy are stronger than ever, and our country is much more prestigious. Mr. President, we're going to fight the high-profile lawmakers, the terrorist organization, the fethullahist terrorist organization, and the rest of them within the law. The July 15 coup attempt revealed how great the threat to our country was. Our government has waged a major and decisive struggle with this terrorist gang with its members, and it has sped it up even more after that. Our fight is with the Fethullahist terrorist group that attempted the July 15 coup attempt. Our people have made a common stand in unity and unity, and we are determined here to continue this joint stance under the roof of the nation's Assembly, to continue side by side with this terrorist organization. In the process, our cooperation is extremely important. Hopefully, we'll maintain this cooperation at the highest level. Dear MPs, in this regard, I would like to say that I find the summit held yesterday at the Fivetepe. I won't use that word, I won't use a plague, I won't use a thousand words of advice, of course I have respect for those who use it. But on July 15th, the mass of the nation around common values, the common stance of political parties against democracy, the integrity of the country, to take over the institutions that govern the state, to wage a civil war in our country is vital for our country. We need to run politics on projects, not on values. Political competition should be done on projects. Country, I'm going to repeat what I just said -- we all have the flag, we all have the one nation, we have the state, we all have the Ataturk. Why can't Ataturk be yours and ours? He's our commanding officer. He is the leader of the Republic, the Commander-in-Chief of our Imperial War. Does anyone object to that? All of us. Religious values are for all of us. Citizens of this country, who worship and do not, have equal rights. Rights are important. We'll take a look at these. The conqueror is all of us, Osman Gazi is all of us. That's how we're gonna look, that's how we're gonna walk. Hopefully, from now on, we'll run our politics on projects as rival parties, we'll compete with projects, we'll continue our race as visionaries for the future of the country, we'll keep values, we won't blame each other if we don't participate in them. Yeah, I see I'm out of time. Again, on the basis of the coup attempt by this notorious gang group, the armed organization, the Fethullahist gang, all groups, their reasons, their settlement within the state, their methods, their internal, external connections, and the motion for research to determine measures that need to be taken, I would also like to say that I find them very valuable and valuable. And lastly, let me make one thing clear. Dear lawmakers, this great assembly is stronger together... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, could you give me a minute?
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0063par0726	Complete it, Mr. Printer.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0061par0727	...for the common denominator of this saint nation is much more powerful, shoulder-to-shoulder, and politics is much better when politicians meet in the common denominator of our country's gains and values. I salute you all with the desire to meet in beauty, in goodness.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0063par0730	Thank you, Mr. Printer. Thus, the words for the group are completed.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0064par0732	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0063par0733	Mr. Akçay, here you go, I promise you for a minute.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0064par0736	Thank you, Mr. President. At the beginning of the speech, I would like to briefly express my views on certain expressions, not to create any discussion or polemics. We need to use the concepts correctly and properly. Our party is called the National Movement Party, and we are being sensitive about the concept of nationalism. Now, he spoke of ethnic nationalism, Mr. Printer. There's no ethnicism, there's ethnicism, that's racism. Nationalism sits on the foundation of a nation, and people are a different sociological phenomenon than etnisity, and our nation is called the Turkish nation. It's not regional nationalism, it's regional. A concept called regional nationalism is not scientific at all. Neither sociological nor...
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0065par0741	Mr. Akçay, please complete.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0064par0742	There's no religious nationalism, so it's not just a concept called religious nationalism. If it's something, you can only refer to it as religiousism. No religious nationalism. So I think it would be helpful to use expressions and concepts in their place, to improve the culture of reconciliation and to give the right message to our society. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0065par0744	Thank you. Mr. Printer, take the stand, and I'll give you my word for a minute.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0066par0748	Sir, we made a statement in a political language; you contribute, it becomes scientific in the way you want it, but what we say is true. For example, we're not going to do regional nationalism. The country's resources are limited, its resources are limited; when we use them, when we devote them to projects, we set priorities. How do we establish the country's strategic superiority? We make the investments according to it. So this is the Black Sea region, let's do it here; this is east, southeast, let's not do it there, let's do it over here... It's a word that we express in this sense, it's an expression. That's how it's supposed to be understood. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0065par0750	Thank you, Mr. Printer. Yes, the first word on behalf of the motion holders belongs to Aksaray MP İndınur İnceöz. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Incescuz. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0067par0761	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have been promised a motion to investigate the coup attempt by the Fethullahist terrorist group on the evening of July 15, 2016. I hereby salute your high council, our Veterans Assembly. On the night of the July 15 coup attempt, we had fellow lawmakers here, along with the title of Veteran Parliament members. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] Yeah, I think it was one of the longest nights of the century. None of our friends, who were here in Parliament that day, had any concern, I want to express it in particular. When everyone is thrown out into the street, at the time of the treasonous coup attempt, I pray to God for mercy, for our wounded, for those who shield their bodies against tanks, for F16, for those who challenge the helicopters, and risk to give their lives heroically for it. Because of what happened here that night, especially our Commander-in-Chief, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our Prime Minister, our ministers, the Veterans of the Gazi Assembly, the veterans of the coup attempt, who showed the world a hero's example of the coup attempt, who saw everything as a deterrent of giving his life for his country, and who was not afraid to give his life for his country, I salute our sainted nation, especially in the presence of the veterans of the Gazi Parliament. However, we must make the distinction in the coup attempt on the night of July 15th: within the military, but not the whole soldier. We're not supposed to put all the uniforms under this charge. I want to express my gratitude to our very heroic, very hard-fighting soldiers and to our law enforcement officers. And I want to thank the MPs who were here that night, regardless of the party's distinction, to all of our political differences, to all of the parliamentarians who are here, who are all of us, who are our spokesman here, to all of the media organizations that have somehow been effective in announcing this coup attempt to the public, connected to televisions. This stance, when we look at the past period, when we look at the past coup attempts, when we look at the past revolutions that have resulted, was the first time in Turkey as a nation, and it was very important in that sense. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, we specifically say to this terrorist organization that we are dealing with a very sneaky, very treacherous terrorist organization. Here, this terrorist organization has infiltrated, infiltrated the state for years, and, in some way, it has tried to take over many levels of the state, including the military, including the Turkish Armed Forces, and we all saw a face we hadn't seen before on the evening of July 15th. We have witnessed, for the first time, that the veterans, the veterans, the veterans, the soldiers who had been trained in self-use against the enemy, the artillery, the tanks, the rifles, the helicopters, the F16. In Ankara, especially the Parliament, the General Staff, the Presidential Covenant, the MIT, the Lakehead...
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0068par0768	Şırnak...
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0067par0769	...a movement has begun in Istanbul, including places such as the Bosphorus Bridge, and important institutions in Turkey, such as TRT, have been tried to be invaded in such channels as the broadcaster CNN. Together, we were smaller in the 1980 conflict, we saw the nearest 28th February 1997 process, we saw the April 27th-Episode, and there was talk about the existence of other coup attempts, but we all witnessed the actions of this bloody terrorist organization, the coup attempt. That night, Mr. President, the President's phone call to our commander-in-chief and his invitation to the squares may have changed the course of this coup attempt, or what's happening to each of us? In that sense, I express my gratitude. There are some very important stories here, and each of our citizens, our martyrs, our wounded, have stories to tell for years apart, perhaps. But I can't help but say that if past coups, deadlines, certain attempts at revolutions had been achieved in time, for example, if the 1960 conflict had been prevented, for example -- if our population had received news there and what had happened -- then our prime minister would not be hanged, our ministers would not be hanged, and unfortunately, when we returned to our political history, he would not have stood there as a black spot in the 1960 conflict. Look, when the 1960 conflict happened, our national income per person was $583 at that time. One minute, there's a revolution, ten years of growth is suddenly dropping, from 159 dollars to 583 dollars a million dollars, $224 is dropping in less than seven months, and it's down to $359 dollars in less than $39. There's an economic dimension to the impacts here, in terms of countries, which we've always experienced, the 28 February process is the most important waste of human resources. We've all testified together in past revolutions and coups that our women were left as headscarves, that they were deprived of education, that the coups were mortgaged on the futures of the countries. And that's what separates this coup attempt from any other blow, which is the bloodiest in that way, with the infiltrations, with the formations within the state, and unfortunately with the impact on the night of July 15th. And when I say so, all the coups, all the attempts, all the coup attemptes, all the credits, once again, in the presence of our beloved nation, are condemned, cursed, the sovereignty of Aslolan is unregistered and unconditional. I say so, and as long as there is a will in our nation and the representatives of our nation, it will remain that way, no one will doubt it. I can't get past one particular point here. When the events of December 17th and 25th took place in the past period, we made it clear that this was a coup attempt. As a brother of yours who worked on that commission, who looked at those reports, I would like to point out that the statements were taken a long time ago, and I would like to point out once again that the initiative of December 17th and 25th was in fact a political assassination, as well as that it was not a bloody attempt on the people's will. Dear lawmakers, the union that was held here on the night of July 15th, and yesterday, at the top, president level, the acceptance of Mr. President, so far, all parties, our party deputies, together, have really fallen down as a note in history. In addition to this historic coup attempt, this union is a process of exemplary behavior, as well as how we can be together, if our country's future is at stake, if our country's future is at stake, if the future is at stake. It's really admirable in that way. That's how much I care about the work of the research commission, which will be held today by all four parties to present their own motions. We care a great deal about the work of this commission, how this coup attempt was done to them in the first place, over the years... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll finish my vows.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0069par0776	I'm not, Mr. Incescuz, you know, but please complete.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0067par0777	I'll be done in a minute.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0070par0778	It could be positive discrimination, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0069par0779	Well, finish it.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0067par0780	I'm saying what measures must be taken, what must be taken from the first time since the July 15th evening, when they've camouflaged themselves, how they've attempted, how they've attempted, and how they've attempted a coup, and the first time they've broken historically from here, to never face a blow again, and what should we do about it, and what would this research commission have to do in view of a work that would shed light on the future, that everyone would stand up against the objective, the coups, everything, at the point where they'd question everything, at the establishment of an efficient, effective research commission. I'm just saying thank you to our friends, the congressman who's been contributing to the whole process, who's going to be on the research commission, who's going to contribute, and I want you to make it easy on our friends. I salute you all with respect and conversation. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0071par0784	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz. The second word for the proposed owners belongs to Muğla MP Ömer Süha Aldan. Here you go, Mr. Aldan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0072par0789	Thank you. Mr. President, we wouldn't be here if it had happened on the night of July 15th. Parliament would be completely annulled. Maybe someone else would come and sit here instead of us. The Republic of Turkey has survived an important problem. That's a pretty happy development. We have also had many people who have put their lives on the line, who have lost their lives, and I pray for God's mercy on them. A lot of people are gonna get hurt, maybe crippled. They're really one of the most important actors we've ever had to sit here today. We owe them a great debt of gratitude, but I can't help but say, When we evaluate these people's sacrifice, we can't just say we have the upper hand by saying they didn't take a stand for the terrorist organization, they took a stand for the parliamentary system of this country. I wonder how well we've done things. How much responsibility do we have for this coming to this? Do we ever question that? It did, but it was prevented. There's no point in saying, "There's no point in trying to build a victory over this. " The question is, shouldn't be, not why. No, it shouldn't be. I'd like to point out one more thing. Over and over from this platform, democracy is now fully established in this country, and the period of coups is over, and there will be no more coups in this country. We have also understood how politically unpredictable political men are, how far away they are from the reality of Turkey. It's painfully understood. People gave their lives for it, and that's a very important problem. Of course, there are certain problems as we get to this point. One, there's obviously a weakness in intelligence. Something's going on, something's going on, pages and pages of documents are being drawn up about who's assigned to what mission when there's a coup, but the intelligence department doesn't know about it, or there is, and then there's two military commanders walking around the wedding, what are they doing? Another aspect of the job is that a gang in such a Turkish Armed Forces is ignored. It's always been protected by appointments, over the years. He sees them both as political authority and as do the dominant forces within the Armed Forces. They're always ignored. Another important problem is creating an environment for domestic and external enemies to play with. These are the reasons in sight. But Turkey is a country of coups. When you look at the basics of this, you see that there's a problem with democratization. One, he's always our boys. He's got an understanding, he's always been one of us. He's got an understanding. If there are 10 people in an institution who feel the same way, there's an organization, but if 10 people in that institution are made up of people who are made up of different ideas, then there's a consensus, where there's no impact environment, and, unfortunately, Turkey created such a structure. Is such a research commission necessary? There is. But one of our basic problems is that I think the members of this commission should be equal. All four political parties must attend this commission with equal lawmakers. I'm telling you this for two reasons: one of them cannot be set up in Congress for an investigation of a case involving judicial activity. In the long run, the possibility of conflict between the judicial process and the commission here is on the agenda. A second situation was that, again, a Commission for Research on Impacts was established in the 24th term; all coups were left on one side; the ruling majority and only the 28 February process were evaluated. Operation 28 February has been launched with all the doughnuts gathered here. This is not the right approach, and if we don't want to have both legal and actual problems, I think it's useful to create this commission in a structure like the Constitutional Compromise Commission, other than the regular commissions, and we can get back to the situation in the past term. Also, one of the things that stands out in this commission is that there are some really strange things going on. So, think of the people who are going to do a coup, who are holding the European Side, releasing the Anatolian Side. These coupters capture everyone in the military wing, they don't touch anyone in the political wing, including the opposition, including the power. For some reason, they take over the TRT, but all private televisions scream out loud. Yes, there's something strange about it, yes, I have some doubts about it, but I'm afraid I won't be able to share it from here. I hope, in the commission, there are details of them, and in Turkey, there are facts. We have problems with empathy, we have problems with belief in the rule of law. Ms. İlnur has just mentioned the irregularity or decline in revenue distribution in the 1960s conflict, but one fact is that the coup attempt was made to suppress the labor movement in Turkey on September 12, 1980; it is a coup attempt aimed at preventing union organisation in Turkey's cheap labour force that capital desires. The coup, after all, mounts the oppressed, the poor, the destitute, the oppressed. You have to see it anyway. It's just that... yeah, we're dealing with a gang, and Turkey has survived a major disaster, and there really is a junta, but you have to remember that it's not just the organization, the terrorist organization, the gang. This structure is capable of forming gangs or gangs like that. Turkey's biggest problem is democratisation, empathy. Now, who are you going to replace some people with? Oh, I'll fill it with people of this thought. If you say so, my brothers will fill it. If you say so, the brothers will come and stand before you one day. One of the most important consequences of the French Revolution is that the revolution eats its children. The understanding that dominates power in Turkey came together in a coalition instinct, and they dominated power, gradually spreading to all areas of society and bureaucracy in the country. Work came, came, and after a while it became a battle of power. That's the concept of revolution eating children. It was a counter-revolutionary movement, and those kids ate each other and began to strangle each other. Congressmans, of course, I'm going to give you an interesting example of this structure: there was a deputy attorney general in Ankara, one of the important people in this building, but the person he was ordered was his own personal bodyguard, so he was taking orders from the security police. We're face-to-face with a painting like this. But at this point, we have concerns that it's turning into a witch hunt. Thousands of people are now in custody, and our party has created a commission that I'm involved in, which is responsible for following this job, and we're face to face with dozens of applications. There are people who claim to have nothing to do with this congregation. We began to observe an opportunism. Let's take advantage of the opportunity to put everyone in this bag, get rid of the troubled. In his understanding, even subcontractors have become fired. A few days ago, one of our municipalities had an employee posted something on social media. He's being reported immediately for what he shared, and he's being arrested. Our mayor takes the editor-in-chief with him, he goes to the judge, and they say, "Sir, is there a crime here, when they write?" The judge's answer is: "No. Why did you arrest me?" They say, "If I don't arrest me." This is the state of the judiciary in Turkey. I'm warning the government authorities about this. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Please, I say don't turn this into a witch hunt, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0073par0804	Thank you very much, Mr. Aldan. On behalf of the owners of the proposal in the row, it belongs to Muğla MP Mehmet Erdogan. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0074par0808	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to determine the reasons and consequences of the coup attempt on the night of July 15, 2016. I hereby salute your high council. Starting with my words, on the night of July 15th, I ask for the mercy of our officers, our soldiers, and our citizens, who were martyrs in the fight against the coup. Again, I wish for immediate healing to all of our wounded, especially as Turgut Aslan, head of the Anti-Terror Bureau of Police General Directorate, who was injured during these grave events. Again, I pray for the mercy and immediate healing of the three wounded soldiers and two of our soldiers who were killed in the rocket attacks today in Diyarbakir and Van. Even though it's not all perfect, the system that humanity can apply, the least of its woes, is democracy. We need to put aside the difficulties we've faced in the process of democracy so far, and see again today how important it is to learn from the events that have happened, to have democracy, to live by all institutions and rules of democracy. We need to be able to maintain the environment of reconciliation and dialogue that started on the basis of these events. In the coming days, of course, there will be accounting for what happened, but the only thing that will not be done is the conscious, responsible and decisive attitude of the great Turkish nation on the night of July 15th, to take care of democracy, of its state. If what happened on July 15th was a test, the Turkish nation was responsible for the trial, and the Turkish nation successfully won the test. I too am proud to be a member of the Turkish nation who has passed this difficult test and to be a deputy in the service of the Turkish nation. The attitude of the St. Turkish nation on the night of July 15th and after is also a serious responsibility to our Parliament, which is held by the grace of our great nation. The National Movement Party has always acted responsibly. The National Movement Party has never had a problem with the state, with its nation, with the republic, with democracy and with the common values of our nation. The most important threat to democracy is the focus of the search for intermediaries and black regimes. However, the tenacious, independent, and conflicting politics of political governments also allow those with intent to find social grounds and grounds for non-democratic search. The solution to these problems is to absorb democracy, listen well to the opposition, and consider it. You didn't listen to our president's warnings in the past then, at least listen now and bear in mind so we don't have to go through this again. At the coming point, the coup has not been successful, but our institutions, particularly the Turkish Armed Forces, are trying to be undermined, while soldiers and soldiers, soldiers and citizens are trying to face each other. We can't let our institutions be destroyed by a bunch of terrorists, we can't let them. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we need to get back to normal as soon as possible from the extraordinary times we've been through. The immediate recovery of the economy from these events must be ensured that social life and working life are quickly normalized. If the economy stops, it's going to be very difficult to get it back into action in this environment. The picture in the middle, it's very bad to look at from where it's at. In the nationals, of course, we have to evaluate what's going on by maintaining our common sense, and how did we get here? We need to ask the question correctly, because if we can't get the diagnosis right here, if we can't do the autopsy of this current coup, if we can't get the crime scene review right, we can't get the prescription we're going to apply in treatment tomorrow, so there's a chance that we're going to run again with events like this. In this regard, you need to use this opportunity very well and very correctly. Given the parallel state structure and the fact that the Fethullahist terrorist organization has infiltrated every part of the public, although not fully aware of its number recently -- over 50,000 public officials have been suspended, it is clear that there is no state institution that has not been infiltrated. In fact, this infiltration has reached that level -- the President's Chief of Staff, the Presidential Guard, the Chief of Staff, the High Court, the Police, National Education -- of course, it's possible to multiply it by counting -- and all the institutions of the state are surrounded by this parallel structure. Today, how did we get here? We will ask the question together and look for an exit. Many of these institutions are under serious tests to get into as public staff. The trials of the past years are full of doubts. The disclosure of these doubts will be an important guide at the point of finding out how the congregation has infiltrated the public. Given that most of the public staff, such as military schools, police schools and members of the judiciary, are personnel subject to a security investigation, it is clear that our intelligence structure should also be reconsidered. The most important thing in the process is law, justice. In that sense, the judiciary must be purged from these organisations, as well as efforts to boost the confidence of our citizens in the judiciary, to raise the reputation of the judiciary. Justice is the foundation of property, and without justice, the state's survival is not possible. Tens of thousands of personnel have been suspended since July 15th. In terms of suspensions, there are also allegations that the people who infiltrated the institutions were deflecting targets. I mean, even though he's not a fethullahist, those Fethullahians are deceiving the public by giving other people's names to cover themselves up. The suspension of so many personnel in such a short amount of time will complicate the administrative and judicial investigation into these matters. It is also necessary to be careful about this suspension, and there must be no error to offend innocent people. In light of the information that has reached me and our party, it is clear that there have been some mistakes. It is the duty of all those who believe in justice to defend the right of age, even if it is one with the Founder. The state must surely be cleansed of these traitors, but this procedure must be done in accordance with rights and rights, and the public conscience must not be harmed. While the state is trying to be rescued from a parallel, no space should be opened to new parallels, no new parallels should be included. And I'd like to warn the government and the authorities about that. We have already stated that we support the State of Emergency as the National Movement Party in order to combat the terrorist attack on July 15th faster. In this process, of course, the Fethullahist terrorist group, which was responsible for the coup attempt on July 15th, is the first target. However, the first and only organisation operating in our country is not the fethullahist terrorist organization or the parallel state structure. As this extraordinary state of affairs continues, the PKK, NYD, ISIS, DHKP-C and other terrorist organisations must be fully and accurately fought, especially the elements that have infiltrated public institutions. While fighting a terrorist organization, other terrorist organisations should not be ignored. This opportunity must be used correctly and properly. One of the other important issues is the investigation and detection of external links to the coup attempt on July 15th. There is no doubt that the problems of being talked back and forth by state officials must be carefully followed without final results. So the external connections, when dealing with other countries, must first be carefully studied, which of the terrorist organizations has a connection to which country, after which this has been established, should be dealt with seriously. Perpetual measures must also be taken regarding the draining of the funding resources of terrorist organisations. Look, I've said this before. While many companies have been appointed trustees to combat the parallel structure, no institution, organisation or company has ever been appointed trustees to finance other terrorist organisations. And while there's a chance, I wish that the authorities would treat all terrorist organizations the same way and not make a mistake that would upset your public conscience, and I salute your grand delegation, wishing that the commission would be a blessing.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0075par0825	Thank you. The last word on behalf of the proposed owners is from İstanbul MP Celal Doğan. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0076par0829	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have come to me at a congressional meeting about the establishment of a commission from the worst days of Turkish political history, and I think I'm the last speaker. Therefore, I'll be careful to speak with respect to the painting and the nature of the situation that you've drawn as far as possible. However, Mr. Secretary has just counted, as have other speakers, for 50 years of a human life, these names are always the names of the coups. The 1960 conflict, March 12, 1971, September 12, 28th, April 28th, followed by Yellowgirl, Moonshine, Yalamoz, Glove -- Balyoz, Ergenekon, espionage and the latest attempt by the Fethullahist organization, or rather, the current attempt. Given the history of 50 years of coups, we need to examine whether we are in a democratic republic or in a tribal state. In short, our republic has not tested democracy well. What needs to be done for him, what everyone has put on their tongue these days: how should there be no blows, how should the source of the blows be dried up? Therefore, to date, in no way have Parliament and the High Assemblys struck a scalpel, especially after 1960. The epiphany of July 15th is clearly the result of the failure to hit this scalpel. We're dealing with a coup attempt that's very different from the others. When you look at other blows, there's an economic reason, there's a political reason, there's a mass, there's a period. From what I've seen, there should be some serious research into the greatest code, the purpose, and the duration of this coup that perhaps needs to be solved. Perhaps the biggest code the commission needs to solve is to be clear what the purpose of this coup is and what time it's coming here for, or whether the intention of invading the state is permanent, so that we may get a chance to diagnose this coup. So, from what I've seen, there's a convention at parties, it's a joy. Each of the other blows, in fact, if you had the time, if only you had an agenda, and each week a coup was discussed, we'd have a lot of documents that would really shed light on recent history, and all of those who did these coups came out with high horizons, lofty ambitions, noble ideals, all of them, all of them, for the sake of saving democracy and the country. Like Tarzan's films, Tarzan did nothing but try to save his daughter. The result of their deeds is that they have created their own laws. Can you tell me about a democratic law created by the 60 revolutions, September 12th, March 12th? And by their own law, covering up crimes and crimes, they created the law of self-responsibility. For example, when you look at the state-run senatorial establishment of the 60 revolutions, the president of the football team is like a reserve box, and the advert is a senator. However, when you look at September 12, 1980, it is consecrated to the Constitution that there should be no lawsuit against the commanders of martial law. I think it's a joy that this attempt remains fluid, at least they didn't create their own laws, but their destruction is much higher than all of them, because it's not just an issue within the army, it's not an isolated event. The political climate that was created... I don't intend to hit anyone in the face with words about individuals, and I don't have one. The political climate... the chance of clearing the capillaries of Turkey, which this movement has attracted is very difficult, very difficult, perhaps a metastasized disease, like cancer patient, has come to a point, the germs have spread to the brain all over it, obviously, all around it, the disease in the heart has spread to the brain. It's education, health, NGOs, capital, banks, jiheti is military, but it's real military attention. When you look at the jump board in the military, the distance they took after 2006 is very serious. If I'm not mistaken, the information given -- which is true -- is well, I say, at least if they were holding their hands by mistake -- if this had continued for another four years, there wouldn't have been a single orgeneral on the command committee, not a single parallelist, all the commanders of the force would have been parallelists. Therefore, the military's transfer and management would automatically be in the hands of the parallel as a hierarchical order. So, who's in charge of the command committee? There's the Chief of Staff. It's interesting that the Chief of Staff, the Undersecretary of MIT, sends his deputy at four o'clock, not enough, he's leaving, warning him. How did you manage to capture yourself when you received the news of the revolution as Chief of Staff? How could you make a prisoner of yourself? No one can do it, not in our political history. Two: One is going to the wedding, another commander of the force is going to the wedding, despite news of the revolution, despite his attempt. Now, when you look at history, we see interesting things. For example, one of our military commanders, the General Commander of the Gendarme, says to his eight-year-old aide that I can't pronounce right now, "The Greek soldier wouldn't do that to me. It's been 80 years since we fought Greek soldiers. He's obviously separated from Turkey, he doesn't even know how the interrogations are in Turkey, so he doesn't know the Palestinian hanger, he doesn't know how to torture China, he doesn't know how to give electricity; he's not related to the torn Turkey. But he hasn't known the man he's been carrying around with him for eight years. Well, this commander, there are other commanders... and he ties the Chief of Staff with his own aide's belt. Now I will remind you of one thing: I will remind you of Reshat Çilltepe. Who is Reşat Çigiltepe? He is a commander in the Anafartas, a soldier who committed suicide an hour later, or a colonel, because Mustafa Kemal had carried out his order. He was the pasha, he could choose a man to commit suicide; they could choose friends to tie him up. [[Applause from HDP and CHP rows]] Therefore, I have a request from our Prime Minister, which is, please do not go with this command committee to the Military Shura, where you will be leaving very soon, please don't go with this section. There's no way the command committee or promotions you're going to build are better than this. I don't give a damn about any of them. I have countless general friends; they're all rims, they're really gentlemen, but this notion of shipping and governance has no right to design the Turkish army. Maybe we'll talk about commissions in the future, talk about how we can fix them, how we can fix them. What we need to talk about is the issues that need to be dried up in its original source, one. But five more minutes... you talk last minute, you stay one minute, you have to finish. I'll tell you something else: you're talking about community unity, it's true; you're talking about social peace, it's beautiful. I congratulate you on the rally of the People's Party, where I have my dear, undaunted friends, but I only have one segregation: I wish there was only one sentence in that manifesto that could be collective peace. I want to say something else: There's no use in continuing to demonize the Democratic Party of Peoples, and there's no use in Turkey. The president of all political parties has called on the President. The People's Democratic Party, I know very well, stood before the steep coup from 10:30 p.m. and signed the declaration in Parliament. Now, if the walls had language, if the mountains had language, if the rallies had language... two presidents went to Mr. President. There's not a word left for him by the two general presidents, and there's nothing left for him to say to them. I don't discuss what they call their faces. At least from now on -- there's a saying in Anadolu, and they say, "Please leave the place of a hello." Continue to make politics in order to greet each other, because I also know that that's part of the impact of the language we use in politics, where we get to." In short, my dear friends, what I'm trying to say is that the view is very bad; the soldier puts a bullet in the soldier. You can call him a bandit now, yesterday he was a soldier, yesterday he was a commander, but today he is a bandit. The courthouse is torn apart, there are literally tens of thousands of liquidations in the bureaucracy. We don't know where we can trust the judge. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Who doesn't know where to put himself? At this point, we're going to have a restoration period, so you're going to build the republic from scratch, like you're going to rebuild it.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0077par0843	Complete it, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0076par0844	Let me finish, Mr. President. It has to be in accordance with the 1921 philosophy of the rebuilt republic, which is a modern constitution that all sections of Turkey, all peoples and layers share together. One sentence is that the Veteran Assembly is a republic and a state to us. This Veteran Assembly has fought very well, and I respect it, and I take my hat off in front of it, but if a real civil democracy doesn't make us a constitution, it's just a memory. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0078par0849	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. So the talks on parliamentary research motions are complete. I will now submit to your votes on whether or not Congress will open its investigation. Those who have agreed to open a parliamentary investigation... those who have refused... are unanimous. God bless you, there will be an important research commission for democracy for the national will.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0079par0854	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0078par0855	Wait a second, I'll finish the vote, I promise. I submit to your votes that the commission to conduct the parliamentary investigation will be formed from 15 members: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes that the term of the commission is three months to begin with the date of the election of president, vice president, spokesman and clerk: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. I submit to your votes that the commission can work outside Ankara if necessary: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0080par0862	Thank you, Mr. President. The Clave signed a very important study today. We're sure that the establishment of this commission today will be considered historically by future generations, as well as by the Parliament after the coup attempt on July 15th. However, here I find an infinite benefit to rephrase a particular reminder. This commission will function historically in what I say in the framework and will contribute greatly to the democratic future of our country with a special working area. So we're thinking that he's going to have to get past the operation or the function of a classic commission. So how research commissions formed according to the Civil Charter have been expressed in the previous Parliamentary Conventions and the Civil Code rules. However, because of the historical mission I'm talking about, I think this commission should be based on a study where there is equal membership from each political party, where it can identify its own methodology and methodology and working calendar as authentic.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0081par0866	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0080par0867	I'm putting you through. I'm done, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0081par0868	Let's finish, please.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0080par0869	A particularly important task and responsibility falls to the ruling party. I think it would be extremely important for us not to have to suffer a coup again, a study of equal representation from each political party. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-07-26sit01spe0081par0871	Thank you. Yes, lawmakers, there is indeed a very important research commission for our democracy, for our national will. I'm already very, very grateful to all the working political parties, all the officials, the lawmakers. I'm saying good luck, good luck. Thus, according to the decision made, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume our talks with the 1st ranked International Labor Law Bill and the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which are ranked 2nd, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey in 130 rows and the Approvement of the Consultation Agreement between the Montenegrin Government. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will no longer be available, it is now 14 p.m. on Wednesday (July 27, 2016) to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00, and I wish you a good evening.
