tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 5th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Sivas MP Ali Akyıldıldıl, who asked about 10 Muharrem Kerbela days of mourning. Mr. White Star, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, the valued workers of our press and Congress, and my esteemed citizens watching us on screens, I salute you all with my most sincere love, respect, and conversation, with love. [[Applause from CHP rows]] It is the name of the day when a righteous, primitive, honest, compassionate, brave, and courageous hero was brutally, thirsty with all his relatives until they reached the six-month-old child who had been milked by the cruel dictator of time. It is the name of the day when this hero chooses to die honorably, at the expense of his life, not to give in to the oppressor, at the expense of his life. It is the name of the day when the oppressor triumphs over the oppressor, the slain, and the sword of the blood. It is the name of a freedom epic which turns the oppressors into deadly silence and stagnation, a cruel avalanche, a destructive volcano. Kerbela, this is the name of the desert in which the epic is written. Imam Hussein is the name of a righteous, primitive, brave, selfless and brave hero who wrote this epic with noble blood. She is the only daughter of the prophet of mercy, the beloved grandson of Fatima the prophet of chastity and Islam. He is the heir of the prophet of Islam, the son of the prophet Imam Ali. He is a member of the household of Allah, which He has declared to be pure in the Qur'an. He is the near of the Prophet, the nearest of the Prophet, and the youngest of the Prophet, who has been ordained for all of us to preach. He is the lord of the youth of heaven with his brother, Hazreti Hassan, and with him is the ornament of heaven. He is an earring of the Throne, along with the Lord Hassan. For him the prophet is of me, and for him I am of Hussein. And whosoever loveth Hussain also loveth him. And Allah hath commanded him. My daughter is the sons of Fatima. God, I love them, and you love them, and you love those who love them. For him and his brother Hasan, the prophet, these sons of mine are my most beautiful scented flowers in the world. Yes, it is a pure flower, an ornament of heaven, an earring of the Throne, and a young child of the prophet. He is the son of the house where the Koran came down, where the circumcision took place. He represents goodness, righteousness, honesty, purity, justice, freedom, generosity, and courage. Well, what about Yezid? Yezid is the opposite of Imam Hussein. He represents evil, lies, deceit, pollution, corruption, persecution, despotism, greed, and malice. He was lawless, lawless, drunk and drunk. Not only did Yazid wrong the prophet's family, but he covered the mosque and the shrine of the prophet with the blood of his fellowman, and made all things lawful for the people of the city, including their private parts. Not only that, but God's House of Beth-i-Qaeda struck with a catapult and set it on fire. And who's the deputy? He also fought against the legitimate Caliph Imam Ali, who made the blasphemy part of the worship, and made the prophet's flower Hassan the martyr. And who is Abu Sufian, the father of the deputy? He also fought the Holy Prophet for twenty-one years. And the mother? And Hind, his mother, had appointed a slave, whose beloved uncle, Hamzai, to kill him; and after the testimony of Hamzah the priest, he cut his breast out, and tried to eat his lungs. Because of all this humiliation, this family has been cursed by God and by the Messenger. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One more minute of my conversation... and your day means...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0003par0020	Please complete. I'm not giving you another minute, but let's extend the meaning of today properly.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0002par0021	Wherever mankind is persecuted in the world, it is a Kerbala. Wherever there is a quarrel of good and evil, it is in Kerbala. Kerbela is a symbol, that the dignity of humanity prevails by giving life, that persecution is paid for and cursed. There, not Imam Hussein, but mankind's honor was massacred. The martyrship of Imam Hussein is also a triumph of human honor, but that victory was granted to mankind by blood and death, but Imam Hussein didn't die there, he rose up and embraced all the worlds, his name was a symbol to humanity, an umbrella to humanity in the union of beauty. I salute you all, that the meetings, and the fasting, and the mourning, may be accepted.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0003par0024	Thank you, Mr. White Star. The second word, now off the agenda, belongs to Aydın MP Deniz Depboylı, who wants to talk about the Day of the Daughters of the World. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0004par0029	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, before I begin my speech, I salute you and the great Turkish nation. Five years ago, a draft law by Turkey, Canada and Peru decided that the United Nations General Assembly would celebrate October 11th as the Day of World Daughters. It's a nice and meaningful step to bid on the acceptance of a day of awareness to support and strengthen girls. We have also signed other agreements to protect the children. For example, the United Nations Convention on Child Rights was approved by us on December 9, 1994. We were the first countries to sign the Council of Europe's Istanbul Convention in order to avoid problems related to gender discrimination that our girls could live in when they were young and later. So far, so good, but from now on, I want to see what we've been through, what we've been through, what we've been through, and what I want to look at. Dear Regents, we have a beautiful proverb, and they say: "One's business is not to be addressed." It is said that in the last decade, we have made significant distances to schooling their daughters. That's great, but when we ask about our children's schooling rate, we're always given the number of primary school students, but the problem is that the access to education alone isn't enough, the problem is getting the girls to go to school. The Education Reform Initiative was seen writing an Education Watch Report in 2014-2015, and when we looked at it, the percentage of early students who dropped out of school was 38 per cent in Turkey. 13 percent of the girls are still married at the age of children, while most of them are not even listed. The Constitutional Court recently lifted the terms of the formal marriage at the Imam wedding, which in a way legitimized the early marriage of the girls. Again, the Constitutional Court has ruled that any sexual acts committed against every child who has not completed 15 years of age (1) will be considered sexual abuse by seven votes in accordance with another decision made by the Turkish Penal Code. Turkey has an obligation to comply with international contracts, which it sided with. By signing these international contracts, Turkey has also pledged to regulate and change internal law rules accordingly. While we are expected to protect every child under the age of 18 from any abuse, especially sexual abuse, and the age limit listed as 15 is expected to be raised to 18, the total removal of the age limit is not a rational decision, it is also contrary to international norms. Unfortunately, the ruling AKP has failed to come up with quick and lasting solutions to these problems. Returning to the problem of education, again, studies have found that 39.9% of girls in Turkey left school before entering high school in 2013. What's that supposed to mean? Out of every 100 girls who go to school, 40 are dropping out of school, meaning they can't go to school. Turkey was the only 118th member of the Social Gender Development Index in the 128 countries. Unfortunately, in the Social Gender Cliff Index, he was ranked 125th among 142 countries. Again, in addition to the education problems of our girls, they also have problems because they work for free household chores and support their family, which points to around 7.5 million girls in Turkey. Problems with access to basic services and poverty increase the possibility that the child will become a child worker. So, no matter what we say, the work is done. The policies and services that are produced for our girls are as inadequate as anything that's done for all children, regardless of gender. There's so much that needs to be done. Therefore, the establishment of the permanent commission for children's rights in Turkey's Grand National Assembly stands in our way as one of the most important and urgent decisions to be made. My respects to all of you. I salute your High Council.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0005par0039	Thank you. Congressmans, Malik Pervaiz, who is currently the chairman of the Friendship Group, and also Pakistani MP Moshin Ranja, have visited our General Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause]] Now, the third non-responsive statement belongs to Iğdır MP Nurettin Aras. Here you go, Mr. Aras. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0006par0053	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to honor the 1st anniversary of Hazreti Hussein's testimony. In this occasion, I greet the General Assembly with a sincere heart. Of course, death is not a flaw and a flaw. That's why Abraham didn't ask for help on his way to his death. His Holiness Hussein says that the greatest death is to be killed in the way of God. It is Our adornment and our adornment. We are not afraid to dress up, nor are we afraid to be adorned. On the night of the 15th of July, our people, our nation, went out into the street to show the world that martyrdom is adornment, adornment. In this regard, I ask that the martyrs of the 15th of July be gathered together with the witness of the martyrs, Huseyin. Of course, the esteemed MPs, Hazreti Ali, were shot with a poison sword while prostrating by the external Ibn Mulcem in the 19th part of Ramaza, while in the caliph. In those days it is considered the center of Islam, and also the seat of guides and bannermen. The chiefs of all the tribes who lived there, and the elders, and the people of the region, and all the people of Imam Hassan, and all the people of Iraq, and Hijaz, and Yemen. But there was a tyrant on the other side of the border. Seven months and 24 days of harassment against the Imam Hassan caliphate. This dominant tyrant, famous for his evil deeds, sends empty but signed, sealed papers to Imam Hassan, and bids on the terms of your request, and I accept them, but leave the halophet to me. Of course, peace is a seed that feeds from the depths of Islam and its people. Imam Hassan accepted this peace in order for the test of the superstitious front, which had received a very important power, to allow the public to see what he had done, the Islamic world to see; and again, not to shed the blood of Islam. This is a phase that is one of the most important stages in the history of Islam. However, on the day of the signing of peace, I did not know this peace -- he took possession of it, insulted Ali the Lord -- and these conditions of peace lie beneath my feet." he said. And Imam Hassan turned to the Muslims, and said, "O believers, I did not want to humiliate you, nor did I sacrifice your blood for the sake of the kingdom." he said. His Holiness Hussein stood up only for the brotherhood of Islam, or the Lord Hussein had no intention of making mischief. Pretty soon, the deputy and his team were already seen what they were doing. Not only did they slaughter Imam Hussein on the day of Ashurah, but they trampled his body under the horseshoes of his horses. Not only that, but they cut off the heads of their men, and of Imam Hussein, and put them on spears, and passed them through the cities. They led the family of Revelation, unfortunately, like Greek prisoners, the daughters of the prophetullah, from city to city. What was that? It was the same thing as eating the liver of Hamza the Lord of Uhud on the day of Uhud. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The deputy had an irreconcilable enmity with Islam, which led to the killings.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0007par0060	Mr. Aras, I'm going to give you a minute to add to today's meaning and significance. Please complete.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0006par0061	Thank you. The Prophet said: "Hasan and Hussein are masters of the youth of heaven." Why did he not say "Lords of the young people of the world?" He said, "Lords of the youth of heaven." Because the Holy Prophet had seen the future behind the curtain of time, knowing that the young of the time might not stand behind these two, that they might betray them. That's why they're the masters of the youth of heaven. But do these young ones not have the rights of Hazreti Hassan, and Hussein, because they have been ungrateful and unjust? No. Their rights, their leadership, their mastership, are eternal. Their leadership qualities are essential qualities, and their love, their conversation, is essential to all of us, as the Lord of the Qur'an commands. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May Allah gather our 15th of July martyrs with His Holiness Hussein. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0008par0067	Thank you, Mr. Aras. Congressmans, today is 10 Muharrem Ashure Day; the day of the Kerbala case, a source of sadness for the entire Islamic world. The day our Holy Prophet, Hüseyin and his family, who gave their lives to protect the trust of the Prophet and to preserve the love of the faithful, walked to witness. On this occasion, Kerbela, we bless all our martyrs and all our martyrs from that day forward, including our martyrs on July 15th, who, just the other day, were many martyrs in the Shemdinite. I wish my Lord would grant us their intercession. This suffering, this Kerbala thing, is undoubtedly the common pain of all Muslims. What the Islamic world needs most of all is an example for us. There must be a lot of lessons to learn from it. Therefore, our understanding of 10 Muharrems is of great importance; it guides us to be partners in our unity, unity, and brotherhood, in suffering, sorrow, and sorrow. Dear lawmakers, I wish all of our Islamic world and citizens to be united by the love of the good people, that my Lord should never bring Kerbelas to the Islamic world again, that he should not compare them to the Jews, that he should keep them from evil, that 10 Muharremin and Ashure Day would be a blessing. Again, in the past two days, the death of the AK PARTI Dicle district chief and the vice president of Özalp County was deeply upsetting. I hereby curse terror once again. My condolences to your relatives. In this context, I salute all of you, against all the tyrants, against all the Jews, against all the terror organizations. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm going to make a pledge to the MPs who are now entering the system. I believe the list has been distributed. I'll make a one-minute commitment to the first 15 MPs according to the Civil Code 60. Yes, Mr. Özkan, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0009par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. Our government's decisive struggle has cornered the imperialist subcontractor terrorist organization. Interrupting separatist terrorists are either blowing themselves up or attacking AK PARTY agencies these days. Our vice president of Van Özalp County, Aydın Mütü, was brutally martyred in front of his children the day before yesterday. Again, last night, our Tigris County President, Deryan Aktert, was brutally martyred in his own workplace. In response, the political extension of PKK terrorism, the fascists, are promoting the killers of our mayor. These fascists who claim to represent our Kurdish citizens attend the funerals of those who orphaned and orphaned our Kurdish brothers. As the separatist PKK terrorist organisation is deciphered, it once again reveals that the PKK and the fascist extension have no morals and no sanctuaries, only Kurds have a PKK problem. On this occasion, I ask God's mercy to all our martyrs who have died for the sake of national will and civilization, and salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0010par0085	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0011par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. PKK terrorists AK PARTI Beytüşşebap Youth Corps President Naci Adıyaman and Hakakari MP Ahmet Budak have killed our candidate. The separatist terrorist organization, which has been severely hit by the operations of our security forces, has now launched attacks on our party's white staff. The terrorist group, which targeted EC PARTY Vice President Mehdi Eker (AK PARTI) the previous month, slaughtered Özalp District Vice President Aydın Müştük in his home in front of his children. Last night, our AK PARTI Dicle district president Deryan Actert was killed again after an armed attack by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) terrorists. The increase in the attacks on our party by the PKK, which are cornered by our decisive operations, will not frighten our staff, will not deter us from our righteous cause. Our resolve to fight terrorism will continue without diminishing. With these feelings, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0012par0091	Mr. Yilmaztekin...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0013par0093	Mr. President, I ask Allah's mercy to our Vice President Aydın Mügü and Dicle District Vice President Deryan Actert, who, in the last two days, has been slaughtered by the traitorous terrorist organization Van Özalp County. The PKK has made it clear once again that there is no Kurdish movement by slaughtering these Kurdish politicians. I want to inform you that these attacks will not take us back a step from our struggle for democracy and our determination. Turkey today is under systematic attack by both the DEAS and the PKK. Turkey is the one who forced these two terrorist groups, which are ideologically contrary to each other, to act together at the point of Turkey's hostility, to survive their shackles and fight for salvation. I wish to inform you that we have never been afraid, that we have never hesitated, that we support this honest struggle to the end, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0012par0095	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0014par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, Mersin had one of the darkest days in his history yesterday, almost stabbed in the back. The plan, unfortunately, was marked by the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant (Akkuyu), with the votes of members of the Metropolitan Assembly of the AKP (AKP) and CHP. I am against the nuclear power plant. Those who asked the citizen for votes and those who were elected did not knowingly and willingly keep their promise to those who chose them. To those who have broken their promise, I ask: "Why did you break your promise? Are you afraid of something? What did you throw Mersin into the fire for? The people of Mersin will not forget those who have broken their promise. The people of Mersin will not forget the evil that has been done to them, but they will answer for it.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0012par0099	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0015par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister of Justice... our Minister of Justice said the other day: "Let us know who has suffering and torture. We ask you: We have applied twice to the Justice Department concerning the press, we wanted to discuss it, but our demands have not been answered positively or negatively, we are not asked to be interviewed. But the parents' complaints have come to us: 1) (It is said that daily newspapers are not given inside.) I don't know how accurate it is. 2) The clothes are not given. They are called. In the library, we are told that books are not given. The complaints are coming to us, and the issue is... I went to Aslı Erdogan before, and he said he wasn't given water for 24 hours, and we shared it with the press. I'm asking you: I think it's wise to allow the Ministry not to be left under the guises of this kind. At the very least, that way, you can really refute the allegations of abuse and torture. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0016par0109	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0017par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. It's World Girls' Day. So, what's the status of girls and women in our country? Unfortunately, the data is not promising. We are in a country where girls have a higher rate of starting school, where they still have a lower level of schooling, where 26 percent of women are married before they are 18 years old, 10 percent have children before the age of 18, employment is around 37 per cent, 80 per cent are women, 80 per cent of illiterates are women, and 18 per cent are reduced to 118th in the Gender Dayian Development Index. For this situation to change, it must be a national goal for our country to improve the education, employment and social integration of girls who are not the priority and agenda of AKP authorities but are the basis of development and development. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0018par0114	Dear Maker...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0019par0116	Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers, the political power has been trying today to take revenge on the educational workers who have resisted the religiousisation and commercialisation of education, advocated secular, scientific education, fought the struggle for labour, peace and democracy. The suspension of 11,285 teachers as a result of a cognitive operation created by the media and advocacy of the trade union and a clear defamation of accusations and aims is an open execution; ignoring universal law, fundamental rights and freedoms. Our teachers who haven't been able to go to school for 32 days have had the anxiety of not knowing when the investigations mentioned about them will end, whether they can return to their duties or not. This unknownness has become a torture. I call upon the power to end the psychological torture he has inflicted on our teachers as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0018par0118	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0020par0120	Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, our political colleague, AK PARTI Dicle District Chairman Deryan Aktert and Van Özalp District Vice President Aydın Mütü have been killed in the last attack by the terrorist organization. May the Lord accept the testimony of our presidents. Terrorist organizations acting under the power of global evil forces have launched a vicious assassination attempt against our local politicians. As someone who's served in every level of the AK PARTY, I'm saying that every one of the AK PARTY agencies has been on their way with their shrouds. The men of the court who set out with their shrouds are not afraid of death. Those who kill their fathers in front of their children, leaving our people homeless, opening ditchs, turning the nation's tank into a nation, the terrorist organizations -- Özakça, PKK, DAEŞ, whatever its name -- will never be able to intimidate us and divide our country. I ask God's mercy on our martyrs and patience for their families and our organization.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0021par0123	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0022par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. My question, Mr. Minister of Justice, is how do you assess the fact that the owner of the building in Giresun, where your party is, is one of the financiers of Asia? Which was in the national press. Until last week, your Vice President Nurettin Canikli and the President's giant posters had been hung and sent such a message? Will you consider this rental as evidence that the relationship with the AKP continued on July 15th, while thousands of people have been subjected to forensic investigations while the phone calls for ByLock, union membership, Bank has been considered evidence of depositing money to Asia? The building in question was sold by the Special Administration three years ago. It's also being investigated whether your party rents this building owner. For your information. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0023par0132	Thank you. Mr. Filter...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0024par0135	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, who have no religion, faith, conscience, morality, lack of honor, lack of honor -- the pit is a level -- they will not be able to break the nation-state union no matter what the terrorists do. Those who hide behind their words of freedom, peace, praise terrorists and terrors, who can't call them terrorists, those who put their backs to the terrorist will surely answer both in this world and in the afterlife. Our martyrs, AK PARTI Van Özalp County Vice President, AK PARTI Dicle District Chairman and all of our martyrs, have mercy and patience with their relatives. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0025par0138	Mr. Dalkulic...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0026par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. And I remember the 10 Muharrem Ashure days of the Islamic world. I ask my Lord to have mercy on the martyrs of Kerbela, who are first and foremost Lord Hussein. In the last two days, we've witnessed the attacks of a rogue terrorist organization against the AK PARTY. Van Özalp District Vice President Aydın Müç Beye, Dicle District Chairman Deryan Aktert Beye, Hakkaride who died on the 3rd day of the festival, I ask for the mercy of our candidate Ahmet Budak Bey and to the low terrorist organizations: You will never, ever be able to turn back those who served on the AK PARTI. If that's your target, check it once more, the AK PARTY crews are on their way with their shrouds. I, especially the HDP Group, expect the terrorist organization to condemn these actions and to publicly curse the actions of this terrorist organization, on behalf of our nation. These scoundrels must come to an end, and they will be paid in full, in the name of the nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0027par0145	Mr. Bozkurt...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0028par0147	We have a beautiful proverb called "restraint." The National Ministry of Education says it is time for all schools to become imam-members, who have been made vice principal of Kabatat Men's High School to be slaughtered as part of the schools. Another, a journalist, has to be a Muslim lawmaker, its duty is to teach the law. It's clear these types aren't alone. As you know, there should be no secularism in the new constitution. By means of Recep Tayyip Erdogan Bey, I am the long-known Imam of Istanbul. I am the leviator. I am the tram of democracy. We will raise religious and vindictive generations. There is also what is being done in the memorial. It seems to me that by turning the coup into an opportunity, they've reached their reach, this zevat who's prepared to get off the tram, the spirit of the new one, the secular republic, and the modern scientific education...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0027par0150	Mr. Starsniper...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0029par0152	Mr. President, both the olive maker and the grape maker who produces the honey of our Manisa, which is called the city of oil, which flows from its mountains and from its plains, is crying blood. I'd like to share with you a photo sent by a grape farmer who had to root out a bond he'd grown with a thousand years of hard work. The price of grapes, which was $5.30 last year, has been reduced to $3.20 this year. However, the kilogram cost of the raisin maker is $3. Now I'd like to ask the Minister of Agriculture: Is a grape farmer who can't make money of his grapes going to eat grapes for a winter? I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0030par0156	Mr. Boyraz... no. Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0031par0159	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday was the anniversary of the October 10th Gar massacre, the bloodiest act in the history of the Republic of Turkey. Once again, I curse the perpetrators of this massacre. Yesterday, there were obstacles, bans, even gas and batons all over our country who wanted to remember their dead friends, their children, their relatives. It is unacceptable for such reckless intervention in the memorials when there are weaknesses in the prevention of massacres, in the execution of intelligence activities. I offer my condolences to those who have lost their loved ones in this massacre, that we will follow the process so that justice can be brought to justice at once. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0032par0164	Thank you. Congressmans, now, we have friends from our group presidents who have entered the system. Mr. Akçay, come in. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0033par0169	Thank you, Mr. President. In the last two days, 10 soldiers have been killed in Şemdinli district of Hakkari, Diyarbakır Silvan, 1 in Şırnak Beytüşşebap, 1 in Beytüşşebap, 5 in Şemdinli have lost their lives. 16 heroes were injured in these attacks. Again, yesterday, Sergeant Sulejman Gür of Manisa Salihli, who was severely injured in his conflict with terrorists in Şırnak province last week and who was treating him in the GATA, also reached the level of bearing witness. My condolences and patience to our martyrs, God's mercy, and to their grieving relatives, and to the great Turkish nation, and to our wounded, and to our immediate healing. Again, in terrorist attacks, Justice and Development Party Dicle District Chairman Deryan Aktert, Van Özalp District Vice President Aydın Mütü, Beytüşşebap Youth Corps President Naci Adıyaman has also lost his life. I offer them mercy, my condolences to their relatives, to their family, and to our nation. Turkey is fighting violent terrorist attacks. No matter who it comes from, Turkey is trying to darken its future, using every means of terrorism that it has found. Anti-terrorism is a national case. Our future and our future depend on us being one and one in this struggle. An active fight against terrorism in the field is a prerequisite. In addition, the eight-point anti-terrorism concept, which Mr. State Bahçeli has repeatedly and persistently declared on August 29, 2016, must be carried out immediately. In this framework, the vision of the fight against terrorism should be developed, the concept of the fight against terrorism should be developed, the anti-terrorism strategy should be established, and the anti-terrorism policy should be established, the process of mass recovery should be put into action, the plan of diplomatic combat action should be prepared, and with the anti-terrorism anti-terrorism training and execution programme to promote terrorism. On October 10, 2015, we saw one of the bloody and treacherous faces of terror in Ankara Gar Square. This attack on Turkey, which killed 102 of our citizens, was an attack on the unity and unity of the Turkish nation. Whether it's the PKK or ISIS, those who smeared our country with treacherous blood target the Turkish nation's unity, the existence of the Republic of Turkey. It is vital that we continue to fight terrorism in unity and unity in the process. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This attack at Ankara Station must be illuminated and brought to justice by identifying its supporters. I hereby tender my condolences to our citizens who died at the train station, to their grieving relatives and to the great Turkish nation. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0034par0179	Thank you. Mr. Sky, come in. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0035par0183	Thank you, Mr. President. Ashure is the name of the tenth day of the battle of the 61st year of Kerbala. Ashure is the name of the day when he chose to die honorably by not giving in to him at the cost of his life, rather than to live in dishonor with the 72 years of Hazreti Hussein. I wish the Ashure and the fighting bear to the entire Islamic world. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today is October 11, 2016. It was signed ninety-four years ago. In the next phase, Turkey focused on the most important agreements to give itself the title of the Republic of Turkey, taking an honorable page among civilized world states. I'm celebrating all of our states elders who worked at the Mudanya auction. Mr. President, we're burying our soldiers who died in Hakkari Şemdinli, and we've given some of them away. Today's funerals show us once again what a severe trauma Turkey suffered by the attacks of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) against terror. That's enough, and while we honor all the martyrs who have lost their lives so far, again, we honor all our citizens who died in the attack by ISIS in Ankara Station. On the one hand, the PKK, ISIS, on the other hand, we want to emphasize our faith in Turkey's unity and unity more than ever today in order for Turkey to continue with these treacherous plans, all of which have been put in a circle. Again, the murder of AKP Diyarbakır Dicle District President Mr. Deryan Aktert., AKP Vice President of Van Özalp District Mr. Aydın Müşüp and Mr. Naci Adıyaman, President of the Youth Corps of Beytüşşebap, was also an assassination of Turkey's politics. The assassins should know that all politicians in Turkey will be more united in such events and will be one punch in the face of terror. Meanwhile, the other day, the nephew of our Parliament Speaker, Mr. Pervin Buldan, also died in another sad incident. Mr. Pervin Buldan, our Deputy Speaker, and in that accident, we also offer our condolences to our fellow citizens who lost their lives in that sad incident. And we want Turkey to stop crying and never shed tears again, but we can't swallow our faith in it when we see the practices of power. The immediate recovery of Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and he needs to move on. We, the Republican People's Party, state that we will do our best in this matter.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0036par0191	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0037par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, today is the 10th day of the month of battle. On October 11th, 1336 years ago, Hazeti Hussein and 71 people were killed in a battle against Yazeith's tyrannical armies. For 1336 years, they have been a symbol of resistance to persecution. Kerbela became one of the most important symbols of resistance to persecution in the world. We, who have died on this occasion, remember Imam Hussein and his 71 years and those who have been martyred from this place, with respect, gratitude, and mercy, by resisting all persecution from that day forward. For these ten days, especially our people, Alevi, all our citizens mourn, fast, worship in harmony with the spirit of the month of battle. I desire that the fasts and all the meetings which are being performed be accepted in the sight of the Right. Mr. President, a year ago, in the middle of Ankara, 101 of our lives were killed along with the most bloody massacre in the history of Turkey. They had just come to Ankara to defend peace, to express a social demand only to expand democracy and freedom, but unfortunately, with the bombs that exploded, we had to send off the funerals of our 101 lives all over Turkey.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0038par0199	Let's get it done in a minute, please.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0037par0200	I, 101, say we remember our lives from here with respect, grace, gratitude, and once again, we will take care of their legacy of peace. Last night, we learned with great regret that AKP Dicle District President Deryan Actert had been killed by an armed attack. First of all, we're condemning all of these political murders in the region in the last month. There is no reason to justify these political murders. Being the manager of any political party, there is no reason to be blamed, targeted, or murdered like that for any human being. So, as the People's Democratic Party, we would like to express once again the position of stopping these political murders as quickly as possible, expanding the area of democratic politics.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0038par0202	Thank you. Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0039par0205	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 10th day of the month of battle, the day of the tribe. On the day of the martyrdom of Hazreti Hussein, the grandson of the Prophet, by the army of Yazit, in Kerbala. He taught us the importance of sacrifice, of faith, of brotherhood, of unity, by putting his life on the line in Kerbala. We believe that we should all learn from this event of wisdom. And again, this week is the Athletic Culture Week, one of the major feet of our civilization tradition. Harmony is an important tradition that sustains social morality and puts the craft on a solid professional basis. We're celebrating the week of our entire tradesman who founded his work ethic on the Constitution. Dear President, dear lawmakers, we've been going through painful days as a country for a few days. On Sunday, we sacrificed 15 martyrs to terror, ten of whom were soldiers in Shemdinite. On the same day, our vice president of Ozalp County, Aydın Mütü, was brutally murdered by terrorists in front of his children. Yesterday, Diyarbakir Dicle District President Deryan Aktert was murdered and martyred by PKK terror organization at his workplace. We wish our martyrs God's mercy and immediate healing for our wounded. Rather than view this as a political murder against politicians, it would be best to consider it as a martyred politician by the terrorist organization's terrorist activity, because if the terrorist organization thinks that it will deter the political institution with these attempts against political mechanisms, it is deceived. In particular, we have been condemning these recent attacks against the AK PARTY politicians with violence and hatred. We point out to the terrorists and their followers: No matter what you do, I would like to express to you that this violent act against the EC PARTI staff, this brutal act, this terrorist act, this terrorist act, will not deter the AK PARTI staff and that the EC PARTI will carry out its fight with terrorist activities, with PKK terrorist organization extensions, with the DEAS terrorist organization, with its extensions. Once again, I pray for God's mercy on our martyrs, and for patience in our nation. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit01spe0040par0213	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The MPs, Mr. Mehmet Muezzinoglu, Minister of Labour and Social Security, have asked for 162, 164, 166, 193, 203, 269, 342, 368, 370, 371, 387, 428, 429, 429, 431, 432, 433, 433, 435, 435 and 435. The Minister's request will be fulfilled when it's his turn. Now, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis that I'm going to read and present to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The United Nations Convention on Fighting Desertization (UNCMS) was held by Turkey from 12 October to 23 October 2015. The chairmanship of the Parliamentary Forum, one of the regular forums of the UNCMS, will be chaired by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and will be run by the TBMM for two years. The establishment of the TBM Group of Anti-Demodification Labour Group (TBMM 6) will be actively employed to implement activities that are intended for the Parliamentary Forum in Turkey, as well as the chairmanship of the Parliamentary Forum in Turkey, has been favoured by the decision 18/8/2016, and by the decision 20/2016 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In order to form the study group, the names reported by the General Assembly, dated 28/3/1990 and under Article 1 (c) of the First Amendment (c) and Article 4 of the National Assembly of Turkey, are presented to the information of the General Assembly. Name and Last Name: Selection Environment: It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I will have the motions read separately. A summary of the motion will be read because the parliamentary research motion I will be reading in the second place is more than 500 words, but the full text of the motion will be included in the Tutorak Magazine. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Health Department of Health. As part of the Net Project, it has been subject to legal and ethical questioning that the person should be stored for the necessary use of private and medical data. Its public perception is a clear violation of Article 20 of the Constitution and Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, the Biomedicine Convention. It is necessary for the Constitution to open a parliamentary examination of Articles 98 of the Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Interior Charter to investigate the failure of the Ministry of Health in this application, with a brilliant opinion, which requires only permission for the use of information involving privacy and privacy. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Denizli]] [[Adana]] 6) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] 7) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Slap]] [[Scholarship]] [[40s.]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] 18) Tur Star Reaper [[Manisa]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[Samsun]] [[Tripoli]] [[Edirne]] The response from the Health Ministry's application for the electronic delivery of all the information of the patients to private health care providers is increasing by the public and relevant NGOs, as it reports that data sending to the health net system will be mandatory from 1 January 2013. Some of the provisions that have been issued by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, published on 11/07/2012 and 28350, have increased their concern that private life has been interfered with, as shown in the press, may be shared with private health institutions and institutions on the basis of a contract with SGK. The reactions and then the Constitutional Court's decision to call it off had been silent for a while. On 15 May 2013, the State Officials Act, which was presented to the TBMM, required by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health of Health and Health to distribute all personal information of physicians to all kinds of private and public health agencies, to all kinds of personal information. With the most intimate information they give physicians for health care and the most private and public health care information given to the patient, the patient who has the knowledge is asked to be collected without being asked, by the private and public health organizations, by forcing them to do so. For example, this includes information that we do not want to share with our relatives, such as the doctor's history of illness, mental health problems, pregnancy tests, reproductive health information, alcohol, smoking, drug use, improve health care information. As information becomes central, security problems are known to increase at that rate. Even when privacy is highly valued, it is inextricable that unwanted situations occur in other countries, such as data loss and data theft. All identification, address, contact information; civil state, disability; alcohol, matter, smoking; work, occupation, learning; income complaints; the patient's history; all study results; all requested examinations; pregnancy tests; the number of women between the ages of 15 and 49; women's health care; the method of family planning; the results of pregnancy; the final custom; the last custom of your father's blood type; the state of birth; all pregnancys that result in birth or miscarriage; all kinds of dental and dental care; all kinds of treatments related; and the number of medical treatments of women between the age 15 and 49; the number of women who are used; and the results of pregnancy may be in violations of national rights; and the results of human rights; the last custom; the father's blood group; whether they are pregnant or not. The European Court of Human Rights does not accept information on private life protected as a sufficient requirement for legal action, as well as the necessary and proportional elements of intervention in a democratic society. The protection of general health within the concept of public order does not allow anyone who has applied to the state, any physician, any health institution, to intervene in their private lives indefinitely. The Constitutional Court has also ruled that such initiatives violate the requirements of democratic society. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Energy efficiency is able to do the same amount of work without reducing our standard of living, production quality and quantity, using less energy. In other words, energy efficiency is reducing energy consumption in the amount of service or product. One of the indicators of efficient use of energy is the energy density expressed as the amount of energy consumed per GDP. Turkey's per capita energy consumption is at 1 fifth of the OECD average, but energy density is said to be twice the OECD average. In other words, twice the amount of energy used in OECD countries is used to produce $1 worth of goods or services in Turkey. Studies on energy efficiency indicate that we have the potential to save 30 per cent in the building sector, 20 per cent in the industrial sector, and 15 per cent in the transport sector, equal to 4 Keban Dam. Therefore, energy efficiency can be said to be among the most important sources of energy in our country. It is known that our country is 75% dependent on outer energy. This addiction rate tends to increase every year. Turkey's import of energy raw materials was $55 billion in 2014. The total import share of this amount was 22.66 per cent. Turkey has paid $425.4 billion in energy raw materials imports in the last decade, 2005-2014. Energy efficiency is also important to our country in these conditions. Despite some incentives, there has been no significant progress in energy efficiency. Especially with the 2000s, many countries have made significant advances in energy density, and there has been no similar improvements in our country. Even in this area, there are significant shortcomings and setbacks, while it is necessary to complete the necessary work and take the necessary precautions to set an example for the public in our country's energy efficiency in the first place. We propose and propose a parliamentary investigation under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Court of Energy Efficiency. [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] 8) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[Sinop]] 11) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Slap]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[Samsun]] 20) Omar Fethi Gürer [[Niğde]] [[Tripoli]] [[40s.]] [[Edirne]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In an effort to investigate all public purchases carried out between 2012 and 15 years, I propose and propose the opening of Parliamental research under the Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the measures needed to be taken for the detection and effective prevention of corruption. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[Adana]] [[Denizli]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[40s.]] [[Ankara]] [[Sinop]] [[Mersin]] 13) Cetin Osman Budak [[Antalya]] 14) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[Samsun]] 23) Bulent Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] [[Tripoli]] [[Edirne]] Political authorities on corruption and poverty, which have been on the agenda for years, have failed to come up with a concrete solution despite their numerous promises to the public over the past 30 years. The AKP governments, which came to power on 3 November 2002, had also made a statement that they would fight corruption in election squares and declarations, but were unable to produce satisfactory data and results. Turkey is ranked in the International Transparency's 2012 Corruption Perception Index, with 49 points among 176 countries in the 54th place. Our country, known for its sensitivity to international reputations, has its place in this ranking. It is another matter that the public wonders whether an accountable, transparent understanding of governance is involved in the democracy of the AKP governments. Political powers that should have a sense of responsibility to all citizens, not to the public, are the most important actors in democracy. This sense of responsibility is not a blessing given to the people; rather, it is a sense of duty. In our country, AKP governments, who say they are fighting against the mob's embezzlement, have to explain what happened to those hosers and what measures they have taken against new modern corruption. With taxes from the sacred earnings of our citizens, there are numerous tenders and results in all our ministries. It is also clear that workers' labor and money are ignored in the system where contractors are enriched and subcontractors are created. The news of a company that makes the same tender reflected in the media at different costs is now a reality that society is used to saddening. As a matter of fact, the total of purchases of goods and services in 2003 and the purchases made by public administrations for production in 2012 reached 94.3 billion in 2012. The purchases, made directly through 2003, amounted to 365,495, totaling 981 million, while in 2012 the figure rose to 10.6 billion. It is known that the method of direct procurement is often used to carry out public procurement without bidding. In 2003, a total of 252 complaints about public purchases were raised to 5,282 in 2012. In order to become a developing, prosperity-level country, the state must be re-examined by the Turkish National Assembly, where all ministries and ties have been opened, concluded or continued tenders have been corrupted, and millions of tax-paying citizens must be restored to the state. Thus, political power, accountability to the public, as well as transparency, will re-remember and apply its true responsibility. The bureaucrat, businessman, political, whoever he is, who has damaged the state, must answer to justice without hiding behind the protectors of the political armor, and the people's true representative to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Most of the income provided by the taxpayers' taxes is being spent irresponsibly and the state is being damaged by numerous tenders under the name of service to the state. These events, called corruption and the greatest cause of poverty, also undermine the public's confidence in the state. The tenders made by all ministries and institutions must be investigated to fight corruption, to determine who is responsible. To this end, it is imperative that parliamentary research be opened to determine the measures needed to be taken so that all public purchases taken from 2012-2015 can be identified and effectively obstructed. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take their place on the agenda, and predicting whether or not the parliamentary investigation will be opened at the appropriate time. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit02spe0040par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 5th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Now the Prime Minister has a thesis, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The state of emergency, which is ongoing throughout the country under the decision dated 21/7/2016 by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, was determined on 3/10/2016 by the Council of Ministers to extend its supply to the Grand National Assembly for three months, effective Wednesday (19/10/2016) at 1:00 p.m. I'll give you what you need. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0040par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 5th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We're continuing negotiations on the Prime Minister's thesis. Government? He's in position. I will now open a meeting on the Prime Ministerial Charter under Article 72 of the Civil Code. On behalf of the government, the groups, and the two MPs. The government and groups have a 20-minute commitment period, and the time period for speaking for individuals is ten minutes. Now, on behalf of the groups, the first statement belongs to Diyarbakır MP İdris Baluken, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Bauken. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0041par0009	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm going to explain our party group's views on an important matter, but unfortunately, the process we've been through now is not even enough to remember the deaths in the time we took their place. We've been trying to remember the people who died for three minutes here, but there's been some memories missing, and I'm going to start talking about them, especially from this stand. As we know, in the middle of the street in broad daylight on October 8th, four young men were murdered, including the nephew of our Parliament Speaker Pervin Buldan. Again, 15 of our citizens lost their lives in the attack on Shemdinli. I wish to extend my condolences to all our citizens who have lost their lives both in Highova and in Shemdinite. Of course, we don't think we're doing any kind of mission while we're talking about these deaths here. We feel that it must be considered a painful, embarrassing situation for all of us to express these deaths from here, and that political efforts to remove the deaths from this country's agenda must be done in this Parliament. However, when we look at the position of the ruling party and especially President Erdogan, who led the ruling party, I regret to say that it is not possible to be hopeful. Look, there was a coup attempt on July 15th. The common will in this parliament, perhaps not seen in the history of democracy in the world, unleashed a great will, and after that coup attempt, parliament demanded that the whole process go through itself to exit the floor of this coup. Unfortunately, both Erdogan and the AKP government chose to nullify an Assembly that had failed the coup in the process. From day one, we said that the antidote to the coup was democracy; that there was social peace, that there was a law state, that there was human rights, that there was an effective coup war by fulfilling the requirements of international contracts that Turkey was committed to, but unfortunately, you did what you shouldn't have done by ignoring all of our warnings. You answered all of our calls with a state of emergency. In 80 provinces, you have built an extraordinary regime of death that we have not yet named in Şırnak, which has yet to be named by human history. The regime in Şırnak is not a state of emergency. Şırnak people have been unable to enter Şırnak for seven months. Despite all the applications we have made regarding Şırnak, you have seen a regime that has not been seen in history in order for Şırnaks to evacuate Şırnak province, and you have responded to the people of Şırnak. Because of the coming winter, thousands of families, thousands of our citizens, who are now in the tent, have been provided only this winter under a warm roof. Let's build a shelter in an infrastructure-free, land-substantiated place. We say, "Let's build a dwelling." You're even blocking it. During this winter, you accept punishing all Kurdish people through Şırnak as a form of governance, a regime. I don't care about any other help being prevented. From the most basic food supplies to all the biological needs necessary for a person to survive, you've brought bans, obstructions, to the campaigns of NGOs, political parties. As soon as a deputy sets foot in Şırnak, you stop him from contacting the people who suffered through the governor of Şırnak. This regime has not yet been named by humanity. There is an OHAL regime in 80 provinces, and in Şırnak, there is a regime of death and persecution that history does not name, which humanity has yet known. You are the owners of all these decisions, Erdogan, and the AKP Group itself. Look, you've taken this House's will completely under the law, and this House is wasting its time. So here's the extraordinary state of mind we're going to talk about, look at the reason for this extraordinary statement, the reason for this statement, which will affect the entire 79 million, there are only three or four sentences, there are no reasons, there are no reasons. Why is the state of emergency extended, why is it needed? There was a process of fighting a coup, and for three months, you -- I'm telling you -- you've run some operations, and what's missing, and what's not enough? You considered it an outrage to report this to the House, and you didn't even bother. For these reasons, the government has asked political parties, the people, their constituents, or members of their own group for the following reasons. You have not even been able to write a reason. Is there any understanding of such a nonsensical understanding that makes such a coven ordinary, negligible? Look, just this paper itself, even this thesis itself -- to discuss the content of the drop -- is methodically, methodically, required that this dissertation be torn and thrown out of here. Let alone vote yes, he deserves to be torn out of a respectful attitude first. So we especially want to express from here that this understanding will never come up with a solution. Dear friends, three months ago, when the state of emergency was declared here, the Prime Minister spoke here to address the entire 79 million and said: "We declare the state of emergency to ourselves, to the state. We declare it to fight the coup, and other than that, we will not victimize society or the people in any way. And don't look at what we've brought in as three months, and we intend to fight the coup as effectively as possible and remove this extraordinary state as soon as possible. Your Deputy Prime Minister said that the process of fighting a coup will be carried out in 40 days, when your cabinet members will be released and the state of emergency will be lifted. Now that we're looking, what did you do for three months? How did you fight the coup? Has the background of the coup been compromised? Are you clear on the political foot of the coup? Have you answered the questions that 79 million have been wondering about you within the institutions, from the command of an army, from the Undersecretary of MIT to his brother-in-law? No, there's no fighting a coup. Under the name of the fight against the coup, you have victimised the poorest parts of this country, its hard-working parts; you have launched a full liquidation process for Kurdish, Alevi, left, socialist, anti-profits. None of the operations you've done for the community have included the A team that will be associated with the coup, not the think tank. We're fighting the coup by taking out the teachers, officers, officers, who were somehow found inside the congregation who were sympathetic to him. You tried to impose the lie on the people of Turkey. I'm sorry, this isn't about fighting a coup. What you're doing is trying to sell the cover of a single man's regime to the people of Turkey. In its extraordinary state, you have brought this one-man regime back to the House. The people didn't give you legal, constitutional assurances. You've run for office, you haven't had the authority to carry out a single man dictatorship in the election. Now, you're reinventing a state of emergency over a single man's regime that will design life, justice and media in your own way, to run with the powers you can't afford. There's nothing acceptable about it. Look, President Erdogan interferes with the Cabinet whenever he wants. He's deposed the prime minister, the group's vice presidents here don't know, the MPs don't know, so they're learning from here. He's taking the ministers, the minister doesn't know. Now I'm going to do revisions in the new cabinet. He says, "No member of the Cabinet knows." Look, I'm going to make a point, and in four or five months at the latest, Prime Minister Bali will definitely remove Yıldırım. It's very clear. Now, can you speak directly to the public about an understanding that has so much to do with the execution? You can't. And since you can't explain it, there's something extraordinary about it, you're trying to give its perception to society. I told you about the House, the House has no authority. There's a decree issued under the law and 550 MPs are watching. In such a case, can you tell the public about a practice that has been so warded by life, that it's a coup to life? You can't. So you have to defend that there is an extraordinary situation. In the same way, you've completely broken the media, you haven't allowed a single voice to be hostile. By investigating the media as the voice of one man's regime, you are particularly trying to bring this one-man regime to life. Judgement is in a poor state. Can we talk about the neutrality and independence of a judiciary that was buttoned up from 100 to 200 meters away when it saw an AKP official? So, since you can't explain these things to society, there's an extraordinary situation in the middle. You're trying to impose an extraordinary state on the people of Turkey based on its perception. There's nothing acceptable about it. Look, I'd like to refer to the work you've done during this State of Emergency with the headlines here: you've appointed trustees to the municipalities. What's the difference if you took out the mayor who got 80 percent of the vote and replaced him as an officer? Oh, we're coupgers. If you say so, which you certainly are, as a political party that has struck the will of the people, you have passed through the political history of Turkey as a coupting government, a coupting group; you have no right to do this, you have no right to do it for any reason. The 28th Februaryers didn't do what you did. When the 28 Februaryers took Erdogan to trial, when they took Sincan Mayor to trial, they couldn't replace him. They respected the internal functioning of that city council, running a process through its legal functioning. By appointing trustees, you've established that you're behind even the 28th Februaryers. If you're going to interfere with the will of the people in this way, why are you building the chest? Let him pick up the palace paper, the pen, who's going to be mayor with 81, who's going to be councilman, and who's going to be city councilman from now on. Oh, you're throwing a trustee on account of fighting a coup? Thanks. You described the construction of the coup, the Fetullahist struck the construction. You said. So, did the Fetullahist grow the construction of DBP, HDP-based municipalities? If you are going to appoint trustees for this reason, shouldn't you start at İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality, Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, Bursa Metropolitan Municipality? Are we the ones who spread all the government's resources under their feet? Even your deputy prime minister came out and we gave them what they wanted, and we favoured every part of the parcel, Ankara. Didn't he say that? If there's going to be a process of trustees going through the fight against the coup, then do it. And there's also a gap that in the past, I don't let the appointed ones get run over. The person or group that says "I don't want to crush the chosen ones." Now they're trying to legitimize the persecution they've come up with, trying to get into the one-party regime, the one-party regime. The AKP district president will be mayor of that province, that district. They couldn't do it in the chest, so they're trying to do it with the KHK, with a sense of impact. Look, you've closed down thousands of institutions, thanks. From the hospital, from the school, from the bank, from the classroom... didn't you cut the opening ribbon of this school, the hospital, all the schools? Look, let's see the opening photos of all of the community's institutions -- I'll bet -- of all of them -- either the AKP minister, or the AKP MP, or the AKP mayor, or -- as he is here -- there is President Erdoğan himself. So -- you can see in the picture -- they went together to open Bank Asia, but they're shutting him down because someone in Asia pulled out a wire transfer. Yeah, is that so insincere? Can you fight a coup like that? If Bank is a crime of Asia, then start from here, starting from the opening. The people of Turkey are waiting for this. You have tried to create a new public regime, under the name of the struggle against the army. You've either discharged or discharged over 100,000 public workers, close to 100,000, easy to speak of. You've created millions of victims, burned more than dry, mixed the trail with the trail of a horse, as you call it. Yeah, do you have the right to do that? How can you fight a coup like that? But we know the trouble, he said. You're after a new public regime that will design the public space entirely according to one man's regime. There's no room for organized struggle, no room for union, no place for secure work. See, now, in Turkey, millions of police officers, soldiers, officers, you've always blessed the police -- no one trusts you; what time will I be relieved of duty? He's worried about what time I'll be thrown out with my family? Why are you doing this? Because you're trying to relieve them of their duties and put your own allies there, and unfortunately you're trying to take refuge in an extraordinary state of mind to build a new public regime, a supporting AKP public regime. Look, you've shut down dozens of TVs, newspapers, radio, broadcasters. Well, it's a little embarrassing, so it's never happened during a coup. I'm an MP with Zazaki's native language, Zazaca. In my language, for the first time in 90 years, a television channel has been set up called Jiyan TV, and you have shut down Jiyan TV. In UNESCO, the United Nations is making a language decision that should be protected for my native language, which should be kept alive, and you silence the television channel that broadcasts in that language to destroy my tongue. What right do you have to do that, do you have that right? You shut down the cartoon channel so Kurdish children don't learn their native language so they don't watch cartoons. You lower your flame, you lower the voice of the worker, we know very well why you fear the voice of life, the voice of life, the voice of life, the İMC, the day TV, the Van TV, because you fear it because there are people who will expose you before history and bring you to an accountable position. You've arrested journalists, intellectuals, writers, artists who have never been seen in any period. Hundreds of journalists in Turkish prisons are currently under intellectual, writer's arrest, including Aslı Erdogan, Necmiye Albay, Ahmet Alton, Mehmet Altan. You're sending him to prison for peace in his mouth, democracy in his mouth. This is what we mean when we say, "You're the greatest coupger." And when we say, "All the methods you follow are civilian coups." There's no way that's credible. Political arrest operations... look, at this time today our co-chairs in Diyarbakır are in custody, all our co-chairs are in custody, and you have taken nearly 60 of our friends HDP and DBP into custody so that they can't set foot outside. What do you want? Then you go out, and these are the ones that call, and the people don't go out. You take refuge in a lie. Yeah, you can't afford to have one meeting and a show on leave. You know when the State of Emergency announced to you that all the rallies you did in Diyarbakir, all the demonstrations you did in Van. But all the public's rallies, all the press statement is an arrest warrant. So you're undefined in these contradictions you're saying. The state of emergency itself is the cause of the political crisis. Turkey has had a political crisis for three months, a major political crisis, and now you want to prolong this political crisis in a way we can't predict. With this political crisis, you have brought Turkey into a major regional crisis with Syrian and Iraqi policy. Of course, there's an economic crisis that comes with every political crisis. Look, the dollar started setting records during your time. It's impossible to keep the dollar. You have carried out a process that has cost this entire country life, poverty, detention, arrest. So from now on, it's about the state of emergency... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have a minute more?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0042par0030	Let's complete it, Mr. Baluken. We'll give you a minute to spare, folks.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0041par0032	So from now on, I'd like to state here that no one will believe the reason you've given us about the state of emergency. Look, 600 of the 1,500 shops in the Closed Market have closed. Go to Istilal Street, go to Kızılay Square, where you can walk from Kızılay to College, where you can see the number of tradesmen closing down, shutting down, bankrupting, to whom you declare this extraordinary state, and you can see it with your own eyes. For all these reasons, it's not possible to agree with this thesis you've brought. Against that, I remind you once again of the firm and upright standing of the HDP (HDP) who voted "no" and greeted a great social struggle in the pursuit of a leading democratic front.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0043par0036	Thank you. In the name of the bands...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0044par0038	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0043par0039	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0044par0040	In his speech, Mr. Baluken made an open taunt, saying, "You are a violent government."
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0043par0041	Come in, Mr. Bostanci, I'll give you two minutes because of the bullying; please, let's not challenge another taunt.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0044par0044	Mr. President, dear members of the House, dear friends, 20 minutes of Mr. Baluken's speech is a high tone of propaganda and a lot of propaganda. Basically, this kind of talk is due to logical inconsistencies. One of these inconsistencies is that every election has been run by the will of the nation for 14 years, and it means that a group of people who have been here by the vote of the nation has been here. He probably doesn't know what a coup is, Mr. Baluken, but he's using it with an extremely arbitrary and subjective meaning, or he feels the need to use it today because it's a severe insult to coupism to the AK PARTI in order to speak out of anger. I reject that once. It doesn't matter if I reject it, every choice this nation has rejected this understanding, this expression, this approach. Second of all, we want to move to the only state-of-the-art party regime... Mr. Baluken, did we get out of the sack today, out of the trunk today? You've been here, the tradition you've come from has known the AK PARTY for 14 years. When have you ever seen us make a major political sense of an extraordinary state or a one-party sense that resembles it? These Parliaments, these elections, these people's decisions, they rebut everything you say. I understand the criticism, but I think it's only logical that we should expect a respectable approach to these 14-year-old events. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0045par0049	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0046par0050	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0045par0051	Mr. Bostanci accused me of inconsistencies. I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0046par0052	Here, I'll give you two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0045par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. I think Mr. Bostanci's historical knowledge and intellectual collection will suffice. It's the Roman era when the first state of emergency was brought to life. Do you know what it's called, Mr. Bostanci, the man who practiced the extraordinary state of the Roman era? It's been called a didictator, a didictator. It's all the methods you've been doing today about the state of emergency that actually meets the requirements of that period that have been defined in Roman law. You guys, yeah, you came out of the trunk or something, but we saw what you were doing when you weren't coming out. Why did you hit the June 7th election, why didn't you recognize it? Why did you turn this country into a bloodbath right after the June 7th elections? Why did you pursue a political style through blood and polling dialectics? Why did you put it in front of you as a program, where the more blood flows, the more the game goes up, the more the blood goes up? And that's what we're talking about when we say, "driving understanding." Yes, it's not July 15th, it's June 7th. Since there wasn't enough time, I couldn't put your coup apps on the table here, I couldn't say it, but the OHAL you're implementing is already the concept of impact, the mind of impact. You know, the whole world is laughing at you, compared to France and America and all that. How many municipalities were appointed trustees in France? How many thousand public workers have been wiped out? How many million victims were created? How many journalists were thrown in prison? How many TVs, radio stations have been silenced? How many, I don't know, cultural genocide operations against the language of the peoples living in France? You have no answer for them. Therefore, your M.O. method is called a coup. The reason for this practice is the desire to be a dictator, just as it is in Roman law. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0047par0062	The second word on behalf of the groups belongs to Manisa MP Erkan Akçay, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0048par0065	Mr. President, I've been sworn in on behalf of the National Movement Party Group about the thesis on the three-month extension of the state of emergency. I salute your honorable committee. As I begin my speech, first of all, I would like to say that this thesis, which the government has submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, may not have given any justification in all the documents presented until now, is a request for a review of one month's accounting and evaluation of the past, and I do not find it right for the Minister of Justice to leave his speech after the speech of these political party speakers. If the reason wasn't written, at least the Minister of Justice was expected to give information on the matter by giving the first speech. Dear lawmakers, the state of emergency is a reflection of the extraordinary and painful events we experienced on July 15th. On the evening of July 15th, we experienced an attempt and attack by a group of terrorist groups who infiltrated the Turkish Armed Forces to take over our country. This attempt was made not only against elected government or lawmakers, but against any opinion, political party or policy, but against the will of the nation, against democracy, against all institutions of the Republic of Turkey, and the Turkish nation was targeted with its entire existence. The July 15 initiative is an attempt to suspend democracy, to ignore national will. July 15th, the civil war trial of imperialist collaborators, the invasion move, is an attempt to rebel, a betrayal of Turkey's division. On the night of July 15th, the government and lawmakers, who served as representatives of our nation and national will, did not give us the opportunity to create real situations by having democracy and law. Our country is going through a very delicate and dangerous time. Therefore, the esteemed MPs, July 15th, are a nation. Turkey has faced an extraordinary and illegitimate situation, while no one can act as if July 15 had not happened as it passed through its darkest days of the Republic of Turkey. So July 15th is binding for everyone. Dear MPs, our state and our nation have never been under attack by such a large-scale organization, terrorist groups. As Turkey passed an extraordinary period, the government's extraordinary state of affairs was voted on 21 July for the unity and integrity of our country and our state. Today we're discussing a three-month extension of the state of emergency. We are conducting this discussion within the very special and delicate balance of relations between parties and the government and the opposition. These balances must continue until the threat to Turkey's back is eliminated. The National Movement Party supports the State of Emergency only in this framework. The state of emergency is a constitutional practice. It is legal, legitimate to fight the circumstances required by the state of emergency by remaining within the Constitution and the law. The State of Emergency does not take our democracy out of the law, and it is no reason to take it out of democracy. The State of Emergency does not prevent the Constitution from carrying out its institutions and regulations. You're all aware of the reasons that led our country to the State of Emergency. These reasons are beneficial for the State of Emergency to continue until they become long - suffering and manageable. But it must not be forgotten that the State of Emergency is a periodal process. This is a period of time, subject, purpose and authority. In the State of Emergency, the maximum effort and care must be taken to avoid the issues required by the period. The emphasis made by Mr. President, who announced the State of Emergency decision on the night of July 20th, has drawn the limits of the State of Emergency, as well as of the reasons for the rulings sent to parliament. The grounds for provisions 667 and 668 also point to the effective continuation of the fight against terrorism in the State of Emergency. The State of Emergency is a step that must be taken, not only to fight all terrorist organisations. That's one of the most important things we have to consider about the State of Emergency decision. The State of Emergency must be limited to any coup attempt and the fight against terrorism, as well as its jurisdiction and borders. You can't keep PKK out of this fight when you're struggling with ا. You can't ignore PKK's companies, the organisation of civil society, the financing network while trying to decrypt the social and economic network. So, once again, I would like to emphasize that regulations must be made to fight the PKK effectively during the period of the State of Emergency. The arrangements to combat terrorism in a state of emergency must be carefully avoided from the outside of this purpose and its state of emergency. It is not possible for the State of Emergency to assess arrangements to design institutional structures that have nothing to do with the fight against terrorism. The Constitution and its powers and responsibilities to Parliament with the Civil Code must be used to get Turkey off the extraordinary agenda. Parliament must return to its agenda and carry out its work as soon as possible. In this framework, the laws of the law must be passed immediately in the House. The government is in charge of the laws and the government is in charge of them. We know that decrees under the rule of law are in preparation for a commission on the parliamentary process. We wish this commission to work and to achieve a productive outcome. Dear lawmakers must be treated primitively, not conjuncturally, when dealing with coup attempt, terrorism and actual situations. The coup attempt was an attempt to create a de facto situation, and we all opposed it. A personal and arbitrary desire for governance is also a fact, and we must all oppose it together. If we believe in democracy, we have to act primitively. The state, civil society and financial structures of this organization must be uncovered and accounted for in a state of emergency. However, it must be carefully avoided the creation of an abuse environment that will discuss the legitimacy of the fight and which the terrorist organisation can use to its advantage. For example, you can't justify a radical change in the institutional structure of the state, and you can't turn the fight against ▪ into a process that will purge and digest opponents. No one can be declared a terrorist because the bank, the school, is connected to the classrooms, which operates only with the control and approval of the state, should not be used to create the period of the State of Emergency. We are all aware of the victims of the fight against ▪ You know our nation's anxiety and unrest. Justice is on the back of a knife. Building justice is the most fundamental responsibility of being a state. Victims with judicial decrees must be dealt with. I think it's an opportunity for the extraordinary state that's been extended. The practice that will personalize the judicial process must be corrected at this time, not based on objective information and documents. However, there is one other thing that must be done to establish justice: In order to fully establish justice, all elements of the parallel state structure must be identified and brought to justice. During this second trimester of your extraordinary state, all elements of the creation of betrayal of the council of the sultan must be revealed. The leaders of this terror council in the political, military, economic and bureaucratic areas must be brought to justice, explained to our nation and accountable. While thousands of people are being removed from their posts and arrested, the company's stay of the hill management will undermine the faith and trust of justice in our society. Another issue I would like to address within the framework of justice as part of the fight is the issue of the nation's struggle. On 13 August, Prime Minister Yıldırım announced that they had 17-25 December. To identify the mile in this way is to personalize the issue and reduce it to a AKP-cam fight. But you can't ignore any of the past activities of an organization when you're fighting a terrorist organization. I'd like to give you an example: Everyone entering public institutions is being examined today through the 2010 KPSS exam. Obviously, there are doubts about this test. However, on July 11, 2012, Prime Minister Erdogan stated that the test was extremely successful, clean and smooth. And yet, if you're throwing the anchor to 17-25 December 2013, why is the 2010 KPS on the agenda? If 2010 KPSS is on the agenda, then where are the politicians and bureaucrats who backed this test? This second term of the State of Emergency is a critical process. Yesterday, today, tomorrow, wherever it reaches, all relations of ▪ must be revealed. Again, there should be careful work on the political foot of ا, that some ruling members and speakers should do their own cleaning, that every party has been carefully cleaned up at its own parties so far, that none of us are allowed to stay, that those with political power and positions are protected. There is no doubt that the construction of it should be deciphered, regardless of the explanations. Responsibility is in the government. It is the government who will identify and hand over the authorities to the judiciary. The government says that each party should do its own cleaning. It is the government's confession that it failed in the fight against the government. Instead of attempting to instruct opposition parties to clean up the opposition within themselves, concrete information must first be shared about who has infiltrated the opposition parties. As the National Movement Party, I would like to stress that as the most sensitive party in the matter, the necessary documents will be completed within the next half hour. In this framework, I would also like to remind you that the public is curious as to how the ruling party has been cleansed by doing so in its own way. Dear lawmakers, no one who remembers the night of July 15th should object to the extraordinary measures taken to ensure our country's peace, security and peace. In the context of the anti-terrorism fight, we see that members of the terrorist organization should be purged from their state staff as well as an extraordinary state reaction to the fight against total terrorism. The security and future of our country and our nation is above any political debate. In our opinion, the State of Emergency is not a decision against national will, it shouldn't be. The State of Emergency is an extraordinary constitutional measure against those who put the Turkish nation and the Turkish state on the target board. The State of Emergency is an instrument for the fight against Ankara and for all kinds of terrorism. However, I must point out that the State of Emergency cannot be declared forever. It is imperative that the balances of our country from the legal system to politics be settled and passed through the usual period, that democratic processes be run in a normal way. In this transition, the culture of inter-party negotiations and reconciliation is crucial. The government is the government, which must best contribute to the reconciliation of politics after July 15th and follow a careful line and style. Once again, I'd like to emphasize that we can't accept any grounds based on decomposition, intermediaries or regime changes. It must be fought yesterday, today, tomorrow, without perspective, but without authority, without purpose, with all other terrorist organizations. By the principle that the common future of the Turkish nation is law and democracy, we must strengthen our commitment to the parliamentary and constitutional system. Of course, we won't forget July 15th, we won't forget, but we won't forget the road to July 15th. As we oppose any kind of coup, we oppose any kind of de facto situation, democracy and unlawful pursuit, the destruction of the Constitution, and we will oppose it. First, we will continue to show sensitivity for our country, our nation, our brotherhood, our sovereignty. As the Nationalist Movement Party on the night of July 15th, just as we were a political party that struck the first blow to the coup attempt, if we have made the first opposition to the coup attempt, we are continuing this primitive stance today. For us, opposition is not about ignoring our country's priorities for political gains and hoping to get out of the way. Therefore, we need to make solutions, to be constructive, to present accounting for how to correct wrong together with the ruling and all opposition parties. Wherever we stood in the fight against terrorism yesterday, we're in the same place today, and our position hasn't changed. We're not just going to change our position in opposition, we're both acting on opposition and national resistance. With our country at the edge of the bloody dagger of terrorism, we can't turn our backs on those who rule the state. Our support today is for the preservation of the Turkish nation's unity and unity of the Republic of Turkey. For the trauma of July 15th to pass and the black clouds over our country to be scattered immediately, the State of Emergency is required, but I repeat, this is not a state of emergency. We will continue to show every effort and determination for the survival of our nation and our government. As a result, I sincerely wish that the three more months of the State of Emergency would bring peace, peace, peace, peace to our country, unwavering arbitration of democracy and law, and justice would be established.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0049par0080	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Meanwhile, we wish Mr. Erhan, the new Deputy Director of the National Movement Party, good luck.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0050par0084	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0049par0088	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Levent Gök. Mr. Sky, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've got 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0051par0092	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute you all. I've made a promise on the state of emergency, which has been offered to extend for another three months. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, today is the day of the ashram. The importance of Muharrem's month and ashram's day is to stand up to the oppressors, to the oppressors, to the arbitrary rule habits of the world. The Lord Hussein and his 72 friends didn't die in vain. When the truth behind those deaths is combined with many of the realities that the world disputes today, it is once again undermining the fact that, even today, there must be an unprecedented resistance to the oppressors, and that everyone must mobilise against the habit of arbitrary governance. I'd like to begin by saying that I wish the Ashure and the battle bear once again good for the Islamic world. Mr. President, on the night of July 15th, citizens of this Parliament and all of Turkey, lawmakers have shown unprecedented resistance in parliament against a coup attempt, under bombs, under tanks in the streets, under weapons, under the shadow of guns -- at the cost of destruction. When we were in that hall on that July 15th, when Mr. Minister of Justice was here, the bombs began to explode, and all the parties in the House, all the other political actors outside the Parliament, stood very clear before the coup, and they said: "We will never allow Turkey to be wounded by democracy. This Parliament will live. The enemy has not been able to shut down this Assembly, which rules the Battle of Salvation, unfortunately, the soldiers, the tanks, the planes under their command, will never be able to silence it. We respect the national will, and all the parties here that night agreed that: "The Parliament must work, work, show it to the enemy and to the coupters in the first place." And with that understanding, they all wrote an epic story in the parliament, which was destroyed under the bombs -- all the MPs in Turkey -- celebrating all my friends who were here -- and they all worked the Parliament. What's the point? Let Turkey not enter an extraordinary period, not meet coup law. If the coup is a success in that extraordinary painting that awaits us, as much as our democracy will suffer, let's shield our chests here if necessary to prevent those wounds, put our lives on the line, but let's keep Turkey in a normal order. That's what we're here for. We shared those feelings with each other, shoulder to shoulder, until morning. Everyone looked at each other differently that day. We agreed that the political language before July 15th should no longer be spoken. When we went down to the basements we thought were shelters, we lived with those feelings until morning. Let Turkey normalize, prevent this coup, let Turkey never meet the coups again, let it not become extraordinary; it was fought for. Dear lawmakers, however steeped in Turkey's coup attempt on July 15th, what happened the night after that, unfortunately, on this floor of July 15th, was driven out of the will reflected by the common will. Why did we fight? Don't let Parliament shut down, let the normal term go on. That's why we voted no for the announcement of the first state of emergency brought by the government on July 21st. Such a coup attempt was prevented, we all struggled. We're all fighting side by side, we're back to back, we don't have to be extraordinary, why do you need it? Whatever it takes, let's do it all in Parliament. In this determination, the Republican People's Party proposed the facts of the world, the standards of international institutions, the norms, and he said: "We are with you in the fight with ▪ but we do not want Turkey to be victimised by an extraordinary period. At that time, after the night of the coup, the government couldn't explain itself to the world. No one from the world has come and condemned the coup in Turkey. We expected this from the most respected countries in the world, and we said, "Why don't you condemn the coup attempt in Turkey? The government sent parliamentarians, and we joined our friends, tell them about the coup attempt. But there is not a single word of reproach from the world, my dear friends. If you ask why? The European Parliament Reporter for Turkey Kati Piri gave its answer. Turkey, the government has announced to the world that there is a Fetullahist organization in Turkey, you know? It was a coup, and we are fighting it. But European Parliament Rapporteur Kati Piri said: "Dear Turkish citizens, citizens in Turkey; Gulan told and supported the AKP in Brussels and other European capitals for years. It is now possible that the world will not understand. For years you have praised, supported, protected, protected, and then in one night, with the opposite understanding, why do you not understand the attempt of the Fetullahist coup? And when you asked, they said to you, brother, for years you have advertised it to us, you have told us, protect it, protect their schools, protect this Fetullahist structure. That's the problem. (CHP clapping in rows) That's the problem. Now, in a painting like this, a state of emergency has been declared. Deputy Prime Minister Numan Survivor said: "Friends, we'll keep it short. We'll be in charge in three months, but we'll be done in a month and a half, and we'll lift the state of emergency, and Turkey will be normal. Deputy Prime Minister Numan says he's saved. And what does the Minister of Justice say? He's at peace. On July 21, 2016, he said: "Friends, we put a three-month term here, but we don't have to complete that period. We will remove this extraordinary state in less than three months' time, normalizing Turkey. Mr. Secretary will probably give us a reason to do so. I mean, it's in Turkey's right to know the reason for the three-month extension after three months, dear friends. Why is it extended? I, in the same way, am concerned that there is no motive for the invoice and that the Minister of Justice does not inform the House. What's the motive? I mean, that reason has to be given, so that everyone can say what they're going to say against him. This reason has not been provided. My dear friends, we later learn that Mr. President has sent a message that the state of emergency will return to its normal state, that I know the works of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It's easier to make extraordinary decrees than to run the Assembly. So what happened? Parliament's offline. We can't accept that, my dear friends, we can't accept that. No one should agree to allow the House to be shut down, no one. Whatever happens should be here. We've eaten bombs here, and we've fought against the enemy, but we'll do the law together. Look, as a government, Turkey presented a letter to the Secretary General of the United Nations after declaring a state of emergency. I have in hand the English text of this letter, my dear friends, and in this text, Turkey will suspend 13 articles of the Convention on Personal and Political Rights. The total number of substances will be suspended 27; Turkey will suspend half of them, he said. The esteemed MPs, who were announced in 1990 and who had been praised by the AKP, were removed from the State of Emergency. The pressure's over. I live freely in my village. Regarding what he called the period of the state of emergency declared in 1990, Turkey has informed the United Nations that it has suspended its full six articles, exactly six. He removed five of these items two years later. During the time of the most terrorist incidents, Turkey reported that it suspended only one item, reporting its derogation to the United Nations, reporting its restrictions. Now that we're arguing, they're giving an example of France. France has the State of Emergency, yes. What did France do, my dear friends? He's reported three of the 27 articles, only three. Freedom and security are the 9th article; freedom of travel, 12th; privacy, immunity of persons, secrecy, and three articles of the 17th article. How many articles does Turkey state? In 1990, we reported 6 articles. When it comes to 2016, the ruling party, which boasts the rise of the State of Emergency, brings in 13 articles. My dear friends, one of these items is the 14th Amendment, the right to a fair trial. My dear friends, if the government officials... I, Mr. Secretary, would like to say that I expect a very careful answer from you on this matter. When I spoke, I saw that you had executives who didn't know about this stuff. The right to a fair trial. My dear friends, no matter what a state does, no matter what freedoms they suspend, they cannot suspend the right to a fair trial. Now, you know what you're doing? Mr. Secretary -- in this regard -- if this derogation has been reported to the United Nations without your knowledge, withdraw it immediately, the 14th Amendment, the right to a fair trial. Why? Turkey awaits because of the great dangers, my dear friends. We call them victims. We call them victims. We call them victims. Mr. Prime Minister is making a statement today saying, "Don't make a statement." But the Prime Minister doesn't answer the question: The crisis table has been established in every province. What was this crisis table? There's a table for the victims to apply for, so there's a crisis, dear friends. Let me tell you what we understand about the victims we mean: that you confiscated a company, that company has a dealership somewhere else. That company has been shut down, such as selling refrigerators, selling TVs, not getting goods, and those dealerships are closing. The workers who work at those dealerships, their wives, their children, these are the victims. Or another person, you're shutting down another place, there's a lot of places associated with it that can't give, can't collect. We have citizens who can't collect from many companies right now. The field of victimization has expanded greatly. Now, when we look at a painting like this, the government says the world doesn't understand us. But you don't understand them either. Look, they understand Turkey very well. When the first decree was issued, European Council of Human Rights Commissioner Nils Muiznieks issued a report -- in my hand, I hope to see you tomorrow -- and he said in that report... Dear friends, I don't know if you're looking at these reports, we're taking the decrees as Republican People's Party, we're taking our own legal legislation ahead of us, we're taking the European legislation, we're taking the laws of the United Nations, we're taking the laws of human rights organizations -- these are important for you, for Turkey -- decisions that can bring heavy sanctions on Turkey -- do you know that? Mr. Secretary, do you see these reports, do you examine them when they're drafting these decrees? The Minister, of course, chose to speak rather than to listen to my speech, so as he did not see it, my belief that he would see it after that has weakened. Now, the men have written, they say: "I am concerned about the decision issued in the first state of the law, which was declared in Turkey last week." Who says that? The European Council of Human Rights Commissioner says so. The restrictions on the limitation of human rights taken by Turkey are contrary to human rights contracts, he says. What more can he say? It says: "We recently sentenced Turkey to 14 days of detention in 1996, and you increase the detention period to thirty days." Guys, what do they have to say? I don't know if you're seeing this, but we're seeing this, and we know what's waiting for us. And then, General Secretary of the Council of Europe Jagland, Turkey must place certain evidence and judge everyone who is related in the courts. Well, what else can they say? So, says the Deputy Secretary General of the United Nations, the European Council's Human Rights Commissioner, and a report came out a few days ago from the Council of Europe, which will be published in the coming days, almost like a due date. It's really hard not to be sad when you see it. So in order to see what's waiting for us, I share it with you, whether you do it or not, but I stress the fact that in the coming days, Turkey will be facing very serious lawsuits at the European Court of Human Rights, which we will face. Just as we expressed when injustice was done in Ergenekon, when injustice was done in the sledgehammer, and those who were tried there received trillions of compensation. Mr. Minister, my dear government, my dear AKP ▪ brothers, my valued MPs; Turkey has a huge pile ahead of it, a huge trial shower has begun, and there are now 20,000 lawsuits. That's the problem. I mean, now you're prolonging the state of emergency. So, can these victims be prevented? I mean, in Turkey, almost 50,000 people were laid off, and that's how many people were suspended. If they're all guilty, that's fine, but if they're not, what are you gonna do? Mr. President, valued lawmakers aim to eliminate this threat or threat if the extraordinary management procedures in modern democracies, with an extraordinary threat and danger towards the existence of the state or the nation, cannot be eliminated by ordinary measures. Then what is it? Now that our coup attempt was prevented on the night of July 15th, this threat has been eliminated, that reason has now been eliminated. Now, that's why, when you're involved in arbitrary applications that will make the extraordinary state a normal state, that becomes a painting that the whole world is watching very carefully. There's no way out of this. My dear friends, the whole world is watching this extraordinary situation in Turkey, and they know what is being done in Turkey. As Republican People's Party, we, the PKK, the DHKP-C, the People's Party, who are holding weapons no matter what its name, are desecrating all elements that kill innocent people, bomb our Parliament, attempt a coup attempt, and we will continue to stand against them all from now on, but remain in law, remain within constitutional borders. When you are separated from the Constitution, when you begin a arbitrary practice, there is a great deal of trouble for you. We need to fix this. How do you fix this? The President of the Constitutional Court said the other day at the vows of the two members, he said: "The extraordinary management procedure refuses to suspend the constitutions completely, that fundamental rights and freedoms should be completely unusable." The President of the Constitutional Court said. So this is our legal legislation, this is the international legislation, and the practices of Turkey, the government, in a very worrying picture, are the size of Turkey that will confront irreparable compensation cases in the face of the victims created. We see this painting. In this painting, we see that by taking the extraordinary form of power into the ease of the state, by taking out the Parliament, by handing over the work that must be done in parliament, it also moves towards a sense of arbitrary governance, and we're looking at it with concern. This is Turkey's most important problem. If, with such anxiety, you attempt to restructure Turkey, to govern Turkey, to change the organs of the state, to remove other institutions, to restructure it, it would be contrary to the founding philosophy of the Republic of Turkey. At the same time, with the ease of the state of emergency, the secular education system is abandoned in schools, the most peaceful demonstrations are banned, and Turkey stands before us today as a state of emergency. As a result -- because my time is over, my dear friends -- is the most realistic way for us to come to normal order, given the fact that our laws, our own laws, our own practices, and our experience from the past, the extraordinary state is over immediately, the fact that the Assembly is operational. Therefore, we, the Republican People's Party, oppose the coups, but respect the law, respect the Constitution, and know the universal norms of the world. In this regard, I respectfully announce to all of you that we will vote against the extension of the state of emergency.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0052par0118	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0053par0119	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0052par0120	I have a request for a statement according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0053par0121	For a minute, please.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0052par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, politics is a business of courtesy, language and style, level business. There is room in this framework for political leaders, political parties, heavy criticism, sometimes heavy places that push the limits of endurance. However, there is no room for any political personality, any political leader to be insulted and insulted. Yesterday, a member of the AKP Izmir MP, whose name I do not wish to mention, has given our co-chair abuses and insults that we cannot use through social media. Again, the same person has attacked the HDP MPs with an example of ineptitude in front of the entire community with these harsh insults and insults. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I will, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0054par0129	Complete, please, please.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0052par0130	In particular, there are government officials here, AKP members of the group, and I'm sure the Speaker has information on the matter. We'd like to ask if they're willing to accept this situation. If they don't agree, we're saying that they need to conduct an investigation into this person, because it's not the first case, it's something he's done over and over again. If you're going to allow yourself to be insulted and insulted by the president of a 6 million-vote political party, then we're probably going to have to take political criticism at a different level, which we're never going to get. This person, Fetullah Smiley, who called him the Turkish miracle, is the greatest Turkish thinker of the last thousand years. He has a brain the size of a walnut to those who criticize him. So, let the AKP take into account, who is the biggest nut brain in this situation, and they probably will answer the question. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] To ignore the attitude he has put forth, he now attacks HDP (HDP) and HDP (HDP) President with insults and insults to hide him. I hereby submit this to the information of the group's vice presidents, government officials, and the Speaker of Parliament. As HDP, I would also like to state that we have filed a criminal complaint regarding their relationship with the coupist structure -- as the ruling party calls it -- for defamation and blasphemy.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0055par0135	Thank you. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0056par0138	Mr. President, thank you. There's criticism in the political language, there's severe criticism, but insults and blasphemy are not acceptable in any way. AK PARTY has no such language, no such approach. If Mr. Baluken can give us a detailed assessment of what this is about, of course we'll examine them. Social media is sometimes available in a variety of languages. Social media is an interesting place. Whoever does what, of course, needs to follow it, and you need to do what you need to do if it's in your source. But, blasphemy, as a principle, is in no way our approach. If there's anything to do with this, we'll do what we have to do. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0057par0142	Thank you. Yes, the final word on behalf of the group belongs to Gaziantep MP Abdulhamit Gül, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Mr. Rose, come in.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0058par0149	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group to discuss the decision of the Council of Ministers, starting on October 19, 2016, that the state of emergency should be extended for another three months. I salute you all. Today is 10 Muharrem Ashure Day. Today is a historic, meaningful, sad day that holds an important place in the history of mankind. By bearing the love of the people in our hearts, we will never forget the Lord of the martyrs Huseyin and his struggle, never leave him on the ground. What happened in Kerbala is also a historic event for Muslims to remind mankind of how important unity and unity are to the brotherhood. The love of Muhammad and his followers will endure forever on earth until the Day of Resurrection, and no one will be able to stop it. With these feelings, I cherish the master of the martyrs, Lord Hussein, and all the martyrs. On 15 July 2016, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which never closed and led the struggle for the Liberation War, was again the headquarters, headquarters, headquarters of an epic battle, and has again become the Veteran Assembly, maintaining the national will, holding human rights and honor. I hereby salute the Veterans' House with respect again. Dear friends, our nation is a nation in love with its will. Like our future struggle on July 15th, it was once again proven by the evanmerism he showed at the cost of his life. Our 241 martyrs, 2,194 gasses are the honorary medal of our beloved nation, which has fought this treacherous act. For this occasion, I pray to our beloved martyrs, God's mercy, and to our veterans, that they may live a better life than my Lord. Mr. President, good lawmakers, 10 of our soldiers and 5 of our citizens, including Iran's nationals, died two days ago as a result of a vicious terrorist attack on our security forces by the PKK in Şemdinli. Again, in front of his children, Van Özalp County Vice President Aydın Mütü has been martyred again as a result of an attack by a rogue PKK terrorist organization. Again, at around 11:00 last night, another district president, AK PARTI Dicle District President Deryan Aktert, was killed and killed in an attack by a rogue terrorist organization at work again. I pray for God's mercy to our fallen security forces, to our martyrs. Yesterday, we were in the area with our Minister of Interior and Deputy Group Mehmet Mush, where we went to the condolences of our candidate Ahmet Buddhak, who died in Şemdinli. My dear brothers, what we saw there was a fact that the people of the region are now raising their voice to the PKK against what the PKK has done, saying out loud that it is with the state, and we have seen the ugly face of terror there once again. But there was another fact we saw that Aydın Mütü was martyred, but his wife was killed in Kurdish. But he said, "Let my state live, let my state live." No one will be able to break this language. No one's gonna break this tie. We will fight together for our Turkish and Kurdish flag, for our oppressor, for our state. And I'll take the little girl the way my father showed me. I will become a teacher and serve my own country. Recent attacks by PKK terror organizations have been increasing, especially towards EC PARTI agencies. The only reason for this is that the operations were carried out decisively and successfully. The PKK's terrorist organisation has concentrated its attacks on politicians, especially the EC PARTY, as a result of being trapped, helpless. But, no matter what they do, we will continue to fight this fight in that region and all over Turkey until there is only one source left of the AKP. My dear brothers and dear friends, our 1st candidate in the name of Ahmet Budak in Şemdinli, we will feast with your father on a holiday day, saying, "Will you call your father?" After the child's summoning and going out, our brother, Ahmet Budak, our patriotic brother, these traitors have made a vile, treacherous martyr. Here, their blood will not remain on the ground, this struggle will continue decisively. Dear friends, dear lawmakers, there's a fact that the biggest problem in the region is the PKK problem, and we're all going to get rid of it together. A 13-year-old boy named Fırat Simpil died on his way back from the grocery store to get his mother something from the grocery store. A 16-year-old boy named Yasin Bör was martyred by these traitors while delivering meat. But the whole world sees the treachery of this organization, which has set a saying against it, that I will uphold the rights of the so-called Kurds, who have persecuted the people of this region. Hopefully, this will be their final struggle. They and all the forces that support them, all the elements, will be defeated by this struggle. People and history will never forgive those who say nothing to the terrorist organization, keep their distance. The PKK is a terrorist organization. The DEA is a terrorist organization. Those who don't say it, those who can't say it are supporters of those organizations, are as responsible as they are. But let everyone know that those who put their backs against terrorist organizations, against nationalized tanks, against the F16s, are doomed to be defeated by this nation. Sooner or later, people will know to defeat and conquer tanks, barrels, and terror organizations against him, just like a soul he won against seven heifers in Çanakkale. July 15th is already a historical, epic demonstration, proof of that. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are scheduled to extend the state of emergency for three months, starting on October 19, 2016, at a meeting of the Council of Ministers. This decision was decided to fight effectively and successfully against Å and other terrorist organisations; this decision was made to protect our country, our republic, our democracy. So we think this decision is very important to the unity of our nation and to the survival of our state. It's said that the state of emergency is not in the Constitution, it's illegal, it's the AK PARTY, or the government spontaneously removes such a mechanism. However, the provisions 119 of the Constitution and the continuation of the Constitution have been established, in which cases the state of emergency can be implemented, and all procedures are in accordance with the framework set in the Constitution. So, in order for this challenge to be given effectively, we find that the extraordinary state to be extended for another three months is correct as the AK PARTY, and we say that we will support it. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have entered a new era in every respect, with the end of the world's cold war. At this point, interstate struggles and competitions are conducted in new and very sophisticated ways, not in the usual, conventional ways. Among these new ways, cyber attacks are being carried out through the media, by setting up a number of bureaucratic mechanisms, by bringing up mass protests, so that countries are destabilised, and public opinion is being manipulated. We've seen them for the past three years through the Gezi, through the 17-25 December process, and finally through the July 15 coup attempt, but with our nation's upright stance and with our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan fighting with his nation, we've managed to repel all these battles, all these attacks. It is important to point out that this attack against Turkey is the work of those who are uncomfortable with the big Turkey case. As we work for the great Turkey, they will try to get ahead of it and make a move, but our friends and our nation will be assured that no attack will go unrequited. Mr. President, it is not coincidental for PKK and DEAS terrorist organizations to act after the July 15 coup attempt by the terrorist organization; it is a fiction, a design. In this sense, PKK, DEAŞ and AKP terrorist organisations are the networks of evil and terror that are driven by the same focus, against the growth and progress of Turkey. Thus, after the coup attempt on July 15th, the extraordinary state of state is not limited to the terrorist organization that has taken the coup, but is directed at them with all these evil centers, aimed at eliminating the focus of evil. Dear friends, on July 15th, our nation gave a paper to the political institution and to the authorities. Our nation has said, "Destroy those who mean the state, the nation, and the future of our country, and make it harmless." No more July 15ths, no more coup attempts in this country, and on July 15th, our nation gave politics an assignment to take all necessary measures. For this reason, a 40-year-old terrorist organization, tacitism, cryptography, all kinds of lies, deception, a terrorist organization that led it to a terrorist organization cannot be a fight that began and ended on the evening of July 15th. It is clear that this is a process that has to continue decisively, to be successful to the end. Thus, the fight against ▪ has begun, and it is not a finished battle, it is an ongoing process. Dear friends, when the coup attempt took place on December 17th-25th, I'm afraid that at that time, the EC PARTI was left alone in the struggle of the EC PARTI, and the current President, as Prime Minister, the EC PARTY, and in that sense, what the EC PARTI had said was ignored, but on July 15th, the truth was understood. Right now, it's really up to us to fight this structure together -- a total struggle -- which is meant for the unity of the nation. We were all here that night, and those bombs were dropped from over there, at the top of the Coven, at the top of the Veteran Assembly, without making a distinction between CHP, MP, AK PARTI. Knowing this, the AK PARTY was left alone until July 15th, but at least after July 15th, it's what our martyrs and our beloved nation expect of us as a political institution. And in the process, there are -- 60,000 people suspended from the victims, 71,000 objections -- so there's a terrorist organization that's doing an all-out perception operation to make this fight fail, but some politicians are unfortunately supporting this perception operation. Now, Mr. Levent Gök has just read all reports from the European Council of Turkey's rapporteur. I mean, there's no need for the Council of Europe to appoint a reporter from Turkey, and you've been a pretty good reporter for them. I don't think that kind of reporting is necessary. This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where we can all make our own will in a sovereign manner, and with common sense, we should all -- no need for other people's reports -- we should have said that those who remain silent here during the bombing of Parliament in Turkey have no reputation, that the practices in Turkey are within the framework of the law. It was as if the 15th of July had never happened, there were no bombs, the F16s didn't take off; were they a children's game, were they a dream? It is never right to ignore these experiences and to ignore them. If anyone thinks they've been wronged, judicial and administrative mechanisms are all clear. There's an opportunity to apply for them. But no one should desecrate their spirituality, their memory, before the real victim is the nation, where the Omar Halisdemir, the 16-year-old Abdullah Tayyip, and the special police of action, the heroes who were martyrs, before the blood of our soldiers dried up. We lived on July 15th, and those who died on July 15th are showing us that for this country, we must fight effectively, actively, and intervene against these terrorist organizations. Look, my friends, the person who listens to the Chief of Staff and instructs the Joint Chiefs of Staff is a teacher at work and comes out as part of the investigation. Thus, it is evident that such a struggle is to fight not just one class, but one class, but all groups that support terrorism, who cooperate with all elements of terrorism. A method of combat that will wipe out this terrorist organization must be fulfilled and we must perform it successfully. By using religion, using religious sacred values, it is our duty to save a totalitarian, totalitarian, fascist, authoritarian structure, an organization, all of us, from threatening this country. The fight against ▪ must be carried out effectively in bureaucratic, political and sociological areas. This struggle is a matter of the survival of our nation and our government. On the one hand, these networks nested within the state will be purged, while the true face of this structure will be revealed, which has drawn closer to our nation by wearing a false mask of faith. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers; see, there are objections as to the extraordinary state-of-the-art decision on July 15th, which had been issued earlier in the three months before -- why was it extended before -- and now the Parliament is being shut down. Dear friends, the decision of the Council of Ministers has come to parliament, your precious peace, our Veteran Assembly, and there is an opportunity to confirm or reject it by Parliament's decision. So in all applications, there is a system of law, where Parliament is on line, including the KHK, the state of emergency. In this regard, the law was therefore disabled during its extraordinary state of mind. There is never an acceptable side to claims. In the meantime, we are not offended that HDP has also been a spokesman. It's a language that's always expressed its back on terrorist organizations, expressing it at every opportunity, and in that sense, we've seen again today what it means to visit the mayor of Diyarbakır's capital city. In fact, on June 7th, on March 30th, in the November 1st elections, when we saw an expert with a headscarf on the CHP, when we saw an expert with a headscarf in the HDP, when we were surprised at the polls, we saw that they actually had their own members, that they were there to protect the chests of CHP, HDP, and the ballots that they loved very much. Today, no one can say, "Get up and clean up what's inside of you."
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0059par0171	Is it written on your forehead? Is it written on your forehead?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0060par0172	What do you mean? Say you're sorry! Say you're sorry!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0058par0173	Here, all parties have to put up a whole fight in that sense.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0059par0174	Is it written on your forehead? You're all rooting for him!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0060par0175	Do you have a monopoly on headscarf and religion?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0061par0176	Are they all yours?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0062par0177	We've all seen it in the polls, how the co-operated...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0063par0178	Are all those wearing headscarfs? Shame, shame!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0064par0179	Congressmans, please don't interfere.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0065par0180	Do you have a monopoly on all the headscarfs?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0064par0181	Let's not interfere, lawmakers.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0066par0182	Mr. President, he's declared all the headscarfs. There's no such thing as rudeness.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0065par0183	Look at you talk, you're a little embarrassed by your position.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0067par0184	The whole of Turkey saw it. We saw that on March 30th, they were in alliances to see how we could be against the AK PARTY on June 7th, on November 1st, so that we wouldn't hurt the country. We don't blame parties here.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0068par0186	Your group vice president, your group vice president, look at the photo!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0069par0187	Look at the photos, the photos.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0070par0188	The founding leader's cheek to cheek, question the poses.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0071par0189	I'm just saying this so that after July 15th, we'll have a more careful, careful way of fighting against him. So as a last word...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0070par0191	It's your father, your father. You're all dads.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0072par0192	You're not gonna make it, you're all gonna go.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0071par0193	Dear friends, in the Veteran Assembly...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0073par0195	Explain to the mayors, explain to the party presidents.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0074par0196	You'll all pay for the situation. Your father's in the city.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0075par0197	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0074par0198	They're trying to throw their own crimes at other people.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0075par0199	Here, finish it in a minute.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0076par0200	In this Veteran Parliament, we call on all friends and enemies once again, that we will not embarrass this nation that resists on July 15th, that we will never attempt to invade this country again, that we will do together a Turkey that no one will ever be able to fight or succeed in making this country an Istrillal March...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0074par0201	Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0077par0202	Tell me if the headscarfs are in the band!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0076par0203	...and I also urge the entire political institution to fight with the cooperation of the entire political institution against the threat to the entire political institution.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0077par0204	You've declared all headscarves to be a disgrace!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0078par0205	Mr. Speaker, how many of you are there? Get him out of there, get him out of here!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0076par0206	I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0079par0209	We'll see tomorrow, we'll see the people in your party one by one! Disrespectful human being!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0080par0210	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0081par0211	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0082par0212	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0080par0213	Dear Sky... Mr. Bauken, I'll give you my word later. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0083par0216	Sir, the speaker has teased me and our group in two separate parts of his speech.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0084par0217	That you're immoral.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0083par0218	First of all, I've just made a statement that I'm speaking on behalf of the Council of Europe, against the Council of Europe's statements.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0085par0219	Mr. Sky, I promise you for two minutes of bullying. Here you go. Two minutes, I promise. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0086par0223	You've all been there, all of you.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0087par0224	You're all gonna show up tomorrow.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0085par0225	On behalf of your person and group.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0088par0226	By God, open up. Listen to what Birgül Ayman Güler said.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0089par0227	Look at what you're saying first!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0090par0228	Look at what you're saying first. The Minister of Justice is here, listen to what he says!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0091par0229	You've all been there.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0092par0230	You're the only ones posing for cheek to cheek!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0093par0231	If it's not, why did you say we were fooled? It's that clear.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0094par0232	Please, Mr. Lawmakers... Here you go.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0095par0236	Mr. President, I strongly reject the words of our friend, who has just been here on behalf of the AKP Group, after all the efforts we've made to change his political language after July 15th. For one thing, it's an ignorant speech and a slanderous speech. Let's put your ignorance on the record first. He says, Mr. Speaker, that Levent Gök spoke here on behalf of the Council of Europe, spoke here as a European Council reporter. He came to a very unrelated, unrelated point. I remind the speaker that the Republic of Turkey is a state of law and is bound by international obligations. Mr. Speaker, I'd like you to read the 90th article of our Constitution. And how do you do it with this information? Inter-national agreements on fundamental rights and freedoms, according to the law, and inter-national agreements may be carried out because the law has different provisions on the same issue. Is that true? What I've just said are the contracts that you signed under as a government. You're saying: I don't know the United Nations. I know the European Council. Is that what you mean? And don't try to make the Republican People's Party look like you about that. If you have one proven, documented information about the Republican People's Party, present the document, we're ready to do what we need to do, but are you ready to face yourself? Are you ready to kneel before Master Fetullah?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0096par0241	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0097par0242	We're facing it.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0095par0243	Face it. Let's face it together.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0097par0244	You face it, we face it. First, bring remorse, regret.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0098par0245	Mr. Baluken, I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0095par0246	Your speech was not appropriate for today.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0099par0247	Mr. President, due to the abuses that Mr. Hati has done, we have the right to an answer as a group as well as to accuse all HDP headscarves, headscarfs, headscarves, people with headscarfs.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0098par0248	Mr. Baluken, there is no such thing. I promise you two minutes on behalf of your group.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0100par0249	Yes, sir, how come there isn't one?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0099par0250	Yeah, how's that? Mr. President, how come he's not here?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0100par0251	Clearly, he made a statement about his headscarf.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0101par0252	Here, on behalf of your group, I promise not to pick on you for two minutes.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0099par0253	No, now, for two months...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0102par0254	Those who make a lot of noise in the AKP are definitely connected to it; it is understood.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0103par0255	He accused us of being directly involved.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0104par0256	There's no bullying like that, sir.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0105par0257	So when we looked at the headscarves that were in the polls as Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP)...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0104par0258	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0105par0259	When we looked at why there was such a thing, we saw the Fetullahists.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0106par0260	Please, he accused us.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0105par0261	That's a serious accusation.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0107par0262	Mr. Baluken, please, I promise you two minutes before I start picking on you, and that's all there is to it.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0106par0263	Look, he's declared the headscarfs.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0107par0264	There's no such thing, sir.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0106par0265	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Please, I want a promise.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0108par0266	Mr. President, you have to promise on behalf of the group, but Ms. Hüda has a say.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0107par0267	No, I'm not making any more promises, and I promise you for two minutes of teasing. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0108par0270	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0109par0271	When we once called them "Nurgenekon" and accused them, you would embrace them.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0110par0272	There's no need to make it dirty, it's obvious what your memory is saying.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0109par0273	You were living cheek to cheek.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0111par0274	Ms. Hüda...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0110par0275	It's obvious what the Hatibi said!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0109par0276	Ask your leader, cheek to cheek... you've slept with Å until yesterday.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0112par0277	They're from the regiment.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0113par0278	Congressmans, look, he's on the stand. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0114par0280	Can you start from the beginning, Mr. President?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0115par0281	Until yesterday, you were sleeping with him.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0114par0282	Look, for one thing, putting this headscarf, headscarf, a monopoly on a religious political party, or creating a political field over it, that's the worst thing to do for 79 million. You're not giving up on this. You do not have the right and authority to question once what is in the brains of women wearing headscarves, headscarfs, headscarves, and practices of women in CHP, MPP or HDP.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0116par0283	Pass that, pass that, say something else.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0114par0284	So you have to come out and apologize once in a while. Now, look, if you're going into this sort of thing... then your women's deputies, your group's deputy, will be wearing a headscarf when Fetullah Gulen comes up to you.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0117par0286	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0118par0287	Is that a lie?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0114par0288	Whose headscarf do you argue with when you've got that kind of nerve?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0119par0290	You negotiated, you negotiated as a HDP!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0118par0291	You're certainly a Fetullahist, since you're so loud.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0114par0292	You, look, about which party is so Fetullahist...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0119par0293	You're still talking.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0114par0294	For whom, Fetullah Gülen, take away the bodies and vote. He said, "You must go out and talk about them too, right?" There's nothing you've ever offered to the public about all of this. You're the political party that brings this structure to this day, supports it, enhances it, and creates a coup for them, period.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0120par0295	You're supportive today.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0114par0296	Ha, the Fetullahists have invaded the entire area of the MHP, within the CHP. The Minister of Justice says. If you have any information, come out and say it from this stand. You can either prove your claim or don't speak in such a vague manner, because your record is already on the table in that sense. On the other hand, I'd like you to look at your own party site about this extraordinary situation, is it unconstitutional or not? It's still on the AKP site. Look what Erdogan said about the state of emergency: the extraordinary state is to evacuate the settlements, to stop training because we're fighting terrorism, to tear down buildings, to seize basic needs, to the street... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I mean, you're the one who's already saying all this. You contradict yourself with everything.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0121par0300	It's not the same as it was then.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0122par0301	For God's sake!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0123par0302	And as for you, everything is different!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0124par0307	The first statement on behalf of individuals is from Bart's MP Yilmaz Bronzeç. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0125par0310	Can you explain which foundation your brother is head of, ma'am?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0126par0311	What are you talking about, brother?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0125par0312	Now, whose foundation was that?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0126par0313	What are you talking about, bro?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0125par0314	Wait a minute. Which foundation was his brother the president of? Wasn't that the foundation? Explain that to me.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0126par0316	What are you talking about? Look at you! Aren't you the one explaining on their channel?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0127par0317	Congressmans, I've invited the clerk to the stand, please. Here you go. You've had ten minutes...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0128par0320	Which foundation was your brother president of? Whose foundation was that? Was it or wasn't it? Can you explain that?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0129par0321	Well, since you're yelling, obviously, there's something.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0130par0322	You can't afford me. You're trying to hit me in the wrong place.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0128par0323	Tell me about your brother, your brother! The president of which foundation?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0130par0324	You're a showman, showman!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0131par0325	Don't shout!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0128par0326	Tell me which foundation your brother is head of.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0132par0327	It's always the ones who scream so loud.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0133par0328	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Council of Ministers for the extension of the state of emergency. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. It has been three months since the National Security Council's recommendation after the July 15 coup attempt, and then the Council of Ministers, which was announced by the President's presidency under Article 120, and approved by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on July 21st.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0134par0330	You work with money. You're a showman!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0135par0331	Tell me which foundation your brother is at!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0136par0332	Whoever shouts the most is the one most connected.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0137par0333	That's the usual suspect.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0138par0334	You guys don't talk at all.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0137par0335	You shut up, you! Your language is very long, your tongue is very long indeed.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0139par0336	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0140par0337	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0141par0338	Dear lawmakers, three months ago our country returned from the brink of disaster. Under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, if this nation hadn't fallen under the tanks, if it hadn't been for a shield in front of the guns, the coupgers would have taken over.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0139par0339	Mr. President, a lady is insulting her own congressman when she talks. Won't you shut him up? Won't you shut him up?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0140par0340	Mr. Ozkoç, sit down. Go ahead, Mr. Bronze. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look, let's please respect the court.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0142par0343	He's insulting me. There's nowhere he hasn't attacked. Won't you shut this lady up?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0140par0344	I'm telling you, I'm talking to everybody.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0142par0345	But first, tell him.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0140par0346	But sit down, sit down.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0142par0347	He's insulting everyone.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0140par0348	Please, Mr. Lawmakers. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0142par0350	Why don't you tell this lady first? He insults everyone, the AKP stands silent, this lady insults him. Shut him up!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0143par0351	What an insult, brother!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0140par0352	Mr. Bronze, you talk.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0144par0353	Mr. President, my time... can we restart the clock?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0140par0354	Everyone's paying their respects to the security guard.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0145par0355	Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0140par0356	You guys talk, go ahead.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0146par0357	Dear lawmakers, three months ago, if this nation had not laid down before the tanks under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, if it had not been for a shield in front of the guns, the coupters would have taken over. On the night of July 15th, if the traitors had reached their goal, we would not be able to speak of the State of Emergency which we have declared against the coupters here today, but we would groan under the tyranny of martial law against our people, and we would not be together today under this great roof. The coupgers would suspend the current legal order. They were going to eliminate natural courts, replace them with martial law courts. They would put the representatives of this democratically employed nation into prisons illegally, not in public decisions, but in so-called courts set up by couptarian terrorists, and even execute the children of this nation without trial.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0147par0358	What's being done now, what's being done now? You're making it worse.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0146par0359	Our beloved nation did not give these traitors an opportunity; it took possession of our independence, our flag; it took possession of democracy, the rule of law; and it caught the coupters red-handed; it struck them in the face with the rag of martial law that they wanted to declare, and declared the State of Emergency against traitors. The State of Emergency declared after July 15th is the name of making it easier for traitors to answer in front of the law. Under this roof that was damaged by the traitors' bombs, we gathered in the dust of the bombs, and we approved the State of Emergency. Now the three months of the State of Emergency have expired, but the reason and motive of the State of Emergency have not yet been eliminated. The motive just came up. The Council of Ministers' alibi is clear. Whatever the reasons have been announced three months ago, the grounds are now under way, and they are already being asked to extend in light of those grounds.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0148par0361	I thought it was supposed to take a month.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0146par0362	The battle of the judiciary continues. The liquidation of all the government's institutions is ongoing. Since the 1970s, it is evident that by infiltrating the state's ranks, it is impossible to investigate these members of the organization, who have been waiting for its sneaky time over the years, through the short period of three months, with legislation envisioned for normal times. During that time, significant measures were taken in the matters required by the state of emergency. As the legal basis for these measures, provisions have been issued under the law, and three of them are currently awaiting a meeting on the agenda of our Parliament.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0148par0363	What do the decrees have to do with you?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0146par0364	This is the first time we've faced this issue in the history of law enforcement, and this law is new. The constitutional lawyers have different views on this issue. In 30 days, some lawmakers argue that the provisions should be discussed during the period appointed by the Civil Code, which may be invalid when it is not discussed, but when we look at lawmakers in the majority, the laws of the law say that they will continue, even if they are not discussed within 30 days, because the Constitutional Court will not be able to prosecute the Constitution for violation of the Constitution. When we look at past practices, we see that the laws of the law continue to be implemented without discussion in parliament, and the decrees in the laws of the 1990s continue to be implemented. In fact, you all know that the House has changed the law in those ordinances, even though it has not been approved. The EC PARTY has disabled the public, which is legally controversial, and has referred the laws of the law to parliament to eliminate its perception. Last week, with the group's proposal, we wanted to bring KHK 667 on the agenda, but the MEClis is being shut down. The group proposals of opposition parties who wanted to create perception, unfortunately, were given, and we were unable to begin the negotiations of Judgement 667. The Clave is definitely involved. Turkey's Grand National Assembly has approved the State of Emergency; Turkey's Grand National Assembly has decided to extend its decision. Again, the EC PARTY group proposal for the agenda of law enforcement decrees in parliament is also clear. Dear MPs, the reason why the State of Emergency has been declared is because on July 15th, it is clear to ask account of those who have attempted a treacherous coup; to claim the trust of our 241 martyrs who have given their lives for the country and the flag; to bomb the parliament to destroy republic and democracy; to ask the account of the traitors who have been throwing death on their nation by planes and tanks; to remove the members of an organization who have been nesting for 40 years from all levels of the state. A perception management, which says that the parliament has been shut down while the struggle is being fought, is, unfortunately, a propaganda that works for the benefit of ▪. In every democratic country in the world, the state of law and human rights and freedoms are sought by extraordinary governance. Here's the closest example of France. France has been performing its extraordinary state for over a year. Here, there are criticisms of whether municipalities are appointed trustees. Let city vehicles carry bombs there, look what France is doing to that municipality, but we don't see city vehicles carrying bombs. Here we see no negative response from the EU, international institutions, or the French Parliament regarding France. In Turkey, everything is done within the law. The perception that Turkey has gone against the law on the international platform is intentional, valued MPs. Therefore, we should not be involved in their propaganda against our country. Do we want to eliminate the threat? Is there anyone in this House who can say no? There isn't. The MGK is still fighting on this issue, says it should be extended. The Council of Ministers heeds this advice and says there is need. We still have the reasons in his ads here, and if we approve of that, we need to decide to extend it in the same way now. The State of Emergency, whose duration, motive and scope are clear, has approved the State of Emergency, and is now being granted parliament's approval. On the contrary, it is clear that the Turkish Cypriot measures were not abducted from parliament, but were also drawn to the front of parliament's agenda by the EC PARTI group proposal. Today, the Parliament is open, and why should the State of Emergency be needed? Our nation has not forgotten that they used the vote, saying, "What is the need for the State of Emergency when the Parliament was on vacation three months ago?" So let's do what's in our country's best interest without twisting anything. If we carry out this struggle together, we will gain the appreciation of our nation. Otherwise, this nation will write down who has done what in critical times for this country, and history will never forgive what is right next to wrong. We have to succeed in this struggle, dear lawmakers. We have to do this for the future and future of our country, for the dark nights of July 15th, to make sure that this nation never lives again, to make sure that 241 martyrs, 2,195 citizens don't become veterans in one night for democracy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0149par0375	Mr. Bronze, let's get this over with. Today it's been so smooth, but, guys, we promise you ten minutes, 20 minutes, and we're gonna put it together for a minute? Today's the last time, but I won't give it to you again. Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0146par0377	I lost a minute in the noise.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0149par0378	Well, please put your words together for him.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0146par0379	We have to do this for our country's will and future, to save our country's future, and not leave our children in a country where they're threatened by a coup. In order to wipe out PKK, DAİŞ, and other terrorist organizations from the same location, we must continue to maintain the spirit formed after July 15th. Our nation expects us to be one and together on this. These ununited policies will not do any good to the owners or to our country. July 15th is the primary duty of us MPs who represent the national will to read the message of all the martyrs and veterans who gave their lives and blood for this country. In order to carry out this mission, the State of Emergency says that we will vote favourably for the Council of Ministers for another three months, which I hereby remember all our martyrs and veterans with mercy and gratitude and gratitude. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit03spe0150par0383	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0150par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 5th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're continuing negotiations on the Prime Minister's thesis. The government is here. It was the government's turn to speak. On behalf of the government, Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ will speak. Here you are, Mr. Bozdağ. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0151par0009	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I would like to present to you the opinion of our government regarding the decision of the Council of Ministers, which stipulates that the state of emergency should be extended for another three months. On this occasion, I salute you all. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the very beginning of my words, I would like to express my condolences on God's mercy to our fellow citizens and to their relatives, who were killed in the traitorous and treacherous attack of the semdinli terrorist group PKK on Sunday. Also, AK PARKI Hakkari MP Ahmet Budak, AK PARTI Van Özalp District Vice President Aydın Muştü and AK PARTI Dicle District Chairman Deryan Actert have been killed by PKK in a vicious and treacherous terrorist attack. May God have mercy on our martyrs, and my condolences to his relatives. On this occasion, once again, I would like to say that I strongly and hate to condemn the separatist terrorist organization, the PKK, the supporters of this terrorist organization, and the people who did these acts, the people who did them, the people who ordered them to do them. In Turkey, all political parties will be able to engage in political activities in 81 districts of our country, in all districts, in all cities. If the separatist terrorist organization says that the PKK and its subcontractors are not allowed to do politics in the region, they are deceived by it; they will narrow those mountains, those places to them, and the security forces of this nation and this nation will establish everyone's safety by the will of God, and everyone will continue to do politics there; especially the AK PARTI, without fear of anyone, without hesitation, will do politics to the end. The separatist terrorist organization needs to condemn and take a stand against politicians, civilians, children, women. In Şırnak, the perpetrator of all other acts of terror, ditchs, pits, and burned places is a separatist terrorist organization, and they support them. Of course, the fight against them will continue decisively, and those who do so in front of the law will pay. Mr. President, members of the organization within the Turkish Armed Forces under his approval plan, initiated by the founder and director of the Fetullahist terrorist organization, Fetullah Gulen. This failure, the failure of the coup attempt, the failure of our President, our Parliament, our government, our political parties, our media, civil society organisations and political parties, has been provided by the honorable struggle of 79 million of our citizens, who have taken possession of the government, parliament, its will, its law, and the Constitution. On this occasion, I would like to express our gratitude for the honor and mercy that I remember all the martyrs who lost their lives during the July 15 coup attempt. And once again, we express our gratitude and gratitude to our veterans. Respected MPs, the coup attempt failed, Turkey's agenda suddenly changed, but one of the things that we should all think about is what would have happened in Turkey? If the coup attempt had been successful, Turkey would have suffered many setbacks such as the division of Turkey, the change of the regime, the break-up of religion, the outbreak of a civil war that was uncertain when it would end, the deaths of tens of thousands of our people, the injuries, maybe refugee status, economic bankruptcy, and Turkey being taken back maybe a hundred years. Turkey and the Turkish nation have survived a major disaster, almost on the edge of the cliff, and returned on July 15, 2016. On that day, the Turkish nation and Turkey survived the division, survived the regime change, survived the destruction and reform of religion, as well as the instructions of their fathers who used it, and survived the indistinct internal conflicts -- which, as I said, thousands, tens of thousands of people died, injury, injury, refugee status, and many other evils -- in the tail of the Sivas Congress, he escaped economic bankruptcy. From these great dangers and threats, he has survived the death of our beloved nation, Parliament, all of us together. Therefore, we must remember the coup attempt on July 15, 2016, and we must not let this coup attempt be forgotten or forgotten. After July 15, 2016, nothing will ever be the same, nor will it ever be. As if nothing had happened, no one can move on from now on. Of course, after this great disaster, we all have things to do. One of them is that July 15th is not forgotten. On September 28, 2016, under the recommendation of the National Security Council, our government has decided to declare July 15, 2016 as the Day of Democracy and Freedoms and to take a vacation and to sign a legal proposal. I believe that the union held here on the night of July 15th may also be held during the legislature of this bill. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been declared by the Council of Ministers on July 20, 2016, July 21, 2016, 01. It has been declared for three months, effective from 00. At that time, we expressed that these three months would be enough, and that perhaps when the three months have reached its goal without complete use, the extraordinary state can be removed. However, the need to extend another three months at the coming point has arisen because due to the structure of the security threat and the structure of the problem we face, its complexity and its understanding of work, the liquidation of this structure is undisputed that there is a need for a new time for the state to be removed from being a threat and a threat to our national security, and without the pressure of time, the steps are needed to be taken in order to be more healthy, more accurate. There is also a need for swift decision-making and effective implementation of decisions and measures aimed at protecting the principles of our democracy, the principles of the legal state, the rights and freedoms of our citizens, to ensure continuity. This is also needed in Turkey to ensure the transformation of a change that will never attempt a coup again, as well as the continuation of the peace and security environment across the country and the completion of the initial work. For this reason, the National Security Council has made a recommendation, and according to this recommendation, our government has referred the thesis on the extension of the State of Emergency for three more months under the principle of October 3, 2016. If our House approves, it will continue to be implemented in our country for another three months. It's needed. Why? Because in order to fight terrorism effectively and decisively, we need to make decisions very quickly, effectively and quickly. When you look at the working procedures of the General Assembly, according to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it is also necessary to prevent damage that could be caused by the risks, such as the time of the most urgent decisions needed in this process, such as not being implemented. In the meantime, the KHK will also be discussed and legalized at the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The state of emergency, respected lawmakers, has been declared to the state and not to the people; we have already stated it. The goal is to ensure that our government works quickly, decisively and effectively to get our country out of the state of emergency. The state of emergency has not led to any extraordinaryness in our citizen's everyday life. Life has continued in its routine. There are no restrictions or restrictions on basic rights and freedoms. Some changes have been made only as long as it is limited and relevant to the purpose of the state of emergency. Life will continue in its usual course, and there will be no negativity unless it's about the state of emergency. Apart from what the state of emergency requires, there is no further decision-making and implementation of decisions, as was the case before. It will be used in the same way as the Fetullahist terrorist organisation, the separatist terrorist group, the PKK and other terrorist organisations have been used to fight quickly, effectively and decisively so far. It will be used to make effective and fast decisions, just as it was used to act effectively and quickly. Nowhere in Turkey have our citizens been subjected to the practices of the state of emergency. There have been some isolated incidents in just a few places, and our government has taken the necessary precautions. A speech by our President at the 27th Mukhtars' Assembly has been distorted in a different way by a speaker here, and I'd like to point out to him. In his speech, Mr. President emphasises on what could have been done in the past phase of the State of Emergency or within the framework of the State of Emergency Law, and says that none of this is happening. It doesn't say, "We're ruined." It doesn't say, "We're going to destroy." It doesn't say, "We're going to destroy." We've declared a curfew. Have mercy, have mercy! What's he saying? It was made clear from the very first day that these practices would be limited only to the fight against terrorist organisations and would have no negative impact on everyday life. Because when we arrived 14 or 15 years ago, there was an extraordinary state in this country. But in extraordinary circumstances, in certain parts of our country, you couldn't even make it to the streets in the southeast at certain hours. Is that a thing now? No. You can go out in the open, and you can shop. Strike, boycott, that's what it was. Is there such a thing? No. So in everyday life, on the contrary, there is relief, ease, security.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0152par0024	Mr. Secretary, are you reading from the transcripts?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0151par0025	We've ruined it, burned it, we won't put it out on the street. Is there such a thing?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0153par0026	I do.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0151par0027	Oh, my God! It's not proper for people to look a lie in the eyes of the nation's representatives, to falsify the written texts, to speak a lie on the stand. Respected MPs, we need to look at what was done during the state of emergency in Turkey. Turkey has experienced many coups so far: 1960 coup, 1980 coup; 1971 monument, 1997 February 28th memorial. Each blow has been the day the countdown began, and each token has been a start date for the countdown of the new manuscript to the new coup. A monument, a coup or a blow behind it, was a tradition of our Turkish shame. The presidents, ministers, prime ministers, TBM, parties, media and people did not prefer the way to resist coupters and contractors, and even under the roof of this glorious Assembly on March 12, 1971, they were read in both the Republic Senate and the National Assembly, and they were able to bend their heads and listen to it. Hamdolsun, on July 15th, there was a struggle under the bombs with the CHP, the MP, the AK PARTY, the Parliamentary Court. For him, there are firsts in Turkey. People went out on the street, for the first time, Congress did it, and this is the first time. But there are other beginnings behind it, what is that? Again, for the first time, the actions that everyone has said to not repeat coup attempts in Turkey, but has not taken so far, have been taken by our government in accordance with the State of Emergency, doing a major democratisation reform. If you say what they are, I want to share some of them. So you followed it closely, and the General Staff of the gendarmes and the Coast Guard Command are all connected to the Ministry of Interior. A power distribution has been made, the balance has been differentiated, given 100 per cent of civilian administration undisputed. Military hospitals are connected to the GATA Health Department. Military schools and military schools have been shut down as they are, and the only way to prevent high school graduates from going to military schools is because they've been brainwashed and raised with a traumatic understanding at a young age. After that, it's not easy to doctor a high school graduate, it won't be easy to impress him. The structure of the age has changed, the power of civil will has been increased in promotions, and the accession of force commanders to the National Ministry of Defence, the structure of the National Ministry of Defence, and the direct instruction of the President, the Prime Minister and the Minister of State of Defence, and the direct implementation of these instructions without any approval has been opened. The President of Turkey is the commander-in-chief of the army, but according to our laws, he has no authority to give instructions. Does a commander-in-chief have no army? Something like that.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0154par0033	Honey, put the uniform on then. Put him in uniform, then.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0151par0034	I mean, Turkey was facing this kind of nonsense and weirdness. Now, the minister of national defense couldn't give instructions either. On the day of the coup attempt, our prime minister gives instructions to the commander in Eskişehir, who does not follow the instructions, and the written order awaits this. So the Prime Minister's giving orders, and the other one's not doing it. Historical steps have been taken to eliminate all this negativity. Again, what are they doing next to Ankara, tanks, armoured troops, and these? They're supposed to be borderline against the enemy. In İstanbul, Hakeza was sent to the addresses that needed to be found. The House was sought for shelter that day, and there is no force to defend the House against the planes that came to the House that day. Now Turkey's Grand National Assembly, the presidency, the Prime Minister's office, all the state's units are equipped against fighter planes.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0155par0037	You couldn't clean it in three months, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0151par0038	When a man comes, he will see his reward in this nation's House, and the House will have all the power and protection that the nation has given him. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) None of this has ever happened, and we haven't done it in our time.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0155par0039	Mr. Secretary, why couldn't you clean it up in three months, and you couldn't afford it? Why couldn't you clean it up in three months?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0151par0040	We've done a lot of reforms, but no one will be able to do them any more easily, the coup attempt. For the first time, the AK PARTY governments have taken steps to prevent a repeat of the coup attempt, and we will take these steps from now on.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0155par0041	Why couldn't you do it in three months? Why couldn't you do it in three months?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0151par0042	These steps are major democratisation reforms, structural changes, very important. We've done things that should be applauded standing up. This needs to be seen, appreciated by everyone. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0156par0044	Political foot, Mr. Secretary, where's the political foot? No political foot, political foot.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0151par0045	All the feet will come out, don't worry.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0157par0046	Go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0158par0047	Where are they, where are they, the ByLockers?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0151par0048	All the feet will come out, everyone will see that.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0158par0049	Where are the ByLockers, the ByLockers?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0159par0050	It was over in a month, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0151par0051	Another thing I'm saying, Mr. President, is that to fight the Fetullahist terrorist organization, if you are members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, political parties, you said that yesterday, you took that picture right there. I'm doing this today, you're doing this. This fight can't be successful.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0160par0052	What's it gonna be?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0161par0053	What's it gonna be? Well, aren't we going to say that you've caused us trouble?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0162par0055	Mr. Secretary, complete in one minute.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0163par0056	But let's all stand together on this terror threat against Turkey, where we'll be competing over who stands where we stand yesterday, and let's do our part.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0161par0057	So we're not just gonna say it or just ignore it? You've caused trouble in this country!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0163par0058	But you take the promise ten years ago, you bring the one 20 years ago, you bring the one five years ago. Yo, ten years ago... there was an AK PARTY in the 1970s? There were these. Was there an AK PARTY in the 1980s? There were these.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0161par0059	You've been here 15 years! Shame on you!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0163par0060	WAS THERE AN AK PARTY in the 1990s? There were these. We were born in 2001, in 2001.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0164par0062	What's that got to do with anything? They settled in the government in your time.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0165par0063	Political foot, political... Mr. Secretary, what about his political foot?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0166par0064	You've always been there, Mr. Secretary. You've always been there.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0167par0065	Generals now, these, these are the talks. Yahu, the authority to make decisions in the age of the year is voted by the Prime Minister, and all the others are voted by the other. Everyone's talking, so I'm saying, if we blame each other, then we'll find a lot.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0166par0066	What does your education have to do with terrorism, Mr. Secretary? WHAT does education have to do with you?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0167par0067	What we're going to do is stop blaming each other and help each other with what we need to do, stick together...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0166par0068	Mr. Secretary, what does education have to do with you? Why did you relieve so many men?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0167par0069	...to prevent this threat and threat from threatening our future and our future in Turkey. I salute you all. Good luck with that.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0168par0072	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0169par0073	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0170par0074	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0168par0075	Please...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0171par0076	Mr. Secretary, we've come very prepared, very prepared.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0172par0077	Mr. Secretary, what does education have to do with you? Why did you relieve all those people?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0173par0078	15,000 teachers have been relieved of duty.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0172par0079	What does signatory academics have to do with ▪?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0174par0080	HOW many members have been taken, and how many have been taken?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0172par0081	I'm talking about you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0175par0082	Mr. Bozdağ, please...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0174par0083	How many people are there, how many members are there? He has tens of thousands of members.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0175par0084	Mr. Bozdağ...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0176par0085	You've already exported tens of thousands.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0177par0086	WHAT does your education have to do with the coup?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0178par0087	You make it sound like one was taken, all taken. It's from MEMUR-SEN, it's from KAMU-SEN, it's from YOU, it's from all of them. Are they all taken?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0179par0088	What about the political foot, political foot?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0177par0089	It's not written in reason, it's used.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0179par0090	You're talking from your stomach!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0180par0091	Congressmans, please... I'm going to listen to the members of the group. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0181par0093	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has expressed that we have distorted the President's speech and lied to the public.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0180par0094	Here you go. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0181par0096	Coral Danış Beştaş will speak on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0180par0097	Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0182par0098	Read the text under your fingernails, tell me what speech? Read it and then I'll see.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0181par0099	Yeah, yeah, we got a speech.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0180par0100	I'll give you two minutes because of the bullying. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0181par0102	We've got it all here, 2014 speech; I'll get you a printout. They brought you a different conversation.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0180par0103	Congressmans, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0183par0107	Mr. President, we have not corrupted the President's speech to the Prime Minister of the period...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0184par0108	You can't relax without cursing the President.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0185par0109	We do not swear, neither curse; but we criticize, and it is you who curse.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0184par0110	You've been swearing all morning.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0186par0111	I read the same thing: go out and declare the State of Emergency, give up the opening, early elections. For God's sake, I'm asking, is this the time to talk about 73 million hearts aching? The terrorist organisation, the State of Emergency, is doing bloody acts so that Turkey can be the country of the 1990s again, and someone from Ankara is oiling it. The State of Emergency is to evacuate the settlements -- now being evacuated -- to stop training because the fight against terrorism requires this -- there is no education in Şırnak and Nusaybin at the moment -- to tear down buildings because of danger. That's my line. Repossessing basic needs. We can't send tents to the Şırnakans now, because they're being confiscated; the refrigerators are being sent back. The State of Emergency was declared in 1987...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0184par0113	Who puts the hand, who puts the hand? The PKK is a terrorist organization, a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0187par0114	You put it in, you don't, you don't.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0186par0115	You put it in, the government puts it in. It went on until we lifted it. In what wound did he become a salve?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0188par0117	You block them all, you put them on the street. How dare you twist it!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0189par0118	What does the tent or the PKK have to do with us? The governor's office won't let me.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0188par0119	Whose word is that? Who says that?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0190par0120	▪ What problem did he solve, and there is an original talk. Yes, Mr. Minister of Justice says today: "What is the State of Emergency doing? What does the State of Emergency have to do with bringing out 12,285 members from the State of Emergency?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0188par0122	They are representatives of the Fetullah terrorist organization, who have been suspended from the organisation's membership on the grounds that they are propaganda for the terrorist organization.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0191par0123	Is that what they are, for God's sake? You're acting like a curser.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0190par0124	What does Zarok have to do with shutting down the TV, Jian TV, Free Day TV, Balance TV, Van TV? Right now, we've got 60 co-chairs in the county today, what does the state have to do with the State of Emergency? The State of Emergency is a method that the AKP has politically resorted to to suppress itself. Let's take the date of the crime to 2002. You can't determine the date of the crime. If it is a terrorist organization, the crime date begins in 2002.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0192par0126	It's an MGK decision.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0190par0127	What you've done together, come, let the judicial authorities investigate all of this together, and we'll see about that. Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0193par0130	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0194par0131	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0193par0132	Sir, I also referred to a speech by the President during my speech. Mr. Bozdağ, I think...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0195par0133	I didn't answer you in any way.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0193par0134	But...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0195par0135	No, no, I didn't say anything.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0196par0136	Mr. Gök, Mr. Baluken expressed something about that speech text, he said it was contrary to the truth, Mr. Bozdağ...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0193par0137	I mean, in reference to that speech...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0196par0138	But he didn't say anything about your conversation.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0193par0139	Well, then, for the record, Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement for the record on two matters.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0196par0140	Let's give you our word for a minute, I can't do it without picking on you. Here you go, Mr. Sky, just a minute.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0193par0144	Mr. President, there's a discrepancy in the Minister's statements and he has a confession about the issues we'd like to carry out. In his speech, Mr. Minister, we have prevented the threat of a coup with reforms, which will never happen again. When he says, "In fact, there is no reason for the extension of the state of emergency." I mean, if they're convinced there'll be no more coup attempt with these actions, they shouldn't be saying those words. But one of the other contradictions is that, in the Minister's speech, we've connected this to the Ministry of National Defence, we've connected the gendarmes and the Coast Guard here. There's another reality behind what he says, which is that all of these are matters that should be regulated by law, and that authority belongs to the Assembly, which cannot be carried out by the State of Emergency Law, which we've already taken to the Constitutional Court. I mean, the House has the authority to... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me make it a little bit more clear.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0197par0148	Please complete, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0193par0149	The Parliament's mandate to make the law, which is held by parliament, is to declare an extraordinary state of state, and to be put under executive decrees under the rule of law, is to be shut down by parliament. We're being extremely sensitive about this. I hope, and I hope, that all of the issues that should be held by the law in other decrees, as we will begin tomorrow, are discussed in Parliament, and a decision will be made. These things come out very quickly that sometimes he's mistaken. For example, he gave an example of the GATA, Mr. Secretary, but it was later expressed that some corrections were made regarding the GATA. Unfortunately, the bill for wrong and hasty decisions is expensive to Turkey. That's what I wanted to say.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0198par0152	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0199par0153	Mr. President, may I make a statement from my position?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0198par0154	Mr. Bozdağ, please, I promise you from your position.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0199par0156	Mr. President, good lawmakers, every state has the right to seek loyalty to the state in the person it employs in public, and if it doubts its loyalty, it has the right not to work with it.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0200par0157	You didn't call, you didn't call.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0199par0158	No state can hold on to him if he finds someone he doubts his loyalty to or finds out later.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0201par0159	Are you looking for loyalty to the people or to the AKP?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0199par0160	This is also accepted by all international circles. As a matter of fact, when Federal Germany -- West -- merged with East Germany, it saved up to 500,000 people. What did all the countries that gained independence from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics do in that sense? They passed the purging laws, and they made arrangements.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0202par0161	With the law, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0199par0162	Now, look, I'm going to give you a concrete example. You're a state, they put a wire in your Chief of Staff's office every day, they take it out in the evening, they give it to someone, and that one leads to certain places, the ultimate address is Pennsylvania. Now, you're doing security studies in many parts of your country, your Chief of Staff is talking, our weak points are here, our strong points are here, this is the situation of the other side, this is what we're going to stretch out or throw out, and you're talking a lot of things, and you're talking very freely in a safe environment. If any country, the Turkish Chief of Staff, spends all their wealth trying to figure out what he's talking about all day, what he's doing, what he's doing, what he's doing, can he get a citizen in there? He can't. But, as you can see now, there is such a thing...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0203par0163	You did!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0204par0164	You put him in there! You did, you did!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0199par0165	We didn't.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0205par0166	Mr. Bozdağ, let's complete.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0199par0167	Look, it's a situation. So we let those who committed this betrayal sell all the secrets of the Turkish army, all the secrets of the Turkish state to the scoundrels who were slaves to them?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0205par0168	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0206par0169	They'll go, they'll go, they'll go, they'll go.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0207par0170	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0205par0171	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0207par0172	I demand word in accordance with the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0205par0173	Here you go, Mr. Bauken, and I promise you one minute.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0207par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary has defined these public-owned liquidation operations and the State-of-the-art practices through the criteria of loyalty to the state. I would like to remind the entire General Assembly what is the standard of loyalty to the state of the Minister and AKP. Look, Bozdağ speaks on the bench at the Parliamentary Assembly: "Fetullah Gulen is a valuable asset to this country. You love him, you don't love him, but he's a valuable man, a wise man. He serves to bring up generations of national and spiritual values in this country. It's all clear, under government supervision, open. It starts with the obvious, and why do you call this structure a gang? Now, it's open to the control of the state. What you call loyalty has bombed this House, Mr. Secretary. Your criteria are... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0208par0180	Give me an answer.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0209par0181	Congressmans, we need to finish this discussion. Please, finish it, finish it.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0210par0183	I'm picking it up, but you gave it to everyone, so I'm packing it up.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0209par0184	Complete.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0211par0185	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0212par0186	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary wants a word.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0213par0187	Mr. President, it's going well, it's going well, let's move on.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0214par0188	Come in, Mr. Bauken, complete.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0215par0189	So, while AKP officials have established a definition of loyalty to the state, let him explain why the National Security Council, which they've ordered and carried out in 2004, did not carry out its decision on the Fetullahist organisation, and then enter into the issue of loyalty to this state.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0216par0191	Do we have a sentence after betrayal, a sentence? Don't bring before betrayal, is there a positive sentence after betrayal?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0217par0192	Betrayal? Betrayed who?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0215par0193	The words of the National Security Council that the Fetullahist organization must be removed from the state are very clear. We say the National Security Council is a coup d'état, and we say those decisions shouldn't be dictated here, but because they have a different attitude...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0218par0194	Mr. Baluken, thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0215par0195	As a government decision, they'll explain why they didn't make that decision.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0218par0196	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0219par0197	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0218par0198	Mr. Bozdağ, I'll give you time.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0220par0199	You've become such a statesman.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0221par0200	We've never been government, don't worry. We're socialists, we're communityists, we're publicists.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0222par0202	Mr. President, a speech I made in Parliament when I was Deputy Director of the Group has been constantly expressed by valued lawmakers. I had that conversation at the time, and I believed in it, and I did it at that time.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0223par0203	Then, resign.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0222par0204	Excuse me for a moment. I'm doing what I'm doing now, believing in what I'm saying. Because at that time, I had no idea that the Fetullahist terrorist organization had such a terrorist organization, a criminal network, a network of traitors.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0224par0207	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0225par0208	Now? Were you tricked?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0222par0209	But, right now, look, I'm being very clear.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0226par0210	Kamer Young has spoken to you, and apologize to Kamer Young.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0222par0211	I've seen when the fetullahist terrorist organization has a terrorist organization, when it's a criminal organization, when it's a betrayal ring, and then... I'm very clear, I spoke like this yesterday, not today. But they're always broadcasting like I had a conversation here in 2010 or 2011, like I did yesterday. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Look, I'm telling you very clearly: I've been backstage and speaking recently, Mr. Kilicdaroglu said to you a lot. He said, "Mr. President, you told him right up to December 17th, we told him another story, and now you're telling him."
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0227par0215	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0222par0216	Look, I'm very clear: look, there's an ugly, big, dirty criminal organization, a terrorist organization that appeared yesterday instead of competing with the words that happened the other day, and you said that yesterday, and I said that. No one can clear this organization, and we need to fight it together. Is that even possible? Is that a thing?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0228par0219	Well, your municipalities copied this man's books, printed his books, what do you say?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0229par0220	You're exonerating yourself, not the organization. Damn the organization! God damn that organization!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0222par0221	And Turkey will fight this terrorist organization to the end. No word in the past changes his status as a terrorist organization. That's not gonna happen. You're being immoral! It's a shame!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0230par0223	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0229par0224	You can't justify yourself, you can't justify yourself.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0230par0225	Thank you, Mr. Bozdağ.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0231par0226	Mr. Secretary, it would be appropriate to resign, resign.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0232par0227	If there's such a thing as quitting!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0233par0228	Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0234par0229	Congressmans, please, let's be patient, let's hear it, let's hear it, let's hear it, let's talk about it. Mr. Sky, please, we're closing the discussion, and I promise you one last minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0235par0233	Mr. President, I'm the NSA...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0236par0234	You're still serving, taking the tapes and talking there.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0235par0235	I wanted to show you your decision, Mr. General Board. In 2004, the National Security Council of this country -- Mr. Minister at work recently asked for this. It was then laid down, and it was expressed by the Deputy Prime Minister of the AKP.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0237par0237	I thought you didn't know!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0238par0238	Well, now that you're a lawyer, the organization's out there, you're talking.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0235par0239	At the time, the Republican People's Party, see in 2005, first, the Fetullah Gulen schools and the Fetullah Gulen Community are doing research on the issue and making a motion to investigate the threat to Turkey's secularism and to be rejected by AKP votes. Now, look where we're coming from. Of course, I care about this: We're a party that's identified and determined to fight this issue, but the ruling party is in no position to operate on any party without confronting it. The AKP must first face itself. We're not... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're ready to make the confrontation. The question is: is the AKP, Mr. Secretary, all the other MPs and the government ready to make this confrontation? That's the question.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0239par0243	Thank you.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0240par0244	We're cleaning up.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0241par0245	Yeah, we did it, we did it, and we keep doing it.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0242par0247	Where did you do it?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0243par0248	What have you done! If you did, you wouldn't be sitting there.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0242par0249	Have you explained how many ByLock ministers there are?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0244par0250	You're the lawyer for December 17th, 25th, and we put up a fight.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0242par0251	Don't shout! Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0245par0255	Members of parliament, the last speaker on the Prime Minister's thesis, in the name of the individuals, Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can. Mr. Can, come in.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0246par0258	You made me watch the tapes on the General Assembly in the name of Fetullah.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0247par0259	For God's sake!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0248par0260	If you had faced it, you wouldn't have sat there.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0249par0261	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look, I've called the clerk to the stand.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0248par0262	Tell the Minister first, Mr. President, he's giving us a hard time.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0250par0263	We did it, we did it on March 30th, we did it in 2014, we did it on June 7th, we did it on November 1st; we do it in every position. Don't make him talk!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0249par0264	Mr. Secretary... Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0251par0266	Tell the Minister, Mr. President, tell the Minister first.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0249par0267	Here you go.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0252par0268	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, dear friends...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0253par0270	The Minister is going to talk. Are we going to shut up here?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0254par0271	If you're gonna shut up, I'm sorry, I'm telling everyone, and I'm telling the Minister.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0255par0272	You're still taking the incoming records and using them.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0253par0273	Where did you face it, he says? No way!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0255par0274	Leave him alone! They put it in your hands, you talk.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0253par0275	It's a shame, Mr. Secretary, don't push our intelligence!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0256par0276	In particular, there has been talk of the isolation of the Assembly concerning the extension of the State of Emergency concerning this Prime Ministerial thesis. That's not the right expression. That is: the Constitution is 120 open, the Constitution is 120, the issue of the spread of violence and the serious corruption of public order. Here, the National Security Council gathers as a consultation and makes a recommendation. This recommendation comes to the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers -- you know, it's unanimous -- can make a unanimous decision based on Article 120, and decide the state of emergency, and prolong the deadline. As a result, the arrangement for extraordinary situations is also organised by Article 121. If necessary conditions continue, the Council of Ministers will appreciate that. The Council of Ministers is meeting in the presidency of the President. This decision will come to Parliament today, it will be voted here today, and it will face national will. If the national will puts a different picture in here, it'll mean nothing. Therefore, it is not right to isolate the nation and the nation's Parliament from here. Dear friends, I was here that night. And I especially want to thank the friends who are here, the people who are out there, and the friends who are out there. When we came here that day -- Mr. Minister Bekir Bozdağ, we came with him -- the atmosphere was really tense, the bombs were going off outside, the planes were flying at close range, the big noise, the bombings were going on everywhere. In such an environment, we came to the House and the House was open. Mr. Speaker, we especially thank the Republican People's Party members, the members of the National Movement Party, the members of the group, and the members of the EC PARTY group, and our friends from HDP. It was very important that the House be open. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) It means the House is open... yes, we challenge you, we challenge you, we challenge your bombs, your planes, our national will. I've seen it here, and the group's vice presidents have given a speech that's going to go down in history. Both Mr. Levent Bey and Mr. Erkan, members of the EC PARTY group, and our ministers have fallen down in history. Please, let's not lose this painting, this atmosphere, folks. This coup attempt, this vile terrorist attack was committed on this House. Sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally. Yes, it was a coup attempt against the will of the nation, towards democracy. Together, in the face of this coup attempt, we have kept our unity together. Friends, the antidote to terrorism is national unity and unity. As long as we maintain our unity and unity, neither the PKK nor the DHKP-C or the derivatives will be challenged. Indeed, in this time of unity and unity, we will all throw away these biles together.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0257par0280	National unity and unity?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0256par0281	Guys, it's not easy to throw away these biles, it's a sneaky structure, it's a low structure, it's hidden itself. Sir, you've been together, we've been together... Friends, this has deceived the political institution, it's deceived our nation, but...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0257par0283	Yeah, who did he cheat on? No one's cheating on us, they're cheating on you. Why did he cheat on us?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0256par0284	I mean, we're all gonna have to do a little self-criticism here. Thanks to this self-criticism, we can all stand together, not by blaming each other, but by maintaining our total unity and unity, by defending the independence and unbreakable integrity of the state, by standing together in a firm manner against those who mean our unity and unity. I just told you, the antidote to terrorism is the decisive stance of the nation. Praise be to God, that spirit in the Catacombs, the leaders of all political parties...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0258par0286	Not all political parties, no HDP.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0256par0287	...our chief of staff, our Prime Minister, our President, our five million saints, and the 79 million who applauded that painting, we are all here because of this decisive stance. Friends, God forbid, if the coup attempt had been a success, my brother Yilmaz Bronzeç just told me, would we be able to sit here, defend these things, would we be able to talk about them?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0259par0289	You'd be fine, but they'd take us out in bulk.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0256par0290	Yes, we've given 241 martyrs to the nation and its patron saintly representatives, who claim democracy in the first place. Dear friends, if we don't want to make the bones of these 241 martyrs, if we want to be with these martyrs, if we want to be with the relatives of our martyrs, if we can represent them when we see them, we must stand united and united against these rogue organizations. If we cannot do so, We cannot make their rights lawful to them.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0260par0291	Bravo Ramadan, good for you, good for you!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0256par0292	Together with our President and Mr. Prime Minister's determined will and the leaders of the main opposition party and other opposition parties, our beloved nation has set out on a great path.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0261par0293	We're talking about a state of emergency!
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0256par0294	This is the way of democracy; this is the way of law. If it weren't for the state of emergency, how would we be able to cure these problems? We had to apply for both time and location. One, in terms of time; two, these can be done in terms of the ground. By the powers that you have given us, we will win that time with the State of Emergency, we will win it with the State of Emergency, and the ground will continue with unity and unity. In these feelings, I ask for God's mercy to send my condolences to our martyrs, to our veterans, and to all our friends in this painting, to express my condolences: I know and I hope that our beloved nation and its representatives will use this thesis with respect to the national will, if they are using it, we have no respect for them. But, come, let's continue with this painting, this August 7th Beatdown spirit, and I say we all continue to break the back of terror together, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0262par0297	Thank you, Mr. Can. Congressmans, this concludes the negotiations. I now submit the Prime Minister's thesis to your votes: Those who don't agree... Appointment accepted. Good luck.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0263par0301	Mr. President, in order for the record to go down, I mean the MHP has never been deceived as a political institution.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0262par0302	Now there is a direct motion to be brought up in accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and processed and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/285) I demand that my original Law Proposal be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda according to Article 37 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. As the bidder, Mr. Godkulu. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0264par0312	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in fact, I'd like to have friends from the Justice and Development Party listen. It's about the camisoles, and it's Ashure Day. So I expect you to listen and make a choice, if you must know the truth. First of all, on the occasion of the anniversary of Kerbela's mourning, I agree and share this pain with all the citizens of the Flame who are still living it.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0265par0314	Alevi and Sunni, all together.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0264par0315	I agree with the suffering of all our citizens, dear friends. Of course, today is the 10th day of Ashureh, the month of battle, but our citizens of Alevi are celebrating today in their unregistered camisoles. This shame is the disgrace of Parliament, which is the shame of the Justice and Development Party, which has ruled for 14 years. So, this shame...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0266par0317	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0267par0318	There's no General Assembly in this environment. I mean, this coven had a reputation, you took it out by hand.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0268par0319	Congressmans, I beg you, please take our seats. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0266par0320	Mr. President, this isn't a proper painting, is it?
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0269par0321	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0268par0322	Congressman... Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0270par0323	But we'll get up then.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0268par0324	Look, the speaker is on the stand... please, later...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0271par0325	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0268par0326	Mr. Secretary, Congressman, please, I beg you.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0271par0327	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0268par0328	Minister, you can leave, we've gone to the Civil Code 37, and it's over.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0272par0329	No, I'm also going to address the Minister... he'd better listen.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0268par0330	Oh, yeah? But, Mr. Lawmakers, please... your deputy won't leave.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0272par0331	Sir, today is the 10th day of the tribe, the month of battle, and our citizens with the faith of Alevi are fasting and mourning in a place where there is no status today. It is a disgrace to this Parliament that the Cemevs are not a place of worship, but especially to the Justice and Development Party. Therefore, we can lift this shame here today.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0273par0332	We keep mourning together at all dorms and mosques.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0272par0333	Dear friends, look, the 64th Government Program. The 64th Government Programme states that we will give legal status to the centers of traditional wisdom and its houses. This is the 65th Government Program: the capitals have flown out of here, so the government's current programme does not include the ecclesiastical institutions. If he didn't fall on his way to the printing press, that's a very important political choice, and that's a choice against our Alevi citizens. Dear friends, for the record. Izzettin Doğan and others of the European Court of Human Rights issued on April 26, 2016; Alevi citizens have applied for a decision there due to their decrees, dear friends. Look, since we didn't decide here, because we didn't decide for the equality of our Alevi citizens, because we didn't decide for equal citizenship, the Court of Human Rights of Europe condemned Turkey by this eighty-three-page decision, which is a very heavy sentence. According to the court, the approach of public authorities to Alevi society is incompatible with the neutrality and neutrality of the state. On the other hand, the European Court of Human Rights says: "The possibility of making a service is uncertain, and it is in the best interest of the central or local authorities. These communities do not receive donations from members or government funds. Now, here, look, this concerns the majority of the Justice and Development Party. You have your word to our Alevi citizens, and you have been in power for 14 years, and you have not fulfilled this promise, and our citizens of Alevi are trying to fulfill their worship in the mosques where they have no status, their own resources, and they face great obstacles. Therefore, the shame belongs to lawmakers from the Justice and Development Party. If you are not taking a stand here under the European Court of Human Rights, it is also a disgrace to the government, and it is a disgrace to Parliament. Dear friends, let's raise this shame here today. If they come backstage, our friends, we can take a step forward here today on equal citizenship, but you know the situation. I want all our Alevi citizens and all our citizens to see these ranks of the Justice and Development Party. When it came to Alevi citizens, all the MPs went out. Therefore, that attitude does not suit Parliament because it is on the agenda... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...what to discuss, dear friends, what to discuss. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0274par0341	Not only are the camisoles, but mosques are the gates of the people.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0272par0342	A lot of words could have been thrown out, so you can answer.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0275par0343	Thank you. According to the Civil Charter, under the name of a member of parliament, Balıkesir MP Mehmet Alli. Here you go, Mr. All.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0276par0347	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. As you know, it's the month of the war, today is the day of the ashram. First of all, I remember all Kerbela's martyrs from here once again with respect, especially Lord Hussein, who resists persecution, who doesn't swear to the tyrant, and who pays dearly for it with their lives. I sincerely share in the mourning of our citizens, who have accepted the tribe as mourning, and wish that their meetings be accepted in the truth. Dear MPs, the Alevis who have lived in this land for centuries have never taught their children hatred and hatred, despite all the persecution and oppression they have seen, and the Alevis have always put knowledge and wisdom ahead of them. Though they have always been persecuted throughout history, they have never pledged allegiance to the wrongdoers. I'm afraid we all live together to see what a sense of Biat has cost the country. In the 14-year period of AKP power, seven Alevi workshops were made, but not a barley-size journey was made in the coming place, because AKP is never sincere about the Alekis, as it is now. Dear lawmakers, the way to solve a problem begins with accepting its existence first. AKP cannot accept the Alevi's existence, so it wants to put Alevis in its preordained patterns, which is never acceptable. Yeah, I mean, how am I supposed to talk to people who ignore the Flames? Yeah, I'm protesting here, guys.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0277par0354	Yes, talks have been completed on the motion given according to the Civil Charter 37.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0278par0357	We want enough numbers for the meeting.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit04spe0277par0358	Before you submit the motion to your votes, there's a demand for a sufficient number of meetings, and we'll see it first. All right, guys, we're picking up names right now. Mr. Gök, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Division, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Akar, Mr. Kayn, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Özdish, Mr. Tankulu, Mr. Man, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Responsor, Mr. Öz. Yeah, 20's all right. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2016-10-11sit05spe0277par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 5th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. In accordance with Article 37 of the Interior Charter, İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu's motion was not enough for the roll call before the vote was passed. Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you a minute to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Members of parliament, since the second round of roll call was not enough, it is now 14 o'clock Wednesday (October 12th 2016) to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of verbal question motions and legislation and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00. I wish you a good evening.
