ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.1.0	Good morning. Let's resume the session... [[Ask the Government about the lines of action for the transformation of the economic model in the long term]] [[300-00021/13]] ... on the one hand of the order of the day, which is the inquiry to the Government on the lines of action for the long term transformation of the economic model. It is an inquiry presented by the Parliamentary Group of Common We can. And to make the presentation, Mr. Joan Carles Gallego has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.2.0	Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Good morning, President. Good morning, Counselor. Good morning to all of you. Well, then, the inquiry sees a mike set up from the Councillor's appearance, Councillor Giró's appearance, in the committee, in the Committee on Economics and History, where the objectives of his department were disengaged. And I think he did an important exercise in explaining the limits and the intentions, for what he does to the government, the public finances and the economic action of the government, right? But I was left, of that appearance, a concern. It seems that the Government's proposal for economic policy action is aimed at recovering the economic growth parameters and consolidating an economic structure that I believe, with the crisis of covid-19, has shown the limits and contradictions. It is true that, with massive vaccination and the lifting of some restrictions, activity is beginning to recover, and the economy, to activate. This June we saw the data on the occupation. We have seen that the data of the day has diminished, but with strong imbalances, eh? : a great increase in social security affiliation to the service sector and very low increases to industry and construction, which also shows us, say, some of the fevers of the recovery that we are having, right? Therefore, as we act, in a way, because the economic dam corrects the departure deficits foreseen to the crisis of the covid and impulses changes in the forms of production and distribution and consumption. I think the pandemic has left us all learning strength, hasn't it? , of the fevers of the economic model and of the insufficiency of the welfare state. The shortages of the health system or converting the residences into the zero area of the pandemic believe that they are a sad example of the fevers of our welfare status model. Either the imbalances of the industrial model and the inability to supply the material needs of a society in crisis, or the high external dependence of our economy, with centres of decision..., or with subordinate position of global value chains, right? I think there's been a lot of bad weather in our economy. Or the huge dependence of our model of growth of a tourism model very predatory of the territory and resources and labor rights, unfortunately, that has shown feverish and needy, too, to be reconsidered, right? It has also become more evident, with the pandemic, I believe, the global challenges ahead: climate change, depopulation, loss of biodiversity, digitalisation, digital choice or increasing social and territorial inequalities, or gender equality. I think these elements, too, we saw, with the pandemic, with the crisis; they were here and we had to act to cope, say, with these challenges and those needs, right? And he also gave us lessons that are worth incorporating into everyday political practice and economic policy, right? : the value of cooperation between institutions, inter-institutional; the value of the dialogue and the social concertation of the Government with economic and social agents; the value of the work and, in particular, of the work of cures to keep society alive in critical times, or the market limitations to allocate resources efficiently and fairly. I think it has become clear that the criticism of the defiance of the value of competitiveness has been questioned in finding that collaboration and cooperation are essential, isn't it? Therefore, it is clear that what we need is a long-term, strategic governance action that addresses the great transformations of an outdated and inoperative economic model before the global challenges that we need to address, and to ensure a future of prosperity where no one is left behind and aligns with the objectives of sustainable development and the Paris agreements in relation to the climate crisis. Therefore, Catalonia's economic model is that we transform it, that we change it. It is important that the government's political action goes to grips with the problems we have to change and build an economic model that makes it very clear that its objectives are to ensure the well-being of people within the planetary boundaries. This objective, the blessing on the planetary limits, I think it's the one that has to focus the economic policies of this country, isn't it? An economic model, therefore, ecofeminist, that persecuted the welfare of people in conditions of social justice, gender and cultural equity, with respect to the planetary boundaries, and especially this, in a climate-emergency context. These are dimensions that must guide recovery policies for the economic and social prosperity of the country. The transformations that Catalonia needs must be structured into three axes: economic transition, social justice and economic democracy. When we talk about the ecological transition and living within the planetary boundaries, we need to talk about the energy transition, the reduction of emissions, a model of mobility; the deployment of renewables in a fair way, behind the territory, which also generates activity and local work places, which contribute to the development and balance of the territory. We need to talk about a circular economy, an industrial model based on a circular economy – we need to take steps to reduce the plasticity of a single sun, to go further than we are doing – a new Catalan strategy of waste and the development of industry 4.0. We need to talk about agroecology and biodiversity. We need to talk, too, obviously, about finance, right? ; finance as an essential sector in the service of the transition, according to the public banking proposals that are fan of the Government. But when we talk about public banking we need to talk about a public bank that finances those activities oriented to this transformation model, and, therefore, about a public bank that finances initiatives that contribute to the economic transition and to the reduction of emissions. Talk, too, about social justice, huh? , to put people in the center. And that means we're gonna have to talk about rendering policies, rendering policies enough for people. Therefore, we will have to talk about ensuring sufficient entrances through work, with policies of public intervention, from action; of economic policy that the government does through public contract, one can condition the behavior of the enterprises, the wage behavior of the enterprises, right? And we must also use the guaranteed income policies of citizenship: as this guaranteed income of citizenship the update depends on the existence of a vital minimum income, not as a substitute, but as a complementary element that allows us to go further and meet new needs in relation to guaranteed income. We need to review Catalonia's sufficiency income index. It's been frozen for years. That's a scandal. There is no logic in justifying the maintenance of the frozen IRSC. And we must promote, too... we must be proactive with the skills, so to speak, of the work. We have to value collective bargaining as an element, too, of respect for labor rights and the pursuit of fraud, etcetera, right? And put life and cures at the centre of action, too, of the government's economic policy; making public services, therefore, the tool to improve the quality of life. We need to talk about public servants, sanitation, housing, education, but we also need to talk about a system of cures, right? , to ensure care for large people, children, people with dependency and disabilities. We must strengthen the system of cures to increase the protection and visibility of professional and non-professional caregivers, who are essential workers, right? And we also need to talk about territorial balance, if we are talking about social justice. And we need to talk about democratisation, too, don't we? Because we are considering the need to promote a new law of social and solidary economy, but we also need to talk about promoting more participatory forms of society beyond the social and solidary economy. Ensuring the participation of workers in corporate governance must be a value to be promoted, too, from the government's policy, and we can start it from public enterprises, this action. We need to make dialogue and social concertation – we said – an essential tool to govern strategic changes and fair transitions and to prevent anyone from getting back. And we need to make public procurement a tool to democratise businesses, to ensure the quality of work and corporate responsibility within the territory. And we obviously have to approach everything that refers to the digitalization of public management, right? : a good governance, an accountability, an evaluation culture; ensuring an efficient management of public resources. Efficiency in managing public accounts is also a key element. And the efficiency in managing public resources means not only applying them well, but also acting when there are costs, taking away practices of friendship and clientelism, right? In conclusion, government policy must place people at the centre, respond to social emergencies and guarantee public services and strengthen democracy. It has to guarantee the economic recovery and the occupation and quality of the work. It has to reinforce the welfare state with enough public entrances through a redistributive, green and fair taxation. Because in taxation we still have room for redemption; therefore, we have room to act positively with a change of actions that address these economic transformations, also green, that the country needs. And we need to reorient the product models that agree with economic and social agents an industrial and productive strategy that guarantees an ecological transition and a respectful digitalization with rights. All right, all right, Thank you very much. We'll talk later... [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.3.0	To answer, has the word Lord Jaume Giró, Counsellor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.4.0	Thank you, President. Many thanks, Mr. Member, Mr. Joan Carles Gallego; Members and Members... I understand very well your question, which, moreover, I sincerely appreciate, but I do not know if I would talk about the transformation of the model of the Catalan economy. During the past few days I have referred precisely to the solvency of our economy and its resistance to the length of the later years, despite what some have tried to build through a report that the data do not show, in any case. So, having worked and resisted, I'd rather talk in another way, and now I'll explain it here to the chamber, not so much model transformation. Our forecasts indicate that the growth for this year 21, and also for the year 22, will be significantly above the European average. Therefore, the Catalan economy has good vigour. And, to life, when one thing works well, the best thing is not to make inventions, not to give it the turn like a medium, and that's what the word transformation implies. I totally agree with you, Mr. Member, that the lessons after the crisis must reflect on us and improve many things; among them, the cooperation of the public and private economy, a new impulse of truth to social justice and concrete measures of welfare for the citizen and citizen. But this does not mean completely transforming the model; this, from my point of view, means making adjustments, gradual adjustments, but significant adjustments. In the presentation I made last week before the Economic Commission of this chamber I already referred with much detail to the future plans of the council. I'll need to be synthetic today. And what I would say to him is that the government's economic policy should turn and we want it to turn on three axes. The first is to recover resources from the State so that it can implement its own policies. I know I run the risk of repeating myself, but I also know it's my obligation to remember. Miri, here we have a transformation of the model that gives the turn as a myth to the way we currently have to dispose of those that are our resources. As long as they grow in time, injustices are not converted into finally legitimate situations. What has to be done with injustice is to report it until it is resolved. Personally, I am sure that when we get the Catalans to have the resources that we ourselves generate and when we can exercise interterritorial solidarity we make our own decisions, then all of you will ask how it was possible for so long to live in a situation as unfair as today. That's how it's always been in history with similar situations. I don't want to give examples that come to mind so I don't want to give context headlines. I will only tell you that, of the situations that today seem unacceptable to us, historians would be able to explain that, for the people who commit them, those injustices were completely normalized; now, for the people who suffer from them, injustices were difficult to bear. The second big thing is to promote a social economy, a social economy that you want for the people who suffer the most. I won't let them believe that, for what it does to the economy, I have a liberal mindset in the classical sense, and that I believe that the best way to create wealth in a country is to promote a free market model in which the State guarantees the healthy, transparent competition of all agents on equal terms and which, at the same time, promotes fair redistributive policies and social character. That said, I also grow firmly – and those who know me like that know it – that a country that does not redistribute sufficient resources to the most disadvantaged city is not found to be acting only according to an ethical criterion that is more questionable – no, it is not just that – but they are also losing opportunities to take advantage of the talent of thousands of people who, for their own sakes, if they do not do anything at all contrary, will not have opportunities to form, they will not have opportunities to develop their talent and to flourish in society with all their potential. A country that does not, in short, correct the inequality of opportunities is a country that is losing innovative people – scientists, midwives, teachers, entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs... –, a country that is losing qualified professionals that could have been if there were opportunities to be. Therefore, the allocation of resources to social policies, which often, in strictly presuppostarial terms, is considered almost a current expenditure, I see it as a reversal, an absolutely necessary and indispensable country reversal; a long-term reversal, but a reversal. The third is to promote an economy for the future; an economy that, with the eyes in which we stand, can become stronger structural foundations than those we have today. We are a country – I said before – that it has an economic model that, with all aspects to improve, has worked; that works and that is competitive and comparable to the best economies in Europe. We are a country that knows how to make industry and that we are following industry, industry adapted to the challenges ahead; that is to say, we have to adapt it to the parameters of sustainability, cutting-edge technology and digitalization. And here we need to strengthen the scientific, research, innovation, both public and private, because in the past few years the private sector has been a bit ahead of the public. It has its explanation for all the stars that the crisis has caused in the accounts, but we have to get to the level, mainly in areas where the Catalan economy, the Catalan economy model, has demonstrated its strengths and capabilities. We have an export-oriented economy – I explained the other day – with a positive external balance even at the earliest times, with a diversified productive structure – services, industry, tourism, hospitality, agriculture – with a high foreign investment attraction capacity. Any time, the Financial Times puts us as the best place to invest in southern Europe. Thirty percent of the foreign productive investment sees Catalonia. We cannot fall asleep; we must "squeeze more, but let us go well, here: model of research and science of excellence, and industry – which I will not tire of, nor will I repeat – as the basic pillar. I think we need to boost all these elements. And there is no doubt that the government and this Economics Council will try to empower them without ever obliving the whole social aspect, which today will be more than ever needed to address it – this next year 22nd and 23rd – in order to try to recover all the people who have suffered and who have suffered so much as the consequences of the long-running crisis from 2008-09 until 13th as the later crisis of the covid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply, Mr. Joan Carles Gallego has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.6.0	Well, thank you. Certainly, I think we've all gone to the same class. I believe that, in this pandemic, we have all attended the same class, from different social classes and each at its level, but theoretically we have gone to learn the same things. We went to the same class, but it doesn't look like we're all after exactly the same. We haven't all learned the same lessons from this crisis. Because I do not believe that the problem of addressing the challenge of social justice can only be done with small adjustments or great adjustments in the current economic model, because I believe that many of the fevers that have occurred and that have been evident in this crisis have been the result of contradictions, of the limits, say, of an economic model based on commercialization at the time of allocating resources. These concepts of the free market as an efficient resource assignor or competitiveness as the engine element of change and evolution believe that they have demonstrated their feverishness. Neither the market for itself works without strong public sector intervention nor competitiveness pushes things forward if there is no cooperation between institutions and between organisations and between people. In short, competitiveness alone, without collaboration and cooperation, does not serve anything at all, and many times leaves us limited to where we are. Therefore, I believe that the crisis has given us many lessons, not only of the fevers we have, but of the important challenges that we must tackle in the future. And the climate-emergency front thinks it's an obvious and shared front for everyone, and it's going to need to approach it, and to approach it, it's going to need to do a lot of background transformations of our industrial model. But it's not just this, the line he left in the front. The challenge that lies ahead is also the challenge of the enormous social inequality that exists in our society, which has become clearer and clearer, with this crisis. The most difficult social sectors have had more hardships and difficulties to cope with the pandemic crisis, and that is so. Inequality generates more inequality in times of crisis. And, therefore, it is also an important repte that we cannot forget. Or the low value that certain jobs have proved essential to guarantee the life of society..., we see that they have not been valued. They are precisely the most precarious places of work in society, those that have kept society alive. He's shown us a lot of hardships that we'll have to tackle, and to address them, we'll have to change ways of organizing resources and how we distribute and how we consume in this society. The councillor now had three great objectives. One, the issue of retrieving resources. It is not only to recover resources, but to provide us with sufficient resources to make public policies necessary. And providing us with sufficient resources to make the necessary public policies is not just talking about the new funding model; that yes, and I'm glad that the advisor talked about a new funding model, because that means that it wanted to address a negotiation that has been stalled since 2014 and that, to the extent that they didn't want to negotiate since 2014, the funding model was not only unfair, but also ineffective and inefficient to be able to face the challenge. It is necessary to negotiate with the State a new model of financing that gives satisfaction to our requests, that guarantees the ordination in our position of contribution, but that also guarantees the co-responsibility and also that I introduced the solidarity element. Therefore, retrieving resources will be talking about a new funding model. But if we're talking about retrieving resources, we also need to talk about own fiscal policy. And we have the capacity, we have the competition margin enough to make fiscal policy change, which helps to change, the bases, too, of the product model; a green taxation, which clearly leads to economic action in those less polluting actions, more favorable to the change of product model. We're also recovering resources from the fight against tax fraud. And the fight against tax fraud also involves a greater collaboration and cooperation of the Catalan Tax Agency with the state, because that's where we can detect tax fraud places and areas. Therefore, to recover resources will find us, but oriented well. The second question he put refers to redistributive policies as an element of social justice, of struggle against inequality. There is not enough to talk about redistributive policies; yes, but redistributive policies make up for it. We need to talk about predistributive policies. We have to go where the difference is generated, the inequality. We need much stronger public policies at the base: education policies, training policies, which ensure that people can access quality work places. We need more work inspection action to ensure that work is done in terms of quality: well paid, well valued... We need own initiative from public procurement to condition the action of companies in terms of quality work: well paid, etc. Therefore, redistributive policies do, but above all predistributive policies. And a new industrial model, obviously, adapted to climate change and climate change. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.7.0	To make the reply, has the word the Councillor of Economy and History, the Lord Jaume Giró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.8.0	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. Congressman, again. Look, it's very hard to make a reply to her. You're funny, aren't you? Because... It gets really hard because I agree practically everything you said. Listen, I'm not going into personal issues, but I'm out of the opportunities that a society with a social elevator and opportunities to study, to train, and that with the job I've finished my life well. So I can't agree more with everything you said. And believe 'that I agree very much that we have to put all the measures that we can take, because the model that I give you, in which I believe – listen, it is what I believe –, and I have not said in the morning, I mean, the classic model of liberal economy in which competition is perfect... After that, to life, that this almost never works, and that is why the public sector, the governments, must enter, to make it truly competitive, transparent and that you really need because you give more opportunities to those who need them, and that there is a net, clear and transparent market. In everything that is to help, I insist, to give more opportunities because everyone pulls forward and helps in social justice will find us, this government and this councillor, can be sure. And if, therefore, we are lucky – that we will have it – to have a long and fruitful mandate, we will see it. I think that in my first intervention here at the Faristol I recalled, precisely, some very worrying facts of the European Social Progress Index, published by the European Commission, that I personally am really surprised and hurt, that it is with Catalonia that it does not occupy the same place in social index as in income or GDP per capita, right? And that's what you're afraid we're gonna have to have a lot of presents. I mean, it can't be that Catalonia occupies 135– 135– in social progress– 135 out of 240 regions across Europe – and a place that actually per GDP..., per GDP is 76, and, in change, for social issues is 135. And that we are more close to those communities than in economic terms to the state in poor days, like Andalusia or Extremadura, than not of the Basque Country. It doesn't feel like we're here in the social sphere. And that means, therefore, that for a few years perhaps not everything had been done. And, therefore, in matters of education, in matters of teaching, in matters of sanitation, in matters of salvation, the data are frankly worrying. And the challenge we have is this: making assumptions that make it possible to advance economically, that take a lot of business into account, all the fabric of small and medium-sized businesses that the country has, that are ultimately generating jobs, paying their taxes and helping the wheel move forward. We have to help them, we have to empower them, we have to make it easier. And, at the same time, have a social awareness of what all the government's action is, huh? , do not forget that the country is a plural, diverse, heterogeneous country, also in possibilities and returns. We'll have this very much present, and I hope we can do it by demonstrating measures. I promise to try, huh? I know it's sometimes trying to square the circle, but it's our will to do it and we'll try it. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.9.0	Let's get to the point of the order of the day, which is the question to the government about the new organization of the Department of Economics and History. [[Question to the Government on the new organisation of the Department of Economy and History]] [[300-00024/13]] It is an inquiry presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance, and now has the use of the word Mrs. Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.10.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good day, counselor, deputies and deputies. Well, today my group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, the question is fixed in its organizational chart. An organization chart, certainly, counselor, of which he did not give us masses of details in his appearance just a few days ago. That's why today we wanted to put a little focus on it, and, in concrete terms, on the Secretary of Diffusion. I'd like to make two initial remarks. It seems to us that the Department of Economics incorporates the Secretary of Diffusion as the least curios – curios. Perhaps it would be more relevant, obviously, to the Presidency, as it was before, or to a vice-presidency. It looks like maybe you could have been a vice president, but finally, so the negotiations didn't end up feeling that way. And, therefore, it seems strange that this finally ended in the Department of Economics. Unless it's not because you really have a very professional background attached to the media, and therefore this is the endorsement that makes this secretary end up in the Economics Department. We'd love you to clear up a little bit of what the motius are, wouldn't we? That makes the Department of Economics actually incorporate a secretary of diffusion with these competitions that you have today. It took forty-one days to appoint the secretary of Diffusion. You told us in your appearance that you were wearing thirty-four days to the carrec, and, well, that, obviously, therefore, it was an area that you did not know, because you do not see politics, and that, therefore, needed time. We believe that forty-one days are excessive. Among other things, why was the secretary who later appointed himself, and that makes us doubt his name, right? We'd like to know exactly what happened here. We know – because we have read it in some media, and therefore here you can confirm it or not – that you were looking for a more neutral profile for the Diffusion Secretary, someone who does not come from private media, and therefore someone who can do more equitably this work so important that this secretary does, right? That, as the decree of the department says, has as function the diffusion of the activity of the Government of the Generality, the management and the corporate institutional communication of the Administration of the Generality and its public sector; therefore, among other things, the distribution to media of the campaigns to spread the activity of the Government. But finally yesterday..., before yesterday– on the 6th, I think it was – it was published to the DOGC the name of a person who came from private media. And, therefore, this makes us question whether this appointment, counselor, has been made by you or has been made by others, if they have imposed it. It gives us the feeling that if you really wanted it to be a more neutral profile, then you didn't get it, putting in someone who came from private media. Look, this isn't an inquiry against diffusion policy, not much less. We believe that communication and institutional diffusion are very important in a government. We need to pass on to the citizen the policy of governments, and we have important examples of that, right? For example, in vaccination. There have been campaigns in the field of vaccination where we explained to the city how to develop this. And it's obvious, very clear, very uplifting, because the citizens are informed. Therefore, we do not make an inquiry against the policy of diffusion, but we do want you to clarify some of the doubts we have. Miri, in Catalonia, we have – and you know it – good middlemen and very good professionals, who, moreover, have suffered a lot during the pandemic. It's true, they've suffered a lot, the media. And we have to help them, and we absolutely agree. Now, we would like to see this way of helping them – what is to be done –..., to do so with a support and to be based on well-defined criteria, clear criteria, precise, clear and transparent criteria. We believe that it is the least we can ask for to make a distribution of public resources to the media to develop this work as important as we say. And, in this sense, I want to tell you that, when one enters the Generalitat's website – that I already warn you, counselor, that soc of the deputies who enter there a lot, and, therefore, seeks a lot of information–..., I have seen that the last memo published is from 2018. That is to say, we have no published memo on the Secretary of Dissemination, and therefore on the Advisory Commission on Institutional Advertising, neither of the year 2019 nor of the year 2020– obviously, the one of 2021 no longer says it. That is to say, there is a certain lack of transparency in this area. And so, I'm telling you, you've got work, you, counselor, and you've got work, too, the secretary of diffusion. The year 2018, which is the last memory we have, the Government has dedicated €32 million to dissemination policies. It's the highest cipher in the entire decade. 2010 is spent 21, and, therefore, is an important xifra. At these times, we're on the presuppositional side. We don't know exactly how much we're spending on 2020, and so we don't know what the assumption is for 2021. See if you can make this clear to us. As he didn't want to do a new one, so let's look at it for a long time and imagine it's going to be the same as 2020. But how – you know very well – these games are not just from the Diffusion Secretary, but also from other departments..., we would like to know if you have this script at these times. Plus, this pocket, right? , of distribution and dissemination, has an advertising advisory commission – as I said – that is made up of external members of different backgrounds, all professional, that conform to this commission. I must tell you that, in memory, they are very surprised that the year 2018 so only convened in a single time this commission. And do you know when she was summoned, counselor? I'm telling you, 'cause I'm sure you haven't had time to look at it, this: the 20th of December. And I say, "If we have a commission of publicity advisor, it's normal that I call her to explain the campaigns, to validate them, to give them the view, and, from here, we act. No, we'll call them at the end of the year, because I can't say anything anymore, because I'll let them know what happened, how well he went. But it seems to me that this is not the function of an advertising advisory commission, when, more than that, we go looking for professionals from outside because we give our opinion. I think this is a way of working that should change. We don't want this type of commission to be informed, we want it to be consulted. And, as the very honourable president said yesterday: "Effective falls– effective falls. It seems to me that this is what surrounds us, not bringing to the committee girls' campaigns and you already decide. Miri, from before the pandemic is not called, this commission; it is to say that surely we are already going to the year and mig, that this commission is not called. And so, finally, this objective of accountability and transparency seems to me not to complete it very well, or at least in these later months. We would obviously like this committee to have a role to play in the creation of the campaigns, as at least in this view, wouldn't we? , in this consultation, and also in the distribution that is made to the media, as I said, with criteria that we believe should be transparent, clear, well-defined, so that we are all convinced that public resources are being used in the best possible way. Another thing there is in this secretary – which obviously has work to do –: they made a strong agreement on management and institutional advertising on October 2018. This deal was for two years plus one extension, and therefore this competition could be extended three years. If that's the case, the October of this year 2021 is running out, and therefore we should not make a new one. I ask you, counselor, do you know if you're already working on this brand new deal? If there's any news, any information, if it's already gone – because, actually, October is here, there's three or four months left, with August for the mig –..., and, if not..., this will get complicated. And it is true that it is important that we can inform the citizens of everything the government does, and therefore this issue is a matter of concern to us. This March agreement that was approved in 2018 was worth 32_million euros, as we have already said. And, therefore, if you are working on it, if you are living to do it, if the secretary – the new secretary of Diffusion – has set himself, therefore, we would like that in us, also, some detail. In short, counselor, the message I think is very clear: we are not against communication and dissemination policies; what would please us is that it is fessin' well. We would like to know, this name, with what criteria it has completed, and whether it has actually completed it or imposed it on you. And we'd be happy to know what we have in 2021, with the presuppositional prorogate; if we're on the way to this agreement already, because, if we're not, we're already late – a little like the presuppositions in 2022, which, if we don't get them in October, we won't be able to approve them until the year is over – and it seems to me that it would be good that after a decade, we do the work when we're close. And we would appreciate it if this secretary had transparency, transparency, accountability, and, therefore, what value it is that, if there is a commission like it exists, with professionals recognized that what they want to do is to help the government do it the best possible way, to spread the best possible way..., so I think it would have to take more consideration, and therefore not call them at Masses, huh? , not to summon them to Masses said, but to summon them because they can give their opinion and – surely – improve this work so laudable and so important and so transcendent that the Government of the Generality makes with the diffusion and distribution of the communication. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.11.0	Then there's the words of the Economics and History Advisor, Mr. Jaume Giró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.12.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... Mrs Romero, the truth is that, as the inquiry was about the structure of the Economics Department, the least I expected is that you asked me about the Diffuse Secretary, and therefore I will improvise depending on all the questions and doubts you asked me. Look, I, at the committee meeting that we had, parliamentary, it's true that I didn't talk about the structure of the Department, because it seemed to me that it was an organization – which is – purely instrumental, in the right sense of the word; second, that I could upset the deputies, and third, that I made a few changes. Half the seven other ranks there, counting the secretary and the general directorates... I haven't changed any, because they're all professionals of a lot of prestige and a lot of talent and other servants of the Administration. And, therefore, I have made the slightest possible changes in what is, let's say, the first line of advice, which are those eventual charges that need to be changed. Beyond that, I've made quite a few changes. I insist, half are the same as there were, and for many years they could be. Second place, well, also tell him that in our office half are women and the other half, men. I mean, we've been looking for it, too, and I've been very worried about it, especially, that this was it. And lastly, if you want me to tell you everything about the broadcast, I'll explain it to you. Miri, from the day I am informed of the proposal to be a counselor and I say yes, I begin to think of many responsibilities, of secretaries, of directorates-general, and which people I need to know to see if they continue or if I need to make new ones. My last concern is diffusion. I mean, there's only one name left for me to do, which I haven't done yet, and the penultimate is, as you very well said, what I did last week. If this theme is important to me..., which is important, but if it is the most important of the counseling, how can I imagine, in a person like me, that I try not to escape one, I have followed the first name you have made, not the penultimate. Do you understand me? I mean, it has an import, but it does have a relative import, for me, of what the Economics and History Council of the country is. Okay? So, that's the first point. Listen, I can assure you that if it was a theme, for me, transcendental, I haven't waited that long. Second, escort, the secretary of Diffusion goes... no. You said: "Why are you in Economics? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. , "Why is he in Economics? All right, I'll explain. As you know, there is a general criterion, in the agreements between Esquerra and Juntes..., it is the one that rotates the whole general agreement. This agreement is to interchant..., the responsibilities and skills that Esquerra had, now tea Juntes ; the ones that Juntes had, tea Esquerra. Diffusion was in the Economy, not the Vice-President, because the Vice-President as such has no skills. I mean, Vice President, you can put her where you want her. The competition for diffusion was the Economy, and the Economy continues. So let's not try to find any strange explanations for him, because he's where he was, and he's still there. Then, about the chosen person. Actually, I said at some point that they asked me that I was looking for a professional who was as neutral and objective as possible, in the sense that I had not been in other governments. I mean, I wasn't a comet, "professional of the Secretary of Diffusion." That's true, and at some point someone asked me. Not for nothing, but because I wanted a professional who came from outside. And who are we looking for? Personally, I don't doubt that I have a virtue and I have a flaw, and it's that I have criteria for things... sometimes it's been good for me and sometimes it's caused me some disgust, but I have criteria for it, I can assure you. So, I looked for a professional who has never been to any government, who has never been to any party – as a counselor, no government, no party – and who goes from being deputy director of the leading broadcaster in Catalonia, the number two of this private broadcaster, which is private, but he has been before in Catalonia Radio, has been on TV3... And, listen, I've been looking for the person who's professional, competent, and who doesn't have, let's just say, no kind of conditioning for which I see it can't be, huh? I think it's much better than at other stages, that there has been, too, with tripartites and with the ruling Socialist Party, notebook people or people who have lived all their lives around the party. I honestly think it's better that way. That said, this does not guarantee king, and people must be judged by their work. This person, this professional, insists, strictly professional and with an accredited path of success in what is his camp, was named on Tuesday. He started yesterday, and I ask him, therefore, to vote of confidence that he will do well, because I imagine he will do well, I'm not convinced; otherwise, you didn't name him, did you? The PSC has, along all these years... I remember, therefore, the competence of Diffusion to different places, and I respect them all. He has sometimes been in the Presidency, with some presidents of the PSC; he has also been in Culture, when the tripartite agreements with Esquerra had to agree that this topic was once a subject for Culture. Listen, I think, in the end, the important thing is that you do well, as you say: with professional criteria, with criteria that respond transparently to what is transcendence, relevancy and media audience. And that's how they do it, huh? - And that's how they do it. In the alternate government, I don't know where you have it. If they have it somewhere in the alternate government, so do you, and so can we do the proper coordination. Then, as I said, listen, the subject of the contract is this one that you say, the convenient one, I haven't seen it yet, honestly. As I say, I want to wait for Mr. Jofre Llumbart to land, who carries one day to his place, and I suppose he will already tell me how the subject is, how the assumption is. This year's premise... I guess more than half of it must be already, so, executed by the former officials carrying this secretary, and when I get to know what you're doing, we'll see about it. But it is a function that, like so many others, I will delegate to the secretary and, in this case, to the secretary of Diffusion. I don't think there was any other question you left me, and, if that's the case, you remember me now, huh? The presupposition... I don't know what presupposition you have to have. I know that the year 2020..., being a year especially, let's say, different, difficult, there was a certain increase in the premise for the subject of the covid to be able, so, make the campaigns– let's not think badly –, to make the appropriate campaigns, to remind people of the measures of precaution, of salvation and vaccination, etcetera, but, frankly, I imagine it is in a cipher similar to the one that was the year 18-19. And any other doubts... we see now, at the rebuttal. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.13.0	Then there's the word "Mrs. Alicia Romero" in the replica turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.14.0	Good morning again. Counselor, I got him for an intelligent person, huh? And it seems to me that your professional appeal supports that, doesn't it? , and therefore, if the Socialist Group asks you..., Socialists and Units to move forward asks you for the organizational chart of the department... It is obvious that you have made..., there are two novelties, in this chart: one is the Secretary of Economic Affairs and European Affairs – who has incorporated the European Foundations there, which was not – and the other is the Secretary of Dissemination. And so, man, yes, it could be a lot of things, but... well, I think it wasn't so complicated to see that the two important novelties were these. You say, "Well, I didn't name it yet because it wasn't that important. Well, we'll see, if it's not that important, but in any case, he's been the secretary not only of his department, but of all, the appointment later or later. And you say that's the answer, too, don't you? , to this agreement between Junts and Esquerra. Well, he's also very curious. [[the speaker laughs]] That the agreement between Junts and Esquerra is..., where was what was here, ends there, and, so... I mean, a lot of negotiation I don't know if there was- there, that week-end, if in the end there was the Esquerra and the Junts and the Esquerra. It doesn't seem like a criterion for governing a country, this one. I'm not saying that you, that you weren't in the negotiations... but it doesn't seem like the best criteria, for Esquerra and Juntes for Catalonia, to split up so the competitions, when, as Mr Gallego said before and you also commented on it, we're in a very hard way in the field of education, of social services – which yesterday also commented on the deputy of my group, Raúl Moreno –..., in other words, how we frivolize, isn't it? But well, I mean, letting this be... I did not like this comment, counselor, that you make, despite, about the people who see the parties: "No, because this came from the party, this was from the party. The very honorable president is a Republican Leftist activist from many years ago, he was a spokesman for the JERCs. Anyway, being a party, carrying a lot of militant years, that's all denied. People decide what their free time, their altruism, and, in many cases, so... to the lives of others, right? , is to say, to collectivity, to defend public interest, through a political organization, a cultural entity, sports... And, well, I see here a lot now... I see here the esteemed David Saldoni, with whom we also shared many years, when I was in a political entity, and, well, I think we're all just as honorable. Coming from a party isn't denied, and you don't use it, huh? , as an element to denigrate, diguessim, people. When Montilla was president, this broadcast was in the presidency, huh? , and there were various people who bore these responsibilities. We, the alternate government – I see, counselor, who is very interested in the topic, not just for a marketing theme, huh? , but I see he's interested in the issue of alternate government, and we're very happy that it's still that way– I'll tell him he's in the presidency. This is a topic that..., there is a counselor who brings the themes of audiovisual media, but, in concrete terms, this topic directly depends on our president, Salvador Illa. Another thing I wanted to comment on. You, well, forty-one days ago he took possession and didn't have time to look at this, because he says it's not that important. Well, neither are the assumptions for 2021, which, unfortunately, we won't see either. Finally, I hope that you will get there, because I assure you already – I have said it many times – that the Socialist Group and Unites for Forward makes a tough and strong opposition; always friendly, always constructive, but hard and strong. We like to do diving, I always say, not surfing, and so we go deeper into the themes. And, therefore, you said to me: "I don't know exactly what the assumption is, I don't know exactly if we've been working on this March agreement, I don't know the functioning of the council... Well, then, to the Secretary of Diffusion, Mr. Jofre Llombart, who sees by a private means..., all our respect for Mr. Llombart. As you say, we will value it for your facts, but it does not cease to be strange, to say so, that a person who sees a private media will, in the end, be the one who distributes resources to private media, who are the ones who help us make the diffusion of the Government's communication. Therefore, counsel, we would be pleased to see that in the next few weeks – and, if that is not the case, we would be looking to ask for an appearance in committee – these aspects are spelled out: what are the premises, what are your views and what are your intentions in relation to the Commission's Institutional Publicity Adviser; how is this marked agreement, and what work, therefore, will be done in relation to transparency, accountability, which, as I say, is deplorable enough, bearing in mind that the later memo published on the Generality website is in 2018. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.15.0	Then there's the words of the Economics and History Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.16.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Mrs Romero, take advantage of, before everything else, clarify, if anyone has interpreted..., or I have poorly explained myself with a denial or pejorative tone when I answered what you were asking me, which you were asking me..., wanted to, at your inquiry, make sure – and it seems very good to me, because you are absolutely right – that you were ‘a neutral person' – you said these words to me – the secretary of Diffusion. And it's in this context that I tell him not to come from any party. For me politics is the most important office a city can do, I can guarantee it. There's some of my errands, now that it's all coming out on the Internet, I'm sure it's got to be there. It is the most important office that can make a citizen or a citizen. And so, among many other things, I wanted to make this bet too. It's the most important thing. You'll never find a word of mine against this so noble, so laudable office. So, it was in this context, in the sense that it wasn't a party. Because it was easier, the criticism, if you've taken over or if you've named an equally good professional person but worn twenty-five years in a game, isn't it? So maybe the criticism has been easier. And that's why I said, in this context, we've been looking for someone who doesn't have this, this conditioning or this idea. Then, listen to me, I say to her: "The Secretary of Diffusion is important, but it is not the most important of the Economics Council. Do you understand what I mean? That's the only thing I want to say. Because it's obvious that you have a paper that we're going to try..., and we're going to do the best we can depending on the relevancy of every half hour and the line that we think we need to do. That's to say, listen to me, I've already said it, and I'm going back to say it now: public media..., for me public media are very important. I think I said it here one day at the Faristol and I'll say it again. If they can be sensitive, then so can they. And look at him being told by a counselor that... we've finally picked a person who sees from the private, one thing has nothing to do with the other. And in this sense, we will work to do the best we can. And therefore, so that I have more data, I will not have any inconvenience in giving them - with the same transparency that there is in other legislatures. I'll be aware of how it's been handled in other legislatures, and with the same transparency that's been done before, I promise to do it, huh? And we're not going to talk. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.17.0	So let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government about the feminization of the Generality's Bomber Cos, an question that has been presented to the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. [[Question to the Government on the feminization of the Generality's Fire Cos]] [[300-00025/13]] And Mrs. Núria Picas has the word to make her presentation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.18.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, conseller, deputies and deputies. First of all, what I would like to say in this intervention, as I did in the appearance of the past diver, is that for me it is an honor to have the opportunity to talk about the situation of the woman to the Generality's Bomber Cos, and to make her more like the Member of this Parliament. And this honor... it's also doing it like the generality firefighter in excess, because I think it's a wonderful profession, which we have to defend with all our strength. And now more than ever I have the opportunity to represent all the companies of my profession so as to raise the view and put again on the table what is a need, which is to review what is the role of the woman to the Firehouse. From the very beginning, the Republican Left Parliamentary Group is clear that we want to accompany the government to transform the country socially and to move it forward nationally. We want to help bring about these changes, and we want to get it through the four great revolutions that we have in the long run, and one of them is the feminist. And here's where I'm going today. We bet on changes that are transformative and to work from a feminist, cross-cutting perspective, and that goes through feminizing the Department of Interior and, concretely, the Generality's Firehouse. In this sense, we have various points to make, counselor. Today, there are 50 firefighters at the Bomber Cos. This morning, before coming to Parliament, through the WhatsApp group we have – how we are so few [[the speaker laughs]] So, we have a group of WhatsApp – we said, "Good morning and we wanted to keep a good look out for the firefighters who are coming in today. We can quote them very quickly, because it won't be very long: today we have Laia and Eva, who are working in Cardona – all anecdote, eh? We have the Navy, Montse Martínez and Emma, who are in the Girona region; we have Gentiana Meneses and Jennifer Perna, who are today in the North Metropolitan, Sabadell and Rubí; there is no guard fire station in the South Metropolitan; there is no guard fire station in the Lleida region; and there is a veteran, Carmel Romero, and Gemma, in the Tarragona region. And we only have one command, which is Inspector Mar Gil. In total, twelve guard firemen plus a meth and a nurse. I would also like to mention today to all the volunteer firefighters, who are certainly not there – a few – who are also on guard. So, to all of them, to wish them good care, and, above all, if it can be, to work a little. Therefore, it does not need to be very visionary to know that more women fall to the Bomber Cos. These numbers aren't the ones we'd want. They're worrying. For me, they're a little deceptive. And it is also very worrying the name of commands, which can be counted also, today, with the words of one hand. As I said, there's the sea, there's also the Ethel, the Marta and the Elisabeth, and there's only one inspector in the body, which is the Anna Martín. But it must also be said that we have firefighters, and that they are all very special, they are very strong and they are great professionals. It's a few, but it's very powerful. It is worrying, yes, and disappointing, too, but I am sure that what we have before us – and this is very positive – is that we have an opportunity, an opportunity to reverse this historical need. We know that the gender perspective is a priority in this legislature. Therefore, we have the opportunity, Mr. Counselor, to put a thread in the needle and reverse this prospect of genera that we are so concerned about. It's a country reality and a necessary change and a generational replenishment too much and much needed. So we've come to transform. And, to reverse this historical need, we also want to improve the situation in which this little collection of the body is found. We have mentioned that there are very few firemen, but also... to reverse this inequality that today is living in this small collection. It's been a long time since the firefighters claimed a series of better, also historical, and it's time to solve it – what we said about opportunities. For example, to give you some examples: that a firefighter today finds himself in a situation of embarrassment or withdrawal..., is to pull back. Isha adapts her place of work. Because he's pregnant, it's not an anomaly, and other things can be done, which today can't be done, but they need to be regularized. As, for example, they claim to continue to have mandatory and continuous training at the Institute of Public Security in Catalonia, which, today, if a firefighter is pregnant, so this cannot be completed. More things. Speaking of the adaptation of the place of work: that a firefighter who is pregnant can continue to enjoy or have the opportunity to devote a twenty per cent of his time to making his maintenance of the physical state and of salvation to the park. The issue of adapted clothing is also a historical demand, adapting the clothes to firefighters, which this thing changed in the course of these months. Or the great historical demand, too, to have some costumes in condition. Today there are firefighters who have to wait for the other walk-in firefighters in the locker room and throw a curtain, right? For example. And a long one will. Therefore, I need to review all of these embarrassing and delisting protocols. That the fact that a woman of the Bomber Cos is pregnant does not follow an impediment in her professional career, that it does not follow a stick between the wheels. And that's a job we have to do, and I'm sure it's going to go ahead. Among many other requests, huh? I also have the opportunity and would like to take advantage of it to focus on access tests. Today I think there are still very few women present in this evidence. Maybe because they haven't been created yet, maybe because of lack of information or maybe because of lack of references. I also come from the world of sports, and the world of referents also makes women sometimes tangled agafem, don't they? Therefore, admiring us in these firefighters who are doing their work today can also be very positive because many women, who today are in the street and may not believe it, say: "Ostres, if they are... why can't I do it? Therefore, I think it would be very good to push for campaigns of diffusion so as to promote access to it. It is, therefore, a tractaria to make the women firefighters visible. And, if the firefighters exist..., "why can't I do it? And for what he does to the access tests, you say. The day of rehearsals... we think it would be good to work or continue working to incorporate the perspective of genere and, more concretely, in physical trials. There's psychological evidence, there's the theme, there's the physics, there's the conduct, there's the personal interview; but here's the physical evidence, where you donate it many times you find an impediment. There are many who are left in the process. That doesn't mean they don't run like men. I can give an example: the rope, a proof that I think, for the physiology of a woman, plays them enough against. By this I do not mean to make evidence that women benefit – all the contrary – but that they adjust to the reality of gender. There may also be many other evidences that fit more into the reality of genera thinking about women, but without oblivion of the proof of strength and many other evidences. In the end and in the end, this is a team job, and where not a firefighter up there is another. There are high bombers, there are prime bombers, there are strong bombers, there are resistant bombers and prime, strong, low and very resistant bombers, and we don't go up one up the other. So, it's a team job. And I can't be a Mazinger Z to get into the Bomber Coss. [[The joker laughs.]] Those who are veterans already know who they are, don't you? The Mazinger? The youngest... [[Rialles. The joker laughs.]] So this, teamwork. That said, we'd like to know, counselor, who are the measures you think about because the woman's role in the body is normal, because we certainly need to modernize. Because, as I said earlier, it is a historical demand that we have in the body; therefore, a historical debt that we have with the woman, and therefore with our society: the feminization of the Firehouse. Because women have – we have – a very important role. It is a thing where vocation, dedication and personal generosity are on the order of the day and give exceptional value to this wonderful job that is the firefighter. It's a country reality and a necessary change, it's a generational replenishment and also much needed. Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.19.0	To answer the words of the Interior Counselor, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.20.0	Thank you very much, President. Member, many thanks for the inquiry, to be able to talk about a question that is relevant; also to represent, to represent the Bomber Cos. Indeed – I said – it is a wonderful job, and – I want to add – essential. And more on the days that we are, that we may be especially loving. And I want to take advantage of it to make a non-alarm cry, but to alert in caution, prudence, and that actually the bombers can stay these days in the park and there is the least possible work out of emergence. And thank you also for representing the women of the Bomber Cos. Congresswoman Picas has various characteristics: that she is a firefighter, that she is a woman, that she is an exceptionality, and, moreover, she is moving. And it's not usual to have so many..., represent so many things that matter to the department that I have the pride to captivate. Actually, it's an anomaly, it's not normal. It's that there are fifty of 2,500 agents, the Bomber Cos; it's one of two, it's a two-per-cent. And the realm of emergencies, also that of security, but very particularly that of emergencies, has been very and very associated with men, and women have always been very and very undervalued. I think I need to emphasize that there has not only been the name of women who have been in these activities, but also the perspective that is given to them. Surely one thing is connected with the other, in the gaze and in the perspective of the genere, which has not been inclusive. There's been an overly masculine biax. Surely this look only from the male perspective has caused precisely this gap, this situation so abnormal, this difficult imbalance. And it's obvious that if there's an imbalance, some things haven't been done right, or they haven't been done right. And if there's this imbalance there's a weight. And if there is a heaviness, it has to be corrected. And this discrimination and this difference are extremely obvious, because the numbers are expressed in this way, but they are even more unsustainable. And from this point of view, it is required of the department to act, and to do so urgently and with determination. There is a general objective of the department that is to feminize everything that refers to security, to emergencies, because it is a historical and also for a central idea, and it is that security and emergencies – the dimension of security from this more holistic, more global perspective – are something much and much more relevant to our society. We talk a little, fortunately, because when you don't talk it means things are going well, but when you talk about transcendence you have both security and prevention and performance before emergencies. And that's all we delegate, something so relevant, to the half of the population. Something is not right, and therefore we need to act with a certain urgency, with a certain urgency. He said that it is a general objective of the department, feminization, and, in concrete terms, in the land of the firemen, in the Cos de Bombers, incorporate more women into the body and promote the female leaders also between the body. And in this sense we need to make a set of actions to which we commit ourselves. I talked about some of them at the show, but naturally, I can be a little more explicit today. In the first place, to feminize the policies of the department, it is to say, to introduce this perspective of gender in the discourse, in the report, in the actions and also in the operating bodies. That is why it is necessary and essential to make a diagnosis and generate and create a plan of equality between the body: the diagnosis of why this happens and, therefore, act accordingly and take action. And that means and means, concretely, promoting access between the body. Therefore, from this point of view, from this perspective, we will create differentiated scales of score based on sex in the respective opposition, scheduled for enguany September. Different scales of scores will be fixed depending on the sex of the participants in the physical tests, to which the honourable Member refers. It will change the assessment of the two tests so that it allows you to reverse positively and give equal opportunities at the time of passing the tests both to the man and to the woman. Also the reference I made to uniformity, which is also a general action that we want to fix in the department. Because it is not only to introduce the gender perspective– and therefore the uniformity of this perspective has much relevance–, but also the diversity that exists in our society. We will also introduce a bias in the score in the event of empatation in favor of the person of the minor genere represented. This is a criteria that is allowed, that is allowed, and in these new oppositions of the year 2021 this criterion will be introduced. That's to say, in the event of empatation, the person of less genere will be favored. Many elements can be introduced: antiquity, age or so many others, and we think that this is a good element to introduce. We will also push, as well, campaigns of diffusion and communication to promote women's access to the Bomber Cos to end this extreme hardship that exists today. The Member spoke of it: prescribers, examples, models, references, are sometimes very important. Now we are living in a fairly intense way in women's sport, particularly, for example, in football, and it seems to us that it is a good way to act. So... push for campaigns of diffusion and communication to promote women's access to the body. We will also focus on actions to increase the visibility and presence of women in the body – of those who are, of the fifties, and of the many more that will be – showing examples of success, increasing female images in diffusion and communication. They are also campaigning to promote vocations – such as firefighters – between young people and adolescents, for example, at secondary education centres and also at vocational fairs that are at the end of each cycle at the Teaching Hall. To improve, too, the promotion, for another band, of the women in the body and to achieve more women leaders. Therefore, to promote that between the body the women are present to the tests in order to promote internally, that does not pass, and this seems to us to encourage it in some way, also facilitating – as the honourable Member refers to it – the working conditions in the case of lactation, in the case of pregnancy; in the matter of occupational safety, introducing temporary adaptations to the working places and also adapting the working work; incorporating the formation of genere to the people who conform to the Bombers Cos, not only to the women, but also to the conjunction of the organization – this perspective of genere in the formation that I have also made reference to. And also, from the general perspective of the department, introduce a coordination of policies of equality to the Department of Interior. It is a structural space that coordinates equality policies and from where are promoted the actions that they have to do with the feminization of the department. We don't just want to do winged actions, to go through balls, but to do a global and deep action with this perspective and this look, that security and emergencies can't just be about fifty percent of society, but they need to be done and ask the hundred percent of society. And finally, to improve the information about equality and the possibilities to integrate into the body in all spaces where people's access to the Bomber Cos is promoted – to the intranet, in those communications that they are making – because we understand that it's a lot and a lot needed. So yes, we want more firemen; yes, because it seems to us that this will improve the service. First, because he will do it more justly, because he will do it better – especially because he will do it better – and, therefore, we will work for more vocations. But we also want more firefighters in the commanding places, and therefore, we promote not only the incorporation into the body, but also, once between, the internal promotions to facilitate – facilitate – that it is possible and compatible to be a woman, to be a firefighter and to be a command between the body. We'll do it in the Firehouse, we'll do it across the side of the department, because it doesn't just seem fairer to us, but we'll do a few more things and a few more security and emergence services than we have at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.21.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Then the Member has the word, to make the reply turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.22.0	Well, it wasn't my intention to replicate, but I'd like to say a little thing that I don't want to stay in the tinter. We mentioned the firemen, we mentioned the commands. It is not only a matter of donating gallons, but of exercising power; of what influence does the Firehouse have and that they occupy these spaces to transform the commandments. Not only do they have the gallons, but they have the power to decide and do a lot better bombardment. We also talked about volunteer firefighters, and above all we talked about referents. And from here I'd like to have some words for a person who was a referent in the Bombers Cos: the first GREE, who left us fifteen days ago, the Emma Roca, who sure would be very proud... [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] She was a referent – the Emma Roca – not so alone in the world of bombers, but in the world of biochemistry, sport and many other things. Emma Roca is of those people, of those references we talked about, who opened the way for us to many of us. It was to say: "Ostres, if the Emma has been able, then so have we, too, right? And that's why I liked to talk..., to say: "Ostres, we need people to emmirate us and stop us on the way. So Emma ho's going to be. It was the first GREE to enter the Cos de Bombers. He left us a few days ago, and from here on out my record, and I speak for myself and for all the firefighters, too, who represent us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.23.0	Thank you very much. [[Question to the Government on criminal enforcement policy]] [[300-00026/13]] Let's move on, then, to the 14th item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government on the policy of criminal execution, which is presented by the Group of Joints for Catalonia. And you have the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mr. Joan Carles Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.24.0	Thank you, President. Counselrera, MPs, MPs... It's an honor to stare at the Parliament's Faristol and a responsibility that is more attractive to me when it comes to an intervention on our model of criminal execution, which I have lived from the base for thirty years of my life – I too, Mrs Picas, soc of the Mazinger Z era, you see. [[Rialles.]] The appearance he made, counsel, to the Justice Commission of the past day made it very clear that he respected his perception of the pillars to govern the prison execution of the Generality in his own years. In this sense, if I may, I will put his glove back and expose him to a couple of very concrete situations that are essential for me and for our party. One theme is formation and another theme is the theme of mental salvation. For what it does to training, we see it in two phases: the training of staff and the training of the residents, of the interiors of our prison centers. For what it does to staff, both in the incorporation phase and in the continuous training phase of all the professionals in the field. In this sense, we encourage you to give a special role – as you already had and should never have had – to the CEJFE. And we also encourage the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia to play an important role in the continuing training of our professionals. The formation of internals and internals of prisons such as the basic tool for absolvement and reintegration; academic and professional training to equip themselves with tools applicable to a future life in freedom. In this apartment we consider the involvement of the SOC and above all of the Sky necessary. Allow me, in this sense, to highlight the task of the production workshops of the Cire de Lleida, to Raimat, even though it takes an impulse to equip them with the necessary means of action. With regard to mental health, it is not possible to preserve that social reality ends up manifesting itself at juvenile justice and prison centres and, in many cases, more virulently than in life in freedom. Additions, routines, changes in vital spaces, etc., can lead to an increase in cases of people with mental health problems. There is an obvious coordination with public health services and medical services in prisons to enhance the treatment of these problems and to minimize their consequences, since if they are not treated and not controlled they can cause difficult problems of coexistence and security between prisons and juvenile justice establishments. Ms Miri, Counsellor, General Prison Law 1/79 – the first law of democracy – says in her first article: "The penal institutions regulated in the present law have as their primary objective the re-education and social reintegration of prisoners and measures deprived of liberty, and also the retention and custody of prisoners, prisoners and prisoners. This is the key to everything we're talking about: balance between reinsertion – catal model – rehabilitation of the internals – just like the Constitution – and custody. The balance of these two models makes arrests safe, let's say they can rehabilitate our interns. This catal model of reinsertion we believe should be based on four phone points. First: enhancement of the medium open as the vertebrating element of the reinsertion policy of the Catalan Administration both in prisons and juvenile justice. In this sense, I encourage him to visit the prison centres – as he is already doing – and especially the open centres, with special attention to the centre of Lleida and the centre of Barcelona, with its CIMO programme, an innovative programme and aim to Catalonia, Spain and Europe for which he does the initial classification of interns. There are individualized effective treatment programmes – the famous ITPs – ; protected treatment joints of internal and external pressures based solely on the professional criteria that form part, with active participation, of the CRIMOs of the centres; accompanying residents in basic daily activities – some, and all, advise, are not in a position to take the bus, to take public transport, and in this we must accompany them, we must be with them to ensure that situations as basic as these can develop with complete normality – ; basic labour training – we have already commented. Point number two: promotion and empowerment of workshops produced to Catalan prisons in order to create jobs of all necessary to adapt to a later life in freedom. Three: to continue with the magnificent task carried out for prison treatment teams in the follow-up, training and improvement of cognitive processes and internal/internal assessments, etc. And finally, point number four, get the template involved in this way of doing it. The implication of the template is the back key of the entire system, counselor. What's going on, this template implication? It goes basically to have clear, effective and realistic work instructions for a single purpose: to make compatible the preservation and defense of internal rights with the security of prisons. Some members of this Parliament will tell you that you will function as the centre of the country's criminal execution, regardless of the rights of the inmates. And some others will tell you all the contrary, that they should not be part of the decisions, since they have a vision of reality. According to my criteria, some of them are mistaken, he will advise: the official and the official must carry out the prison policies that are determined from the council, and precisely because of this they feel that they are an active part of the creation of these. Counsel, the country's criminal execution will be with its own and its professional ones or will not be. This is why we consider the negotiation of a new framework to be basic, since we have to bear in mind that the latest is the period 2006-2009, and, as you always say, has been very successful since then. Let's go back to the beginning. The basic tools of work are those that perfectly combine the rehabilitative function with the security function of the prison centers. Without an internal view that its reinsertion is possible there will be no security, and without serious security impossible policies aimed at rehabilitation and reinsertion. In this sense, we talked about the involvement of the staff. Now – you know better than anyone – they produce a series of conditions, a series of demands on the part of the staff, that make this involvement can be minimized. The conditions that the functional and prison plants in Catalonia currently determine are the greatest problem of our prison reality, and, unfortunately, have been reflected in the situations that are experienced in prisons and have been transcended by the media. The fundamental claims are: first, the consideration of the authority's agent. Look, counselor, we've talked about moves, firefighters... It's a paradox that squad movements, rural agents, midwives, take the view of agents of authority – they can suffer physical or verbal assaults by different people or collectius–, and the prison officer, who lives with people deprived of liberty by commission of crimes, who live with them for hours, months and even years, do not have this consideration as agent of authority. Believe me if I tell him that prison officers will appreciate his gesture in this sense, since it is a determining factor for security and coexistence between a prison center. Fortunately, situations of aggression are exceptional. However, when they produce, as the diluns passed to CP Quatre Camins, they require a firm response from the Administration to avoid a decrease in the figure of the function and to avoid the risk of a decrease in the security of the centers and the establishments. And here I want to make an incis to express our support, gathering and climbing to the employee assaulted saving to the prison of Quatre Camins. A second claim: the obvious lack of staff that is observed day by day in the different service turns has led to very unpleasant and dangerous situations in the past weeks, as we have mentioned earlier, and which have been reflected in the communication media. We live and experience a superpopulation of staff in second activities. It will advise, 50.25 of the prison staff is more than fifty years old. It's late. A template wrapped in direct contact with the imprisoned population, the realization of work turns and the multiple conflict situations that can be given between a prison and the feeling of permanent risk can lead to an increase in work casualties. In many cases, these situations are not supplied for us you would work and function, which involves a clear lack of staff. Cal, therefore, urgently seek consensus with Madrid to work together in retirement at the age of sixty of the prison professional collection. In this sense, there is a work report between administrations and unions that can serve as a basis for work and defence of this right. She was also concerned about the lack of a periodic public offer. They have 3,500 employees – more than nine hundred, in-house. There are unsolved transfer contests since the year 2010. This fact does not pass to other sectors of the Administration. We can't afford it. The Atri portal has become a substitute for opposition and translation contests. This is a problem that we need to solve urgently. And, finally, counselor, we know you're an appointed person. We value his predisposition to know the functioning of life in a prison. We warmly congratulate her on her decision to visit the prisons first hand – no one had done so before. We feel pleased for your courage in your decision making. We strongly encourage you to work together in criminal execution to treat the juvenile justice and prison environment as one of the pillars of your government policy. Working in the country's criminal execution does not give political answers, but it is a vital task for our concept of society. Let's put aside party tactics, then; the world of prison and juvenile justice and the country will grace it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.25.0	The words of the counselor of Justicia, Mrs Lourdes Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.26.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputy Garcia Guillamon, you made a very good X-ray of the situation of our penal system. And believe me 'but make me a special illusion that this intervention – also my first intervention from this Faristol in this house – continues to talk about the system of criminal execution in our country. I'm aware that the prison world is in a complex situation, huh? The difficulties caused by the covid-19 add to the demands of the staff for their working conditions and certainly lack of maintenance and investment in equipment. The Catalan criminal execution system is a public service of first order of times – often too – forgotten and silenced. We need to put the focus back, because it's social policy with capitals, because with it we focus on one of the weakest cases in our society: the internal people in the prisons and juvenile justice centers. And I want to break a lance, first of all, in favor of our arrests and the pocket we make. We have compromised public servers, which believe in their work, which is vital to facilitate the reintegration of internal people. I have already referred to the appearance, this past day, to the Justice Commission, this very week, here in Parliament, because I am firmly growing in a model of criminal execution based on rehabilitation and reintegration. A model, by other side, very much ours, which is not based on either punishment or punishment, and which, as you have explained, combines the balance of the right of internals and internals to start again and to reintegrate socially and work with work at times not highly valued by the public servants of our prisons and of our youth justice centers. A model that has to make a decided bet for the medium open, as you said, as the best tool of reintegration into society. Member, forty-four days ago today from my arrival at the council, and, therefore, to serve this country from the point of view of justice, and we have already taken some decisions that I think are not minor. First of all, I met with all the prison unions to get to know the demands of public servers. They have conveyed to me their concern for many shortcomings, some of them historical, with regard to working conditions and difficulties in some performance procedures. All complaints are legitimate – I have no doubt. We'll study them all. We won't rush, either, at the time of making decisions. We will study them with the firm intention and will of this council to find solutions to all the questions raised. Like I said, they're all legitimate and we'll work to meet them, ever since mutual loyalty and respect. And ask, yes, all the actors involved time to be able to appreciate and agree on those decisions that need to be made. I committed myself to visiting the juvenile justice and prison centres so that I could get to know their functioning firsthand. I have already made some of these visits, as you know, both to the Lledoners Prison Centre and to the Young Prison Centre. And, like I said, right? I've seen a lot of people compromise with their work, a lot of vocations, who esteem the office, with the will to improve. We took care of ourselves, we talked to the teams, with the heads of unit, with the heads of servants; we went into the kitchens, in the cells, in the fold; we saw prisoners. And I've been able to listen, in all these meetings, and see in situ deficiencies in human resources and materials that make the daily task difficult. Finally, tell him that, in this sense, we have decided to recover the Directorate General of Prisons and put him in charge of a person specialized in mediation and conflict resolution so that he leads a multipurpose team with objectives and new visions. We need to focus on the subject in a different way. Deputy Garcia and Guillamon, you have spoken enough of the work situation at the centres, and of the prison officials, who are public servants, that in the development of your task they can be submissive – - you have pointed it out – to situations of conflict and risk of verbal and even physical aggression, as we have unfortunately seen this week with sexual aggression to a worker at the Four Ways Prison Centre, who from here wants to condemn energetically and send all my support, as, in fact, we have done personally, through the Director General. We need to see how we can protect them better. We need to assess this possibility of having agents of the authority and how to do it. Thus, we have also found on the spot that we have a lack of staff, especially internal staff and professional treatment teams. We'll try to take advantage of all the opportunities we have to convoke new creation places. We need to work to convert transport contests into agile mechanisms, so as to facilitate the horizontal mobility of workers, and thus the stabilization of seedlings. Another of the problems that you have also pointed out and that we intend to correct with the speeding up of the selection and provisioning mechanisms is the enveloping of the template, to which you have also made reference, and it implies that we currently have a superpopulation of template in a situation of second activity. We have an enveloped staff, and this, added to the risks associated with their work, makes the increase in work losses a tangible fact, and we are very concerned. On the demand that we have also refused to make retirement possible in the sixties, as they already have other collections in the field of security, we will work to see to advance the retirement age together with the unions. We will, therefore, take advantage of the mark that gives us a very well-developed report of work between administrations and unions that has just been completed, and this is a matter that we will need to bring to Madrid and for which we will need the complicity of all the parliamentary groups of this chamber. There can be no suns, defending such an important theme. All these shortcomings that have been passed on to me by public servants, by people, we will have to deal with them in the negotiation, as you said, of the new prison staff working conditions agreement. The final agreement was in 2006, and since 14 there has been no update or change. He's done a lot of work, actually. The society has changed, the work has changed, the profile of the prisoners has changed. We need to catch up on a lot of things. We will therefore negotiate a new agreement on working conditions with the willingness to respond to our services and work systems, and, among others, as I have already said, the definition of the professional career of public servants in the field of criminal execution, the need for staff from the centres, the decrease in temporality and the renewal and rejuvenation of the seedlings. Another repte cabdal, the band. We need to improve the formatious processes not only of the staff, but also of people deprived of freedom. Therefore, we must promote and facilitate the continuous training of prison staff. We need a specialized and continuing training – you have pointed this out – and we need to optimize the tools and resources we have. Here, therefore, what does a very important paper have? The CEFJE – you have stated this – to make specialized training, and also, obviously, the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia. We have to count on this first-level tool, also the service of the officials of the Administration of Justice. And for what it does also to the formation of people deprived of freedom, we need to empower it. Reintegration into society will be much more effective if the internal or internal are released from prison with greater capacity to cope with reintegration into the working world. Training in line and in different prison centres simultaneously makes it possible to get to more internal and, at the same time, optimize their costs. We therefore need interns and interns to have sufficient tools to be able to adapt fully to life in freedom or in freedom. And this happens because when they get out they can believe a training and have internalized some work habits that allow them to face their professional activity outside the prison. Many of them are out of work, we have to work the work. This job training will be one of the themes that will be aged from the Centre d'Initiatives pour la Reinserción – el Cire –, a pioneering centre that allows us to enhance the resocializing function in the field of criminal execution. Thus, we will create a school of offices and jobs for the internal people of the residential modules, and implement and execute a digital transformation project in training classrooms and occupational workshops, and we will set aside a telematics work bag. The pandemic has shown that this digitization is a useful tool and that it facilitates and optimizes resources. Finally, you're afraid of mental salvation. It is a problem present in our society, accentuated by the confinements and which is among our centers – there is no exception. Therefore, we need to deepen our collaboration with the Department of Health, renew the agreement and deal with this specificity in the prison world and in the juvenile justice education centres. In fact, with the Honourable Counsellor Argimon we have already started talking and we have placed ourselves at a meeting with the Major patented with technical and professional. Unfortunately – to end now – in the last weeks we have had violent episodes or self-injuries to prisons, which are under investigation, and, as I understand it, I cannot go into detail. But these facts do allow me to make a final reflection, beyond the impact that upon entry it has produced on all folds. In Catalonia we have a model prison system in many respects, a system that guarantees the rights of internal and workers, but it is not perfect. There are locks that allow you to pass facts like those of the two last weeks. This is where we want to focus part of our efforts together with the Department of Health, as I said, to improve the physical, mental and emotional security of the internal and internal, but also of the workers who develop their tasks in prisons and youth centres. The prison environment deserves this focus. And I would like, before closing my intervention, to thank all the public servants of the Department of Justice and the Administration of Justice, because it is thanks to them and they that the gear works day after day, and especially in this past year, marked by this terrible pandemic, which has required a lot of effort. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.27.0	Let us then turn to the 15th item of the order of the day the question to the Government on the model of education, presented for the Parliamentary Group of VOX. [[Asking the Government about the educational model]] [[300-00027/13]] The words of Mr. Manuel Jesús Acosta, to make the presentation of the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.28.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Councillor, Mr Gonzalez..., the term "education" comes from the Latin verb "education", which, in addition to meaning "instructing, "growing, "creating", has another meaning when it comes to the third conjugation, which is « bringing out. Indeed, to educate is to help people's qualities and potentialities, specifically children's, to flourish, to the benefit of their personal growth in each and every dimension of the human person; that is, in the intellectual, emotional, social and transcendental. The most precious treasure we have parents are our children. For them we are able to sacrifice our life, our comforts, our personal projects... because their growth, in short, and their progress are our ultimate illusion. Of course, it is the parents who are the primary, immediate, responsible for their education, and who must exercise the inalienable right to choose the type of training we prefer for them. It is a basic issue of freedom, which supports common sense and natural law. Moreover, it is a right that is recognized in the Spanish Constitution, in spite of the Minister of Education, the socialist Mrs Celaá, for whom the children are the property of the State, according to the most rancid communist or fascist totalitarian canons. Mr Gonzalez, the education system in Catalonia is plunged into a very deep crisis, and if it is not solved quickly, we run the risk of « sinking– an antagonistic word to « educate–..., « sinking – I say again – definitely, already, the nothing flattering future of our children. The serious dysfunctions of the education model of the Generalitat are the result of policies that run counter to freedom, plurality, quality and gratuity. And these anomalies can be summarized on two levels: first, indoctrination – which has two aspects: ideologization and linguistic imposition – and the other level, precariousness in quality – in academic quality or in the quality of infrastructure and material resources, in general. First, in view of the ideology in school, encouraged by the Department of Education for a long time, I remind you that freedom is an essential right of parents to choose the education and training they want for their children. The Constitution provides, in article 27.3, that the public authorities must guarantee the right of parents to receive their children's education according to their own convictions – the convictions of the parents. So it is we, the parents, who must choose the moral and religious formation that we consider most appropriate for our children. In particular, the imposition of the Coeduca't programme or of compulsory sex education in the educational curriculum, which establishes the agreement of government between Esquerra and Junts and with the approval of the UPC, is a gross attack on the freedom of parents. The failure of these policies of affective education, which have been developing for a long time in Spain, is colossal, it is streptuous: sexual initiation increasingly early, compulsive consumption of pornography, increase of sexually transmitted infections, increase of cybercrimes and risky behaviors such as sexting or grooming, increase of pregnancies among adolescents... Mr. Counsellor, if you really are a staunch defender of freedom as you have expressed to us very recently, in your appearance at the committee last week, will you ensure that in public schools sexual training is voluntary, with different anthropological approaches, and always with the express consent of parents? And, in the case of private and concerted centres, will you ensure freedom to convey the vision of sexuality according to the educational project of each centre? Another aspect of ideologization is party indoctrination in Catalonia's textbooks. I will give you an example: in the field of knowledge of the medium, of the fifth and sixth primary, the knowledge of geography and history of Spain has been reduced so much that a student will hardly be able to reach the basic knowledge that, therefore, must be known for his age. And yet, they will receive all the knowledge established by the education council on the geography and history of Catalonia that correspond to their level. The differences between Catalans and the rest of Spanish are also highlighted in many of the topics discussed in these books, while what unites them is reduced or ignored. History is presented as a constant confrontation between Catalonia and Spain in which Spain always restricts freedom, traditions, customs, eh? , and the Catalan language. We never talk about positive actions, common projects, joint successes. Thus, many of the approaches contained in these books arouse a rejection, when I don't hate, of the Spanish and abhorrence of being able to share the same project of the future. Finally, political indoctrination in the school also acquires a pamphlet form through the exhibition of independent symbolism in schools, on the facades of schools: yellow bonds in the classrooms themselves, flags and separatist posters, claims of the October 1st coup in actions, documents, extracurricular activities... I brought you this book. [[the orator shows a book to the chamber]] which was presented last Tuesday, The school indoctrination in Catalonia, by Sergio Fidalgo and Antonio Jimeno. It's the tip of the iceberg, huh? , because of the lack of funds to be able to edit it, while other entities, therefore, enjoy fabulous amounts, colossal, to edit all their books and pamphlets and everything you want, where you can find many examples. The cover is pretty significant, huh? , plurality: three..., two stellates and the signet of all. Well, as far as linguistic imposition is concerned, it should be remembered that Catalonia has the enriching singularity of being a bilingual society, where Catalan and Castilian are official languages. This historical and social reality must be preserved and properly encouraged by the administrations. Article 3 of the Spanish Constitution states that Spanish is the official Spanish language of the State, as well as that all Spaniards have a duty to know the right to use Spanish. The Generalitat has declined its responsibility for the promotion and use of Castilian by applying an exclusive policy of linguistic normalization of Catalan in all areas of Catalan society, to the point of reducing our enriching secular bilingualism in a situation of diglossy in which the Castilian has been relegated to situations of inferiority, socially speaking, of orality in the family sphere. In addition, the Generalitat de Catalunya, contrary to article 32 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, has been implementing a linguistic policy of discrimination against Spanish speakers, also in school. True to its impoverishing sectarianism, the Generalitat cares very little that 55,6_per_cent of Catalans have Spanish as their language and that the second most spoken language in the world is Spanish. To set a single example in this regard, according to the report of the Assembly of 21 May 2019 by a Bilingual School, after the study of 2,214 language projects of public schools obtained thanks to the rules of transparency, 95_per_cent of the language projects of the public educational institutions of Catalonia state that only Catalan is a vehicle for teaching. Mr González, what steps will you take to comply with the recent judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia of 16 December 2020 and 23 March 2021, which agree to establish teaching in Spanish in percentages not less than 25_per_cent in matters of trunking in Catalan public institutions? Finally, regarding the precariousness of academic quality, I would just like to say to you that it is very worrying and that we have recent indicators that reflect this. But I will now focus on the precariousness of material resources, as well as their harmful management. In 2018, spending on education did not reach 3.7_per_cent of GDP, while the average for Spain was around 4.2_per_cent. An immediate consequence is that the 2021-22 course will start with 1,049 barracks – euphemistically called "non-structural prefabricated modules", thirty-six more than last year, in which some twenty_ thousand children will study. But, yes, in 2019 the Generalitat spent 110_million_of_euros on linguistic imposition of Catalan and 240_millions in the Mitjans Communications Corporation. Mr Gonzalez – I finish with this – I will give you a solution to this serious problem – moreover, respectful of freedom –: plan the school places by virtue of the demand of the parents, without limiting the choice of the center by zoning, and not the other way around. You plan lines and ratios, and then, once your proposal is closed, you offer. Ask parents first their preferences, and then do what you can to make it happen. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.29.0	Next comes the words of the Education Counsellor, Mr Josep González Cambray.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.30.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, MP Acosta... I'll talk to you about the Catalan education model. An educational model that obviously finds the antipodes of everything you defend, the antipodes of everything that VOX represent and defend. Our school model has some references like Marta Mata, Rosa Sensat, Joan Triadú and the teachers of the Republic School, which linked education with progress and freedom. Some referents who, of course, aren't yours. A school based on Republican values. And before I am outraged and accused of being a partisan, I will tell you that I do not refer only to the founding values of my party; I speak of universal republican values, based on freedom, equality and fraternity, on the common good; values that give answer to the equal opportunities of access to education because all children and young people, viscous and come from coming, have the same instruments to progress. When we speak of freedom, we speak of a freedom different from the freedom with which you fill your mouth. We want a freedom based on respect for diversity and others; the freedom to be who you are, to judge who you want, to be like you're not because you don't object to your hatred. And this respect-based education is one of the foundational pillars of our society. We want a different school, like the country. It is not possible to talk about freedom in school and focus on eliminating school areas and planning only in response to demand. Because, under the umbrella of freedom, defend elitist and outcast postures. They want to be able to sort the school so they can choose with whom they study and, above all, with whom they do not study their children. And this isn't even gonna be our model. The freedom of choice of the families that they often claim is a false freedom that only those who can afford it have, this false freedom under which they claim to be publicly funded a segregating model that continues to perpetuate inequalities. We, as the government of the country, will work because no one is left on the sidelines of the progress and well-being of the collectius. Education is the authentic social elevator, and we want everyone to have the chance to come up there. We will work for equity, to ensure equal opportunities; because diversity exists and enriches us, and it will not be unequal. I moved on last week to attend the Education Commission: we will push for a transformation of the democratic, social, sustainable, feminist and Catalan education system. We want an educational system that helps us to form critical citizens, because this is the best way to fight populism, fascism and fake news. I understand that some groups, like yours, do not like them, but our proposal reduces the majority feeling of our society, as expressed at the polls, a social transformation to ensure that all the children and young people of our education system in our country, viscous and come from where they come, have access to quality education, inclusive and equitable; a green education, conscious of the surrounding and territorially balanced; a democratic education, because we want centres that form in value and foster the critical experience and civic participation of the student. Those who accuse us of indoctrination are the same people who equate fascism with anti-fessism and pose the same masculinism and feminism. And look, no, it's not the same. We won't let the school get into any type of speech that makes apologia of hate. In fact, school is the first stone to advance to a country free of homophobia, free of racism and free of xenophobia. And yesterday in this Parliament all the less VOX – all the less VOX – we approved the declaration that Catalonia is a zone of freedom for LGBTI people. And a feminist education with a gender perspective, because in a moment where groups like yours deny evidence are more necessary than ever the co-education and presence of female references to the curriculum. A feminist school to fight racism, xenophobia, homophobia and any phonenal attack on who is or how he saw a person. And yes, we are firmly committed to sexual and emotional education, which has nothing to do with the sexuality that you say, years against: knowledge and respect for your own and your feelings for identifying and dealing with any aggression. That's the path. We have seen how you would like the parents to prohibit their children from talking about certain school fears, questions that need to be considered little suitable for the child. It's a clearly adult-centric view of reality. There's no need for infants and young people. They must have tools to have their own opinions about what happens around them. And that goes so far as to be able to talk about human rights, inequality, politics, different family models, sexuality. The school has to educate in democratic values because children and young people are living in cities free and with analytical and critical skills. Given the rise of populism and fascism, the school must be the antidote. A space, the school, we encourage critical experimentation, we can debate and we can form young people with them enough to fight the speech of hatred. School is a key element in our society, because it has the responsibility to form people who will improve our society in the future. By the way, who doesn't like the school talking about all these issues... neither do they get used to the pleasure of talking about historical memory. And we say, "Neither taboo nor dismemberment," "neither taboo nor dismemberment. And then there's a school in català. And not out of whims, but because that's why our legislation establishes it, despite the judicial offensive that you want to win at the courts that you can't win at the polls, that you can't win at the Parliament. And the linguistic reality of our country is not a dichotomy between català and castella. A hundred languages are spoken to the educational centres, because the students and their families come from a multilingual and multicultural context. The school's vehicle language is the catalá because it establishes Catalonia's law of education and because that's how he decided in this room. This is our model, an enriching and cohesive system. And obviously, they won't make us change. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.31.0	Then there is the word Manuel Jesús Acosta, in reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.32.0	Thank you, President. Mr Gonzalez, your attitude, your answers, your demonstrations have reminded me of the exercise of my teaching profession. Specifically, I have come to mind the usual reaction of the student who, when reprimanded, is corrected by his teacher, huh? , because, therefore, he was not working or distracting..., to himself or to others, he replied: "I have not been. Or, if I insisted a little bit more: "I alone, don't I? What about the others? All with the intention of diverting attention to another side. But, even if you are an advanced student in applying the classic sentence that throughout this year have picked up authors like Bacon or Beaumarchais, to which I quoted in another intervention..., which says thus: "Calumniad boldly; there will always be something, I would like to remind you that not for long before dawn does dawn earlier. I will repeat what I have said to you: the educational model of the Generalitat is in crisis for indoctrination, for the ideology and precariousness of quality as a result of the lack of freedom, plurality, gratuity and quality. I also tell you one thing that you have commented: I, with my taxes, finance the public school; therefore, this should be very clear. On the other hand, I have collected some of his judgments, and he says that l'éscola must be diverse, with the country. Obviously, so it should be; but it is not, because you indoctrinate in your ideologicalizing spirit – indoctrinate. And, if not... then you can see these posters that appear in many public institutes, in many public schools, from: « For a country of all, l'école en català. Here you go! Critic hope, which you were talking about, has to be kept in school? Is that having critical expertise? That we don't have to criticize, we don't have to be a little self-reflective and think that Catalan society is multilingual and that we don't all have a good eye to believe the one thought that certain policies, political parties, elites, etc. impose on us? No, huh? , critical experience is this, which is contradictory to this slogan of "For a country of all, school in català. Well, some example. Quality: "model of success, did you say? , success model, the Catalan school? Half of the future teachers do not have enough level to start their university studies of teaching. 4,236 students were presented and only 2,185 PAP tests were passed in 2021. You in an interview said not all are exams. Well, when a friend of mine is preparing for the administrative auxiliary oppositions... if he suspends, I'll tell him to go talk to you, see if it's all not exams. PISA 2018 report. In the latest PISA reports of 2018, Catalonia does not lead one of the three best results in science or mathematics. Moreover, it occupies the ninth, in terms of the territory of Spain, with regard to performance in global competition. School bars, I've already told you... : 1,049 barracks, which will also increase by thirty-six. Indoctrination. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, indoctrination, and I'm going to give you a case: the third book of the ESO of the editorial Barcanova includes expressions like this, which to me seems that this is indeed an apologia of hatred, eh? And if you don't, you can tell me, what do you think... The statue of Rafael Casanova is presented and the recent arrest of a group of people who went to leave some flowers and the subsequent demonstration of revulsion to such arrest is mentioned. Rafael Casanova, then, appears as the leader of a secessionist movement, when in reality – I don't know if you know it, but I will explain it to you– Rafael Casanova, as representative of the highest authority of the city of Barcelona, what he wanted is for the King of Spain not to be Philip V, but the Archduke Carlos, in the conflict that had a national and also international dimension. Well, I could quote you more examples of hate advocacy in many manuals, but I simply remind you that freedom is a concept that consists precisely in this, in what you do not agree: in being self-critical, to say what we believe and to act according to what we think. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.33.0	Then has the word, in the turn of reply, the councillor, Mr Josep González Cambray.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.34.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, I appreciate the vivid personal contributions you've shared and the history lessons, but I don't see much of what we're talking about; in any case, I've listened to them. You always have your mantles, you always have your mantles, but I tell you and I'll always tell you: for a lot of insisting and repeating a situation that's not happening, for a lot of making false statements, that's not going to turn into truth, it's not going to happen. In the case of language, for example. The data from the tests of basic skills that have taken place in this course both at the primary – at the schools – and at the Institutes tell us that our pupils have a very similar degree of linguistic knowledge in Catalan as in Castilian. You repeat mantras, you repeat repeatedly some categorically false statements respecting a supposed indoctrination in the classrooms. They talk about adoption and alleged persecution, and they don't even pose red when, for one band, they tell us that, and the next minute they are dedicated to publicly reporting journalists, humorists or any other collection; or, without going any further, yesterday, in this room, directly threatening the President of the Government. All the support to those whom you designate for purely ideological reasons. All the support. « Leave ideology out of the centers, they say. But no, you don't bother them, you do ideology in the classroom; in fact, they promote it there where they rule. Because what you do, make national anthems sound before the king's picture every morning, that's not ideology... And it's returning to a few dark times in this country. They say that they do not want, repeatedly, that ideology enters the classrooms of the country, but it is false, it is definitely false. The one that bothers you, the one that really bothers you, is that I'm a city schooler with criticisms and cults, and that I'm a schooler, above all, I think I'm a young city schooler with proper criteria. Because culture and education are the instrument that fights against the populisms and faixisms that their party represents. And so, from here on, our commitment to a democratic, social, sustainable, feminist and Catalan school; a school that fights against any kind of discrimination and inequality. And yet another: not a step back on the bet of emotional and sexual education. The training you do at the school on affective and sexual education meets all the quality criteria. Allowing family censorship is not trusting professionals. Moreover, if these school themes are not addressed, many young people will grow up to have only their own family model as referents, which in some cases can be hard to perpetuate clearly masculinist and homophobic models. If you see attacks on freedom, we are betting on fairness; if you see impositions, we are equal opportunities; if you see indoctrination, we are educating; if you see threats to the president of this government, we are not a step in the defence of human rights. In short, education, education and more education, because it is the best antidote to combat populism, fascism, homophobia and all that ultradress represents. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.35.0	Thank you. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the Catalonian dialect]] [[302-00009/13]] Let's move on to the seventh item of the order of the day, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the dialect for Catalonia, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. In order to expose her, has the parable of Mrs. Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.36.0	Counselor, deputies and deputies, good morning again. Well, we've been asking the government about the Catalonian dialogue, and today we're introducing this young man. She's a clear, simple young lady, and she makes it very clear what our position is in relation to the dialect we need in Catalonia. There's been a lot of talk these days about this issue. We have always given support and, moreover, we have pushed this table between governments, between the Government of the Generality and the Government of the State. It seems to us that it is important that we can talk, that we can talk about everything, and that we try, within our cohabitation framework, to reach the appropriate agreements in better and for the benefit of the citizens of Catalonia and, obviously, also of Spain. Now, we say that the conflict is not only between Catalonia and Spain, there is also a conflict between Catalans. And not seeing this is also obviating a reality that is evident in Catalonia. We don't all think alike in many areas, it's true, but in Catalonia and Spain's case it's obvious that we don't have the same position. There are independenceists, many, but there are no independenceists, many, also in Catalonia. Not everyone thinks the solution has to be the same. And even when we talk about the reference, which is often placed on the table as the great solution, in the last questions that have been made – in concrete terms to the Institute of Political and Social Sciences of the Autonomous Region – it appears, therefore, that the reference is so alone..., or just the twenty-three percent of Catalans find the best solution to resolve the conflict. We have always said that we Catalans speak among ourselves, that we have a sincere and honest dialogue to find those points in common that make us move forward and allow us to defend them before the Government of Spain. That's what we believe, because we don't all think alike. This was the year 2018 when this chamber approved a resolution proposed by the Socialist Group, in which it proposed the establishment of a table of Catalan parties to speak, to work, to train – which made yesterday the deputy Vilalta – among us to search for those common points. It was approved. That resolution was voted in favour by the commons, the Socialists and Units for Progress Parliamentary Group, the Junts Group and the D'Esquerra Group. There were four major groups in Parliament, 89 votes in favour which made that committee constituted, chaired by President Torra, and which had a couple of meetings. It seems that, today, this text, which is almost the same, identical to what was approved in 2018, will not have the support of the groups that support the Government. Honestly, we don't understand. We don't understand how parties, especially Left, are flagging the dialog, do we? And we believe that it is true, and that we believe that it is certain that they want to go this way – and it is true, and we believe that it is true, and that we believe that it is true that they want to go this way – to start a new stage without forgetting – obviously, without forgetting – the last two years, without forgetting what has happened... It is obvious that no one can forget it, no one can fail to defend what defense, only missing, but we do not understand how today, that the situation we believe is better – that it is a little better, if they allow me to do so – so you do not want us to be able to speak in a table, the Catalan parties, of those themes that can affect us, implicate us all in a majority. It seems to us that when you speak of fifty-two per cent, you are oblivious of forty-night, and if you speak of forty-night, you are oblivious of fifty-two. It would be good to find those fears, those ambits, those concerns that affect the eighty or seventy-five or the north. And we believe that we can only secure this in a table, all the Catalan parties, to find the best solutions. Not one, but probably many and diverse that may be there. And with a dialog, so, there's a negotiation, there's resignations, there's divestitures, and obviously, not everyone can get in the same way they got out. But I do think the dialog also enriches us like society and I think we should go this way. We do not understand, therefore, the ideas that you propose to us to make a table, to make a pact of those who think in a certain way – only of those who think..., and those who are in favor of amnesty and self-determination. Therefore, we did not accept the papers. I wanted to end with a sentence from Vice President Junqueras about the dialog, which I liked very much, which I read from him in an interview. He said: "Dialogue and negotiation are essential. The political conflicts that have been resolved either late or by the hour, around a table where all parties freely expose their positions. Well, we want to be in a table with all the Catalan parties so that each one exposes its positions. We try to find among all those points that unite us to try to build, advance and add. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.37.0	Next, and to defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, the deputy Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.38.0	Thank you, President. Well, we reproduce a little the debate that we had yesterday after the appearance of President Aragonès, and for us, from Comú Pode, it is clear: this must be the legislature of the dialect and of the solutions. Actually, we've been talking about freedom, dialogue and solutions for a long time. And I think we need to stop Catalonia from..., moving from pyrotechnics, from policy of declarations, to policy of parties and policy of transformations. And I think I'd be better off with the country if we had the same speech, or tried to have the same speech we do in public than we do in private. And I think one of the things that's probably been going on for the past few years in Catalonia is that there's been a lot of difference between what we say in private about how we move forward with the country to, then, the speeches that are being made in public. And we also believe that we need to take care of and preserve the dialog and take advantage of the opportunity that exists – and we believe that it obviously does – first with the pardons and then with the dialog table. Because we understand that Catalonia needs victories. They need to win, they need adventures with the country and they also need alliances. I also say this with sound envy, that when someone sees, for example, Francina Armengol, Ximo Puig, you see, for example, Monica Oltra, or you see, for example, Juan Pedro Yllanes working folds to advance the Valencian country and the Balearic Islands, so I believe, right? ...,sometimes a question is where is the president of my country and why not Catalonia forms part of this..., which is also speaking, also, of the Commonwealth Mediterranean, or of this Mediterranean alliance to advance, before centralism, nationally also Catalonia. We basically believe that we need to move forward from the dialog, with consensus that exists. And that doesn't mean, in any case, to give up the fields that we also have and share. Our proposal for the State, obviously, is a state... a republic, a plurinational state, where obviously it is to recognize the right to decide, as we have always defended, the reference. But now we're in the air and today and we need to take advantage of this opportunity through the dial table. And we believe that there are five consensuses that are clear and that are fundamental. The first is to continue to move forward in the judicial process – our president said yesterday too –, to put an end to the rule of justice and to move on to politics. And this has to do with the fact that the next step that we think we need to face and that we will also place at the table of the dialog is the reform of the Criminal Code and, obviously, the reform of the crime of siege. The second element in which we believe that progress can be made is with the national recognition of Catalonia. This I think is clearly wrong..., when we talk about the breach of this territorial pact of 78 is because, obviously, the feeling of the State is, in short, what represents this denial of the national recognition of Catalonia and is, in the end, an anomaly: that we are the only or only territory of the State that has a state voted for its citizenship that has been retaliated by the Constitutional Court. Therefore, the third step or the third element of consensus is: armoring the skills of our self-government and advancing in self-government; obviously, to achieve more rights and to improve the lives of the citizens of Catalonia. And a fourth element, which is fundamental: that if we want to advance in rights it is obvious that we need more resources, and here we need a new funding system. But to have a new financing system you have to want to negotiate. And it cannot be outsourced, this negotiation, neither to the Valencian country nor to the Balearic Islands. Catalonia must be the protagonist of this negotiation of the new financing system. Because while we didn't do anything, things were going on. Because when we talk about finance it is also talking, for example, about what Mrs. Ayuso and Mr. Feijóo are proposing, which they want to follow with the dynamic of lowering taxes and, obviously, generating an unfair competition with the rest of the territories of the State. For example, talking about a new financing system also means being able to talk about how we avoid it in the fiscal sphere or how we end up, for example, with the tax haven in which Mrs Ayuso the Government of Madrid has converted. And finally, that this agreement that comes out of the dialog table remains voted in reference to the assembly of the citizens of Catalonia. And that's why we think you felt this dialog table at the level of the Catalan parties and in Catalonia, because before a state that many times acts with centralist dynamics, before the centralist proposal of the People's Party or of Help, as a Catalan alliance that can still defend these consensuses. In short, as at the time it was able to build President Maragall, a country proposal, not a party proposal. It is, in short, what we understand to be pure Catalanism popular of the 21st century and, therefore, it is what we believe to be defending from Catalonia. And I left a pendola: regret that our attempt was not accepted to reject the strategy, in this case, of the People's Party, VOX and Ciutadans against the pardons and to end the judicialization of politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.39.0	Thank you. Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mònica Sales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.40.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, Members, today we are debating a motion on the Catalonian dialogue proposed by the PSC group. And, of course, as Mrs Romero said, she is a brief, unusual young man for patenting, with a clear and concrete paragraph, who was given a joint mandate that has not been accepted, which urged the Government of the Generality to push for a national agreement for self-determination and amnesty. As they don't know why we're doing this, we'll explain it to them. Because on the 14th of February the Catalan people was expressed in a democratic way at the polls with a clearly independent vote to advance Catalonia towards freedom in the form of a republic. A compromise that we have previously acquired in a historic urn day that marks our destiny as a country: an October 1st victory and a democratic mandate that will take us forward. In the wake of this post-election context, which counts on a 50-per-cent history of the independence vote, the leadership to address the issues related to the Catalonian dialect went much further than the presidents of parliamentary groups – all of them, obviously, except those who advocate fascism, day and day too –; it crosses the lines of political forces to tie themselves to social fabric, the pale of paller that has underpinned the cause of independence, day and day, and the support for the long list of reprisals. They know that the government has established other mechanisms to talk about the questions you ask. They know that the government has approved the agreement with the appointment of the Generality to the bilateral commission. And they know that I counted a point in which before every finding there will be interaction with parliamentary groups. Besides, this Parliament is the house of the word, which is the sovereignty of the Catalan people, that of 52 and that of 48. And we place them here to discuss all the issues that they think are appropriate to find agreements for Catalonia to face a very difficult situation marked by the substracism of the pandemic. Here we are, add, delete, debate whatever you think and compare points of view to find agreements. So, what we need and what we are defending is this national agreement for self-determination and amnesty and no more inventing from jails after the vivid experiences. Now you will take advantage of this motion to tell us that we do not want to talk, and you know that you will not tell the truth, because even with scepticism, from Junts we have accepted a table of dialog that is not just to talk, but to negotiate, that until today it has reaped little fruit: a photo and little more. From Juntas to Catalunya, we work with the will to build a parliamentary and government work that will allow us to rebuild the country and transform it into every sense, with people at the centre of day-to-day politics and with the conviction that we can come to an agreement. But keep in mind that this compromise is inextricable from what we have with independence, with the defense of civil and political rights and with the complaint to combat repression. You and your common partners in Madrid talk about concord when they really want to talk about submission; they talk about dialogue when they really want to talk about that teaching session, because they tell us what we have to do, what we don't have to say, what we have to say, as we have to say, when we have to say, and they agree when they really want to talk about imposition. This country has already chosen its path: the path of individual and collective rights and freedoms. And no, as far as I'm concerned, it'll make us go back. The Junts don't give up, not even when the most progressives in history threaten us with conditional and reversible. We will continue to raise our eyes here and on foot, we will continue to work from exile to achieve victories that show who rules in Madrid: a state that has granted some pardons by force, because they know that the reason is coughing and that Europe reminds them well. Perhaps they think that we believe that the pardons are the fruit of the dialog and that now the reunion must be idyllic. But they know that pardons are precisely the fruit of a monologue, the monologue of European justice that practices on Spanish justice, and that it can never be a dialect because languages are antagonistic. European justice speaks of the language of reason and objectivity, and Spanish justice speaks of the language of flesh and subjectivity. And it is impossible to understand 'if they are to prepare for the reverse that they are yet to come. Great country issues, yes, with established mechanisms. Great country consensuss, yes, but inseparable from the same consensus that there is around self-determination and amnesty to be an independent state in the form of a republic, free from any sort of bias that wants to make policy and along with those authoritarian policies with progressive disguise that do not let us vote. As much as they repeat that Catalonia has a conflict between Catalans, it will not be true. Amnesty, be of repression and self-determination. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.41.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.42.0	Thank you, President. Yes, Mrs. Romero, you've rejected a charge, you're very clear, aren't you? : to deconstruct, deny, dilute the conflict between the Catalan institutions, the Catalan society and the State, that same state that rejects, until now, any consideration of Catalan aspiration. And at the same time they seek, they want to replace this conflict with a claim of coexistence between Catalans. When you – and certainly also, as we have just listened to the commons – set the table of parties in Catalonia, send us an explicit message: the only question to deal with the State is the margin of action to which we can aspire from the limits that you yourself attach to the current Constitution. Certainly – by the way – do they realize that VOX has become the best guardian, the strictest and most rigid of the Spanish Constitution? Do they realize that they have managed that the Constitution of 78 is now almost exclusively the Constitution of VOX, PP and Citizens? It's pretty terrible, but that's it. You say to us: "First resignation, then we speak. They won't get mixed up. The Catalan society will not fall in the obvious parany that you offer it. They are only trying to escape from the only territory that will allow the real exit to the conflict, the dialogue and the negotiation on very tangible issues, which are, at the same time, the expression of legitimate rights and aspirations of the social and political majority of Catalonia. The parties, Mrs Romero, are not the Catalan parties. The shares are the Spanish State and Catalan institutions and Catalan society. As President Aragonès said earlier: "Now is the time to reactivate the work of the negotiating table. An area of government-to-government negotiation, which lacks the recognized existence of a political conflict and which must culminate with the referendum vote of the citizenry. They cannot avoid the sorghum majorities of the people, as you claim. We cannot deny that in this Parliament there is an independent majority of fifty-two per cent. His table of matches he claims is to dispense with this democratic evidence. Mirin this book – Mrs Romero, I recommend it. It's a book that just came up, too, the president of his group, Mr. Illa, I understand, and of all the others. And I'm looking at the list of authors and themes that you're looking at. It is entitled Catalunya-Spain: from conflict to political dialogue. And here you're editing it? It is edited by the Government of Catalonia. The edition of the Centre d'Etudes de Temas Contemporanis, ascribed to the Department of External Action, which has become an object of judicial and economic repression, for sure. It's the best evidence of what we want to say when we day out. There will be all the voices, the accents, the contrasts, the debate in independence, that of Catalonia, the debate in Spain, the debate in Europe. I ask this to you, Mrs Romero: at your hands you decide whether you want to exercise as an active part of political Catalanism, sharing the great consensus of the country, that is, amnesty and self-determination, intervening and adding to this debate, or prefer to continue accepting this sad role of "the voice of your master of delegates from the State to Catalonia". How is it possible, for sure, that Catalan socialism has been set up in this vocation of messengers of por, that four years ago they only know how to warn and threaten the consequences that can be derived if we insist on acting as free citizens, as we are born, as the political subject that we want to exist as such. Saying it another way, a few days ago everyone was looking at the saying and not the moon. The image was not in high school, the image was in Madrid, where the united independence presented 200,000 signatures in favor of the current consensus of the country, i.e., of amnesty. It is clear that the president will meet with parliamentary groups and their presidents, starting with his group, which is the main opposition group. But make it clear, the game table already exists, it's this chamber. Or do you want me to send you the immense success of national pacts that have been formed on the initiative of the government and thanks to the work of this chamber, beyond the majorities of one moment or another? That's the way to work here. Now, governing means not just managing the present – you know perfectly well –, approving assumptions or drafting laws, it's not just that. Governance means drawing a future for this country, it means rethinking the economy, education, health, industry, institutions. And, yes, it means extending and never removing the hand of the dialogue with the government, with the state, with Europe. Certainly, more than two-thirds of the citizens that they do are betting for the reference as the best instrument to decide. We formally propose them, so – to conclude, Mrs Romero –: to incorporate into the National Accord for Amnesty and Self-Determination. Adding, participating, bringing argument; it is the table that must express the maximum consensus around the two great questions: the amnesty, understood not only as the framework of the general cause, but also as the recognition of rights, and the free decision on the political and institutional future of Catalonia, a decision adopted for the citizenry mediating the popular vote. I ended up with a sentence from Mr. Iceta. "In an advanced democracy," said Mr. Iceta, "the references to self-determination must be made and made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.43.0	Sir...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.44.0	Naturally, we will vote against your proposal. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.45.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mr Dani Cornellà. [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] It looks like you're going to be Mrs. Dolors Sabater's deputy. I was told it would be Mr. Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.46.0	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Romero, your young lady made me think of the Greek cynics, so little concerned about politics and so much about his hedonism. You present this young man as a patina, to make a patina to rent his consciousness, if it is left to them. Frankly, this young man is the only one who wants to validate some words, some words that you have deeply perverted: "dialog and" great consensus. « Dialeg, they say. You're standing now, with this young man, in defense of the dialog and, to begin with, you haven't even gotten in touch with us to talk about the fear we sent you for this young man. They say dialog, and they know what dialogue is? Dialoging is discussing an assumption or a problem with an intention, the intention to arrive at a solution, an agreement or find a solution. Not with the intention of eliminating one of the options, which is what you are looking for. You're looking to delete one of the options. And making a reference is a strictly democratic solution to decide between two counterposed options. It is very simple: the people decide by voting and the results of which the people vote apply. It is said democracy, Mrs Romero. And this democracy is defense, which is the correlation of forces, lords of the commons. The solution is not to make a brain rent for millions of Catalan independenceists. The solution is not to force them to remove the independence option from their mind. Because this is not solved with disinfectants or removing pages from history. Democracy has to give the word to the people. And you should be the banner of democracy, you should recognize the right of self-determination, give the view to the people and accept it. They're talking about big consensuses. Who? Because we have a split society, that's right. We have it divided into two bands: in the bandol of the exploited and in the bandol of the exploited; in the bandol of the repressed and the repressed. There is the team of great fortunes, the oligopolises, the unscrupulous team that exploits the lives of workers and workers and that employs resources to enrich and impoverish the lives of most people. It is the team that imposes 135, that has made life impossible for so many people; the team of elites, the team that renders "the monarchy's lawsuit, that is the direct thread that the bloody Franco dictator left connected and well connected with this transition. You're on this team. But there is the team of the great majority, the team of the north-five and the north-nine percent of the people who struggle daily to sustain life, to support the basic rights and that, although you and the commons have not repealed the law bite, which makes life impossible to make this protest, this team, that of the north-nine percent, is not yielding. You, despite the fact that you have been working and republishing for many years, have been disbanded at this banner, the banner of the elites. They're just rule of 78, they've forgotten the principles of democracy and that's why they're not ashamed of..., or alert them that what they're defending are the same, identical arguments that VOX, that PP and Ciutadans. They don't care to take photos and validate the extreme right, they don't have complexes. As soon as they made 135 as 155. And, listen, we are very clear: you left a great consensus of country, which was the right to decide, the year 2013. We have said to them, with the thought that we have presented to them: "The Parliament urges the Government of the Generality to promote a great national agreement for self-determination and amnesty with broad and plural political, institutional and social participation that becomes a follow-up framework, monitoring and evaluation of the dialogue table and negotiation between the Catalan Government and Spanish, debate and promotion of joint initiatives in order to combine the exercise of the right with self-determination and amnesty. This is where we are, by democratic radicality. And, therefore, we will vote against your young lady. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.47.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Then, to fix its position, has the word "VOX Parliamentary Group". It will be Deputy Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.48.0	Thank you, Madam President. Socialists, in this motion you are talking about dialogue. And look at you, yes, we are for dialogue; on many issues: on infrastructure, on taxes, on public services, on educational freedom; not on whether Spain exists or not, because it exists more than five hundred years ago and we cannot break either our common history or our coexistence. No dialogue on crimes: there is no negotiation with criminals. I am engaged in mediation, and in mediation you can talk about everything; moreover, it is the best system for resolving conflicts. But one can never mediate about a crime, because that is what the Criminal Code, the reintegration systems and the re-education systems have to do. In democracy, as Maragall also said, the tables of dialogue are the legislative chambers, this and Congress, not those tables you want to go to, which are tables of betrayal. Can we talk about reducing superfluous expenses? Of course we can, we can talk about reducing superfluous expenses. Can there be negotiations and dialogue on bonuses or the abolition of inheritance tax? Of course we can talk. Or about public health, whether it should cover more benefits? Yes, we can talk. What about the expansion of the airport? Of course we need to talk. Can you negotiate and talk to a murderer? No, no, Can you negotiate with an unrepentant hacienda defrauder, like you? No, no, Can we negotiate and dialogue with those who want to break our coexistence, our legal order and want to divide us? No, definitely not. You, separatists and socialists, want to turn your back on a drowned Spain, want to deepen the inequality between Spaniards with more regional skills and more resources for those who already warn that they will do it again; more resources and skills for those who persist in leaving Catalonia in two and will organize another coup d'état, as in 30, as in 2017, and as they already threaten to do it again. There is no conflict between Catalonia and the State, it is radically false; the political conflict exists in Catalonia because of those who commit themselves, as I said, to breaking in two – yes, to breaking in two. This is the conflict and this is what we are going to fight with quarrels – yes, with quarrels – and with proposals, with our exciting project of a Catalonia, of a united Spain, with equality and coexistence for all Spaniards. And, look, the other day I was wondering about a journalist who would define the PSC. And it occurred to me "the ever-changing party, the PSC is the Guadiana party." And I'm going to give some examples: anti-democratic pact, anti-VOX pact. First they sign it, then in talks they tell us that it's over, that they don't care, that it's really not democratic and that we represent a lot of voters. But then they quote again when they are interested in sharing the chairmanships of the committees and staying with us, for that they have the anti-VOX pact again. But then they say that we must make a motion like today, saying that we must invite all the parliamentary groups, also us; but yesterday they tell us that they cannot accept our amendment on an economic motion that makes a lot of sense, because, of course, "what the rest will say, what our friends the separatists will say, that we have left them. They are not clear – they are not clear. But it's not the first time they've seen their boats. The other day Josep told me in l'Hospitalet: the socialists are the..., I can't say the word here. I'm the lemon pear. Because in the electoral campaign they go to the neighborhoods where Spanish is spoken to say that bilingualism is very good, but then here in the chambers they ratify the linguistic immersion, the Catalan's obligation to read and write to those children who do not know how to speak Catalan, and they also agree with the linguistic imposition to those who label them for labeling in Spanish. It's just that they're not clear, it's just that, really, it's more defachable? – Is it more defachable? It's a matter of outrage to yourself, honestly. Maragall has already delivered a famous speech. Since they quote Junqueras and people and they're quoting each other, I'm going to quote Pasqual Maragall. He gave a famous speech in which he said: « The new Statue will replace the Constitution, and that the Spanish State no longer existed in Catalonia. That's his policy: swing, swing – the Guadian party. They break the equality between the Spaniards they claim to be defending, and they have become totally the crutch of separatism. That is why many of their voters now vote for VOX, for the unity of Spain, because they want equality between Spaniards, for territorial and interterritorial solidarity, because they want to control immigration, for the search for security in the neighborhoods, for not facing women against men and believing in domestic violence, for the national priority and defense of our work against the globalization that sacrifices our workers. Socialists, you have given pardons to some coupsmen, and the Catalan people will not forgive you. Citizens see in VOX a great hope and an illusion, and we represent those who want to feel a Spain united between equals and prosperous for all. Obviously, we will vote no. Thank you very much, and good morning. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.49.0	Next, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ignacio Martín, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.50.0	Thank you, President. Well, today we have a motion from the Socialist Party which speaks of a table of dialogue between Catalans. The truth is that the concept is attractive to us. Indeed, Catalans have to talk to each other, because what there is, as you more or less come to say, is also a conflict between Catalans. You say « also, but there is certainly no conflict between Catalonia and Spain. To me this conception of accepting that nationalist nomenclature that there is a conflict between two entities that can be perfectly countered, which are Catalonia and Spain, seems to me to be at the basis of many of the problems that we have in Catalonia. Indeed, in Catalonia there are problems, there are various problems, and one of them is the problem created by the nationalists in Catalonia, basically because they are committed to separating Catalonia from the rest of Spain. Our vote on this motion will be..., our position will be a abstention, because we believe that the debate between Catalans should take place at this table, in this Chamber, in this Chamber, in this Chamber, in the Parliament of Catalonia, and also in the General Courts, in Parliament, in the Congress of Deputies. Unfortunately, we regret that the Socialist Party too often accepts the mental framework imposed by the separatists, imposed by the nationalists, when they tell us that there are a number of historical consensuss of Catalanism. Look, I think we have to challenge, once and for all, the idea that there are historical consensuses, consensuses that Catalan society takes on in an eighty_per_cent. I believe that, if you really want to talk about what is happening in Catalonia, we should talk about the damage that is, for example, such an unjust, unjust system in a society like ours, such as Catalan society, a bilingual society, such as the model of linguistic immersion. We believe that it is essential to talk about things. We believe that it is essential to open the debate on certain issues, but not in terms of wanting to reach a consensus in Catalonia, and then to go all together to Madrid and present to Madrid the memorial of grievances or the memorial of turns to say that from Catalonia we have this position that is opposed to the position of Madrid. No, not at all. I believe that Catalan society needs a much more pluralistic dialogue, much more diverse, much more courageous, in that dialogue in which you, the Socialists, the Socialists, assume that many of your voters believe that we should indeed open the debate on the so-called "linguistic immersion", on that monolithic model of education in Catalan. We believe that education in the so-called "Catalan school" should be bilingual, trilingual, but at least bilingual. We believe that it is essential that these supposed consensuses be challenged, those supposed consensuses that do not benefit the citizens of Catalonia at all. I believe that the Socialist Party – we have seen it today, with the interventions of the different separatist groups – is too often intending to content or, at least, reconcile with the separatist parties, so that they will then receive all kinds of improvisations, all kinds of insults. Comrade Moreno was telling me now, well, let's avoid insults. I don't think anyone needs to tell me to avoid insults, because I've never insulted anyone at all, anyone in this chamber. But, indeed, you have on too many occasions received insults similar to those you pour on the rest of the constitutionalist parties. They are considered, at any time..., when they do not assume these supposed consensuss that they, the separatist parties, say of Catalan society, will also be called « fascists, « facs and all those things that the nationalists say to those who do not share their dogmas. I have seen a President of the Generalitat, Mr Montilla, head, in my opinion shamefully, a demonstration against the Constitutional Court. I don't think it's normal for a president of the Generalitat to lead demonstrations against the Constitutional Court, and I've seen him walk away practically from that demonstration. I sincerely believe that the Socialist Party should be courageous and take on a rational dialogue about what is happening in Catalonia, a dialogue that is truly balanced and that does not take on as much, as they often do, those postulates, those dogmas of the separatist parties. I think there are many things we could certainly agree on, but I think Catalonia needs to put aside the sanitary cords, it needs to put aside the Tinell pacts. For example, when the Statute of Autonomy was adopted..., the reform of the Statute of 2006, started from the basis of a Tinell pact that at that time excluded the People's Party. I sincerely believe that Catalonia needs a sincere, open and much more rational dialogue, much less based on essentialist, identity criteria, which is what the nationalists propose. And I think that a socialist party worthy of that name would have to be able to address that debate in those terms in Catalonia and then with the rest of Spain, but we will never participate in that claim to reach a monolithic position in Catalonia to go and present a memorial of grievances to the Government of Spain. That will never be our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.51.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.52.0	Thank you very much, President. We're back with the word so pretty, aren't we? , dialogue. Who cannot be in favor of dialogue? I, in that sense, must say that in order to dialogue my phone is available to the 134 colleagues of the Parliament – all, without exception – and, of course, we dialogue and can talk about everything without any problems. Dialogue there are many ways to deal with it, there are many ways to see it. The problem is when the word ‘dialogue' is used as a lure for other objectives. We will not be able to support this motion for a number of reasons, although we recognize some qualitative change in the SGP approach that is to be appreciated. The first is the explicit recognition of the existence of a conflict here, between Catalans. The PSC has not always entered and accepted that language, which is authentic; it has fallen too often, indeed, within the mental framework of separatism. The second one that has surprised us positively is that there is a statement calling for all parliamentary groups without any kind of health cord. That's very good. Now, if you raise those changes that are to be thanked, why don't you do that at Sánchez's table, which is precisely the opposite, which forgets the non-separatist part of Catalonia, which explicitly denies that there is a conflict between Catalans and accepts the rhetoric of the Spanish versus Catalan conflict? In that sense, voting in favour of his motion would mean whitewashing Sánchez's table, and we are not going to do that. It is also surprising – not in the text of the motion, because it is very brief, but yes yesterday during the debate of the control session – that they make a claim of the table that called Torra in relation to which, it seems, does not want to call Pere Aragonès. I am surprised that I am shocked, because I was summoned to that table, and I was summoned in a writing where an agenda was already raised that said: that the issues to be dealt with were amnesty – which does not fit in our legal system–, self-determination – which does not fit..., only fits the former colonies, according to the UN – and the concept « political prisoners» in Spain there are no political prisoners. Obviously, with that agenda I wasn't going to go. You were, by the way, on that agenda – on that agenda. Don't claim that to me, because you're leaving yourselves, at last, with the shame in the air. And finally, they do not specify some important issues in that short paragraph. Any instrument must be parliamentary. Light and stenographers. There are too many ghostly and opaque artifacts in Catalonia, such as the Consell per a la República, the Sánchez negotiating table with the Government of Catalonia, apart, by the way, from all kinds of democratic control. If you want to repeat the same thing out of the light and stenographers here in Catalonia, emulating what Sánchez is doing for the whole of Spain, I'm sorry, but we can't support it. In short, you cannot, Socialist Party gentlemen, blow and sip at the same time. I know it's in the DNA and the tradition of your party. It has been forty years – at least since the recovery of democracy – trying to do so. But it's metaphysically impossible. They try again in this motion, but, of course, we are not going to buy them the goods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.53.0	Thank you very much. And now, to pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.54.0	Thank you, Members and Members, for your interventions, some more respectful than others. Why do you do them so much for a dialog table between Catalan parties? Why are you doing so much for them? All parties are representatives of the people – all of them. We don't understand, I don't know where the place and the complex is so we don't call this dial table. What has changed since 2018? – what has changed since 2018? – where you, Junts for Catalunya and Esquerra, did vote in favour of that table and not today. What's changed? What happened? They couldn't explain that to me. And honestly, they don't get along. And I don't think anyone understands that you've been betting on 2018 to call a dialog table with all the Catalan parties and they're not doing it today. Is there a conflict between Catalonia and Spain? Yeah. Yes, Mr. Maragall. Is there a conflict between Catalans? Yes, Mr Maragall, there is a conflict between Catalans: not everyone thinks the same – not everyone thinks the same. And you want to obviate fifty percent of the Catalans who are not independent; that we are not, nor defend amnesty, nor defend self-determination. And what you're doing is you want to create a table that's out; not that you want to eliminate, that eliminates a part of Catalans who don't think like you. That's what they want to do: a table drains. That's not a dialog. And, yes, Mr. Maragall, we want to reduce the conflict. So much! Policies are about reducing conflicts. All – all. You see I don't. You see that you do not want to reduce the conflict, that you want to expand it. Well, we're here to be part of the solution – to be part of the solution. And I think a lot of you want to continue feeling part of the problem. A problem that begins with a reference not born, with an October 1st, with a declaration of independence..., "that we are independent, "that we are not, "that we are now voting again. Listen, frustration and fraud is what you generate many Catalans. It's all right – it's all right, it's all right. And I will not allow you, Mr. Maragall, to put us on a list of good and bad Catalans. It's all right. The PSC has a full service: it has defended Catalonia, its language, its self-government, its financing. Rather than fly, you make lists of good and bad Catalans, which the mass often does. Our table is a table that wants to include everyone, debate about everyone with honesty and sincerity. Whoever it doesn't want to be, it'll explain the reasons, because the ones here, the ones that have been explained all of us here haven't understood. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.55.0	So after discussing the motion, we proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The motion was rejected with 84 votes against, 41 votes in favour and 7 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation of the economic sectors]] [[302-00010/13]] Let's get to the next point of the order of the day. The point of the order of the day is the motion following the question to the Government on the situation of the economic sectors, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress. In order to expose it, the honourable Member has the word Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.56.0	Thank you, President. Well, after this heated motion, let's move on to the motion following the question to the Government about the situation of the economic sectors. Make a record, which has already been made here, but I would also like to do like Pyrenenc, the Emma Roca, also pirinena distinguished and entrepreneurial as few. To thank Lluïsa Llop – Lluïsa, thanks for the papers – to Ramon Tremosa also for the papers – ex-advisor, thanks, I think they have helped to enrich the text – to the Gallego, Joan Carles Gallego, that we have made some transactions, and then a thank you also to the deputy of VOX, also Gallego, that I assume that some of the interventions that have taken place here came from the conversation that we had yesterday, that I said to him: "Select, if there are statements that are correct, that we can agree, but until we assume a minimum of tolerance and respect for the jointness of the city, above all those things that are normal that have no complex situations, therefore, we agree to accept. So... And while I'm not deceiving. We respect very much the people who voted VOX, but what we give them is that they've been fooled. And so, as long as I don't stop fooling people, we're not going to go into a debate on the issues that we might be able to come to terms with. Okay? Therefore, maximum respect for you, but we cannot respect or normalize the situation and position of VOX. What do we ask? Attend meetings or events on which the Government of the Generalitat has to defend the interests of Catalonia. We've already said... – Counsellor, I'm sorry, I didn't say hello. Thank you for being here. So, we said we proposed it. Also talk about the expansion of the Prat airport. I'll tell them that I think the motions... what's going on between the inquiry and the motion. I think it's a..., very important things are happening in this Parliament, because that's when the debate is being held, when it's being proposed and when transactions are being made and when we get out of the maximalist positions. And with Prat's airport we'd have to get out of maximalistic positions, yes or no, white or black and get in to see how we're doing a respectful enlargement with the environment and the right fem not to lose competitiveness. The same with Formula 1. Listen, we can't love it, if we love it, there are world-wide arrest countries that are struggling to get Formula 1. There are countries of the world that are also competing in airports, international hubs. So either we move or the others move and we stay back. We're complaining about the Madrid airport and we lose competitiveness, and when we have the opportunity we don't. It's got to be good, yeah. Olympic Games. And here's my friend Pau Juvillà, who we had various discussions. Listen, speculation does not, but progresses, projects of progress for the country yes; great international events yes. We have a world-class infrastructure ranging from the Olympics from 92 to the Seu d'Urgell, and we have the opportunity to have some Olympic Games that unite, that vertebrate the territory, from Barcelona. Here they ask the Barcelona companies to help us. It's a historic opportunity for the Pyrenees. There are people who don't see it, but we get out of the maximalisms, we go to an intermediate position to do it right. We already have infrastructure structures that you don't think will be created again. The ski resorts are there. They're already there. Power them up. And it's a historic opportunity that the Pirinaeus, fantastic Pirinaeus, various Pirinaeus, can associate with the Barcelona brand, we can make the infrastructures that we have been claiming for forty years and we can gain life and have future. And avoid depopulation and generate progress. And this is also a place to claim that businesses have facilities, small and large, and autonomous. And I keep them in Barcelona and I keep them in the Aran, I keep them in the Ebre and I keep them in Girona. Because we have a different country, because we have a different Parliament. And get out of the maximalisms, please, in large, basic infrastructure. It has been said here that the motor world is a lobby. Excuse me? - Did you forgive me? This week we were seeing leading companies exporting to more than sixty countries that are adapting to the electric motor and that also need to have an infrastructure around them that makes them competitive. We're also here to talk about helping covid, 900_millions, have been short for restraints. I suppose we'll make a new call so that the value chain of the tourism sector, for example, can enter it. Recovering the seventy_per_cent of the presupposition of industrial policy, the support plan for automotive, and one thing that is most important to me – the last, but no less important – I think we would like to reflect on their social and as a competitive territory to attract businesses and investments. This has to be the engine of the state conjunction. This has to be the economic engine of southern Europe. But, to do so, I believe that we need, counselor, a strategy from the government's joint – from the government's joint – to make Catalonia a competitive territory. And yes, to recover his socials that never had to leave for economic reasons. Businesses must be where the economic motivations lie, without maximizing the effects that this has had, but if they are to be here, they must be there. And also if national and international investments are to come, as companies that can be competitive. So..., and obviously – and I finish, President – I also support a very concerned and hurt sector like the tourism sector, in the middle of the tourist campaign, to see how we can give aid and support so that the impact is the least in this summer campaign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.57.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.58.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. The motion submitted by the PSC is poor, limited, unrelated, too generic, unprofessional and lacking in minimum rigor. You leave many things in the tinker – many, eh? Being able to use the brush, they have preferred to pull a big brush. That is why we have tabled a dozen amendments. We could have introduced a lot more. I will highlight some of the ideas that we have set out in these amendments. The three modifications..., well, we wanted a reflection on the Circuit of Catalonia to be included, didn't we? Currently it owes about 50_million_of_euros that circuit. Management is being a real disaster – it is being a real disaster – over the last few years, and so, beyond asking for the signature of the convention calling for the motion, what we were asking was for a process of conversion and modification of the corporate structure to be promoted in a general and structural way. Important changes must be made. He also spoke of the motion, of the figures for investment in industrial policies. What we were asking for with the amendment was that figure. We were talking about around EUR 500 million, which was to maintain, in some way, the spirit of the so-called National Pact for Industry. And we also asked for a reference to the tourist rate, which, since VOX, we have asked on different occasions to be suppressed, right? We also talked about eight issues... As I said before, we could have done many more, but we thought eight more issues had to be highlighted. One, commitment to the defence of constitutional order, legal certainty and political stability. Without that it is difficult for multinationals to bet on Catalonia. I mean, if you see the political circus in Catalonia, that doesn't help to reassure and invite certain multinationals to bet on our land. We were also talking about collecting and implementing the principle of ‘an administration, a competition; finally, we need to reduce bureaucracy, the administrative framework, simplify the costs inherent in duplication, etc. We were also talking about market unity. We think it is an important issue to boost economies of scale and many of the big companies ask us when we meet with them. Changes in urban regulations. It cannot be that a company wants to settle in a certain municipality of Catalonia and spend years, sometimes years, so that in the end they can start, start the process of construction of their ship, of their plant, right? , of its activity. In other words, urban policies in the industrial environment are dramatically failing. We were also talking about keeping the spirit of timely payment to suppliers. We know we're in thirty-six days. Therefore, that number at the moment is not worrying, but, as we know what has happened in the past, it is worth redundancy, what we want is to keep that number around thirty days, withdraw the law of lateness. We were also talking about promoting an institutional campaign in favour of the role of the company, of entrepreneurship, of the culture of effort. It's good to mention the business in Catalonia. I mean, you have... you know, I think I can bet a lot more of a figure without which it is very difficult to generate jobs. And we were also talking about the disposal of certain solar plants, quite industrial solar plants in Catalonia, huh? , which is managed by the General Directorate of Heritage or the Incasòl, man, so to help unlock and improve the position also, in some cases, of industrial polygons in Catalonia. Another day we'll talk about other things, won't we? We will talk about energy, training, taxes, communications, the poor conditions of the polygons, as I said before, right? And with reference to what Mr Ordeig said, you yourself said: "We liked some of his proposals, but as VOX proposes, for nothing, because we voted against them, because we cannot vote in favour of these demonic fascists who eat babies and..., evil creatures without feelings, eh? We're here to mistreat people, aren't we? And, finally, monsters with horn and trident. Frankly, I find it ridiculous, childish, that a parliamentary group should present an amendment to you with an objectively constructive spirit, if not, you should not submit that type of amendment, and they should fall to you because the father of the initiative is a parliamentary group. And you're the ones who fill their mouths with dialogue, aren't you? , when a parliamentary group comes and asks you: "Hey, let's improve the situation of industrial polygons. Anyway, I think they can do their best, I guess they'll be more comfortable with Bildu. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.59.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group In Comú Podemos, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.60.0	Well, good morning. In principle, we will vote in favour of the motion, except in a couple of points. At point 3 we will vote against and at point 13 we will abstain. We were, on point 3, in principle..., our position is to vote against it, because we would not agree that at these times we have to work for the renewal of the contract with Formula 1 and Moto GP and after talking about the strategic plan of the Circuit de Catalunya with the aim of generating a project linked to sustainability and territorial balance. We believe that the order of factors, in this case, is very important. We believe that what is important is to define who is the strategic plane of the Circuit de Catalunya, as we guarantee territorial balance, as we guarantee that in this strategic plane it is pivotal in favour of technological innovation, industrial conversion and the mobility sector. This is the fundamental element. Once we have this strategic plan defined, we can talk about other things; we can talk about seeing whether or not we renew this Formula 1 and Moto GP program, to see what the added value can be, but don't do it the other way around. Because, if not, this strategic plan will not exist or be totally subject to economic interests that revolve around Formula 1 and Moto GP. Therefore, we would vote that no, basically for this issue, because we believe that what it is is to define first this strategic plan that guarantees the elements of sustainability, territorial balance and technological innovation and industrial conversion. We also said that at the 13th point we would abstain. We will abstain, because the proposal – left with a shoemaker at the last moment, seems to be, through a statement by the Junts Group for Catalonia – to submit the candidacy for the Olympic Winter Games Barcelona-Pirineus for the year 2030, we believe that we have not just made clear how these Olympic Winter Games can be compatible with environmental sustainability. And at these times I believe that one of the fundamental challenges that we have in our country – it is a global challenge – is precisely to face the climate emergency and, therefore, to measure very clearly those projects of foundations, those projects that have implications for infrastructure, balance and so on, which ensure that they advance in the fight against the climate emergency, against the climate change and so on. It's not clear to us. This is an element that we should clearly define, this compatibility between moving forward for the Games and ensuring the fight against climate change. Therefore, as we do not see clearly and believe that these are the studies that should be put on the table and define it, it would be useful to define clearly who this global project is. And, for another song, we understand that a project of these characteristics cannot pull forward if it is not in the framework of an extensive civic participation, which obviously sees that the results of these Games increase territorial balance and do not break the territory, do not leave a part of the territory, the part of the south-west, more impoverished, as the north-east side is able to carry out major investments. Therefore, we will abstain because the subject is unclear in both respects. The rest of us have already said that we are voting in favour. I'd like to make two points. One in relation to point 4, which is where we had raised a question. We have suggested that we speak of the National Pact for Industry and its renewal, and not so much of a national industrial plan. In the end, I believe that the drafting of the national plan for industry, which is built from the concertation with economic and social agents and from the political consensus, I think it reflects this idea. The importance of these transformations of the industrial model being part of a pact, of a national pact, of a great agreement of a country between economic and social agents to guarantee the just transitions in the industrial model change and, obviously, also with an important political consensus that the give strategic perspective. And in points 11 and 12, we will also vote in favour of the one referring to tourism; the one that happens, that we liked that you are a little more there. I don't think there's much at this point in time to try to give support to the losers in the tourism sector and see that it's consolidated before the crisis we're experiencing, but I just need to start rethinking already, also, the change of tourist model. We need to approach a new comprehensive tourism model, a tourism model stalled in the territory, giving the turn to some of the limits of the tourism model of these years and the contradictions we have seen with the pandemic. That's why we liked to go a little further, even though we would vote for it, because obviously we're in a critical situation where all the support, that we can start rethinking the model change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.61.0	Thank you. Then, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the Member of Parliament Ramon Tremosa has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.62.0	Thank you very much, President. Many honourable counselors, illustrious deputies and deputies... well, it's the first intervention I make as a deputy in this chamber – before I had been as a counselor. And today I brought a mask with the European flag, because I would like to talk for a minute, before I enter the papers, about the worst crisis we are experiencing, but as we have to put much in value that the reaction of the European Union has been, unlike the previous crisis of 2008, clearly expansive, and this has been an authentic blessing for southern Europe. I mean, we don't have to talk about risk premiums or retailing, but in the last few months the governments of all Europe, regional and state, have been able to increase spending strongly, and that should be valued. And, in this sense – and this is not the issue today – we could imagine how the 2008-2012 crisis would have been without European integration and the euro, and how this crisis would have been without the massive purchase of public debt by the European Central Bank, or the announcement of European funds for recovery Next Generation. I want to remind you that these Next Generation funds are magnificent news: for the first time in history, the European Union issues debt together, and the fiscal union advances via debt union. You think that, in the United States, the 19th-century American Civil War, 1861-65, was motivated by slavery, but also by the patron or the federal debt union. For this reason, Europe has taken advantage of a huge crisis to make a new step forward in European construction. Well, and now, we agree on the general mark of this young man, we have to put all the meat in the graella, presumably speaking, and, in this sense, when I was a councilman I recognized that the Government of the State, in fact, had increased the transfers to the Generality by 20 %, and, therefore, the year 2020 is close to the year with the most public expenditure of the modern history of the Generality, at a cost of 32,150_million euros, which is very important. Now let's imagine what we could have done if we collected all taxes or had an updated finance model, which has not happened since 2014 because the LOFCA has expired and we are out of the law, but that doesn't seem to negate anyone. And, finally, we would vote yes to all the items, less at 5, 7 and 9, because here there are some terms, or periods, or percentages that are very fair to complete and, therefore, we would have liked to have a little more margin to be able to give it support. But yes, we agree to agree on the extension of the Barcelona airport, the only airport in Europe that has doubled traffic in two years– from 27_million to 54_million from 2009 to 2019– and that would have already reached its limit of operations the past summer if we hadn't had the date below the coronavirus. And so, in this sense, the third terminal has to be done. We'll see whether we're expanding the runway or not; we'll discuss it, we'll try to reach a consensual solution, but in principle we agree that the airport should be expanded because it was already on the capacity limit, without the former Spanish government of the PP, for eight years, not doing much. And in this sense, therefore, we also agree with the renewal of the contracts to Formula 1 and Moto GP. And, in addition, the young man sets it up, we link it to the sustainable growth that the car will make. In fact, in the Grand Prix of Motos GP there is already a category of racing electric battery motorcycles. And this is the future of the engine. Therefore, we would like to link these sporting events, which place Catalonia in the world of decades ago, with all the conversion of the industry we have in the abaster. And, in this sense, totally agree. And finally, from Juntes we have presented a note so that the Government of the Generality can submit the Barcelona-Pirineus candidacy for the Olympic Winter Games of the year 2030, that for the information I have, it must be formally and officially supported by a letter before July 15th. Well, as a son of re-emergency, I don't want to say that I'm deluded by this project, because I can only see the conditions of life a hundred years ago in Re-emergency or in other regions of the Pyrenees, to see how far this may be a chance to advance and balance the country. For example, the spokesman for the commons spoke of infrastructure. Well, the Olympic Winter Games can take Puigcerdà train to Sui, or it can be used to update the Barcelona train route to Puigcerdà, which in the 20th century was faster and more convenient than it is now. And in this sense, as we are not yet a state and do not receive all taxes, we have to go through events from these as long as we make progress in investments. And, in this sense, it is only possible to compare, for example, the Olympic Park to its Urgell; the game that they donate not only in the championships that are organized – world or European – but also, during months, federations and competitions of people from all over the world that sees our Pirinaeus. Therefore, it goes in the sense of territorial rebalancing. And the IOC also contemplates...: "We want candidatures where nothing is to be built because all infrastructures already exist. And we have included – and I finish – an addition, we have corrected this question to take into account all the sensitivities by means of different participatory mechanisms. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.63.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Lluïsa Llop.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.64.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone. Counselor, Counselor... we're approaching a certainly vast young man. A young man who, under the will to talk about the situation of the economic sectors – speaks of some of them – speaks of great infrastructures and, therefore, makes a very large, very large, with twelve original points of the young man. Let's move from the National Pact for Industry to the return song of his supporters who left 2017 – that great corporate flight– ; from helping tourism to the automotive support platform; from the possible expansion of the Prat airport to the Montmeló circuit. Therefore, it is clear that with page and medium we address and resolve a whole series of themes that are absolutely, many of them, structural and cabdal, aspects that will mark the economic development of Catalonia in the next twenty years – some of them sure – and that, therefore, for themselves they would need a lot of these points, a debate that obviously we cannot substantiate in these forty-five minutes that we have today, nor with the thirty that there was with the Councillor's inquiry. This leads us to make small headlines in these phrases and that in many fears we do not get into the background and that surely can be interpreted differently: what for some groups is one thing, for others is another. What we do have clear from the Republican Left is that all these issues..., many of them need an individualized debate, a serious debate, with a political consensus, obviously, but not just a political consensus, but also necessary, with the social and economic agents of our country. There's no doubt about it, and that's how they score it, so, publications... the Financial Times or the KPMG Investment Monitor. They describe the Catalan economy as an economy that continues to generate investment attraction and continues to attract these investments to the rest of the world. But it is clear that Catalonia, like everyone else, has gone through a pandemic that is accompanied by a severe economic crisis and that manifests the weaknesses of the Catalan economy, with a exit from the crisis that has left many people to stand in the way. That's why the Government of the Generality has invested 2,454_million euros in short-term aid, which is what it would like to do, both in business, as well as in self-employment, because it's the government – because I think so – that more help has been done in all sectors to try to deal with this crisis. Now, I don't just go out with direct help, I don't just go out with short-term help, I just go out with long-term help, and it's essential to build a exit with an absolutely different vision, generating a bright, social, green and feminist economy. To get out of this crisis..., I'm setting an example of one of the infrastructures that we're dealing with today, which is enlargement, the possible expansion of the Prat airport, in the case of this issue that we've dealt with. In the first place, we believe that this enlargement, or not, must be supported on three axes. In the first place, the rebuttal that has so far not made, of this management, Aena, of the process of this enlargement. It is clear that no one can be satisfied with how it has been managed so far. Neither xantatges nor ultimatums, but what is called rigor, alternatives and consensus, in a serious process, based on the rigorous study of alternatives– of today's alternatives, not two years ago –, of how it has changed and which has assumed the covid for the world economy. Secondly, we need to bet on a Catalan airport model of major international connectivity. Certainly, but we need to plan the infrastructure of Catalonia. We need you to respond in a set of Catalan airport systems, also taking into account the airports of Reus and Girona. That's why we felt the thoughts we presented them. In the same way that, in the third place, any decision is conditioned on environmental criteria: the reduction of emissions, the protection of biodiversity and natural areas such as the estany of Ricardo or Ca l'Aranya. Environmental impact and diversity protection are not empty words. We need to complete these conditions, and only then will it be possible, if it is completed, a possible expansion of the airport. Finally, thank as always – I insist on these great headlines – the opportunity to agree with Congressman Ordeig. I want to make an embodiment presented by JuntsxCat about the Olympic Games. For us it is a task which, although rectified, remains very short. In Esquerra we have a much higher compromise for a consultation: to find the territorial consensus and to work through it, to make some Olympic games in case the territory so wants. To end now, gentlemen of the PSC, and in this case, lords of the commons, there are many things that can be done to improve the economic sectors of our home. First, they make the Next Generation fund manage from Catalonia. Second, we can decide to manage our infrastructure in Catalonia. And, third, they make the resources that Catalonia generates we can decide, manage and invest in our home. That is a great improvement for the economic sectors of our country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.65.0	Next, to fix his position, he has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar, Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.66.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning. It has already been said, it is a young man who touches many fears; although, perhaps, under the pretext of economic sectors there are different areas affected, and it is very difficult to get into all points. I'll go into some, or those that we understand are for us more substantial, in this mantra, right? , for example, the need to expand the Prat airport. And yesterday, there were three hundred gathering entities that explained why the Prat airport should not be expanded, and why part of the arguments that are being used are arguments on their part and are not real. I'll tell you some arguments for not expanding the airport. One, because it is inconsistent with the climate commitments made both for Catalonia and for the Spanish State; it is directly inconsistent. The second: aviation is the sector that contributes most to the increase in current emissions. Therefore, expanding the airport to give more space to travel to aviation still encourages an increase in emissions. Thirdly, because decarbonizing aviation, which is one of the things that is being argued, is not realistic at all until 2050. Fourth: there are no effective mechanisms to compensate for these emissions. Although there are some inventions, they do not respond to reality. Six: It is incompatible with the protection of the biodiversity of the delta of the Llobregat, despite the fact that here it is intended to fit the natural space of the delta in the drafting of the motion. Set: the environmental damage of the later enlargement of 2004 has not yet been compensated at this time. If we're at 2021 and they haven't made up for the 2004 enlargement, they'll tell me when we'll make up for the damage they'll be doing with a possible enlargement now. Vuit: will not boost sustainable tourism; the expansion of the airport will not reverse the sector of sustainable tourism. No: AENA, who has made a report that defends the expansion of the airport, is involved in speculation, leaving a band that is a very transparent company and has, as I said before, made a report on its part, because if its share of shareholders are keen that what they are looking for is an expansion of the airport to encourage construction enterprises from the reversal of these 1,700_million euros to expand the airport, we say that it is necessary to respond to these interests on the part of them and, at the same time, it is to encourage a type of business or shareholders that do not respond to this model change that is said to be looking after the pandemic, apart from the fact that this report ignores the media's impact on the current and current risks. So, it's based on a false hypothesis, on the hypothesis that tourism or aviation is going to get back in numbers previous to covid-19, and we understand that there's a whole series of elements that should lead us to think that this isn't going to happen. And, finally, though: increase inequality. The frequent travel market is tremendously uneven. If we look at the predicted figures in the pandemic, we have to have one percent of the global population emit fifty percent of emissions in commercial aviation, and, in fact, it is between two and four percent of the world population that took international flights in 2018 – between two and four percent of the world population. Think also what system or what model at world level we're building, right? And, therefore, how we foment even more unequal. And I was done. Olympic Games. Apart from Mr. Tremosa making his own lobby in his government, from the party that you have to give support, which I already find delirious, which is to make it clear which model is the one that wants to develop for the Pyrenees. Turistic monoculture? Is this the model we want? Do we think of ourselves as models of development per al Pirineu? One proposal: why don't we work on a technology and development center for the drive and formatting in the Seu d'Urgell? , when we have some comarques, the comarques of the Vegueria of the High Pirinius and Aran, with a high dependence on tourism; that is, Alta Ribagorça, forty-two_percent of GDP ; Aran, forty_percent of GDP ; Pallars Sobirá, thirty-three_percent of GDP. Diversify. Let us stop promoting an economy that is precarious in this market. I, finally, Circuit de Catalunya. I think we've already exposed the counselor's question enough yesterday, and we won't say it again, but it's a matter of concern that they're still in response to a lobby, which is the engine lobby, if there's the engine lobby and the automotive lobby. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.67.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Deputy Joan García has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.68.0	Thank you, President. Mr Ordeig, thank you for putting forward a motion of this kind; but I will also tell you that you have surprised us enough. We were expecting, sincerely – and I think it has been commented here – something a little deeper and not so eclectic. Frankly, it is a motion that even tries to find a definition of the same, which is complex, about the economic sectors, leaving many that it does not deal with in the same, and at the same time I think it is obvious that it is very difficult to catalogue. I find her, honestly, something naïve. And I say it with all due respect. Once we go in to define or look at each of these points, one reviews on the one hand the original motion and then revises the motion negotiated with the Government and is even more decaffeinated. I mean, if I was already unambitious the original and I was looking for – I understand that that's the goal; that we already know many times, too, because that's how to develop these kinds of PSC initiatives – government support or move this motion forward, discussing or including rather ethereal points, when we see how it has changed with the government's amendments, because some of them really disappoint us and disappoint us quite, sincerely. I do not know whether it is the duality that you have created that you are government and at the same time opposition and that you do not know very well where you are and that, therefore, what you want is for your initiatives to be part of the government's initiatives, but many of the changes that have been made are in that direction. One of the first, which has surprised me enough – it has not been talked about, but we here are going to vote no – is the first point. You here were simply talking about the Government attending meetings and events relevant to the Catalans, but it is that the amendment that the Government has introduced is relevant if the Government of the Generalitat considers it. I mean, they don't even give that, let's say, pleasure to push them to go to important meetings, often with their own government in Madrid, with the Government of Spain. That is why we will vote that we do not, basically because we believe that if we are already decafeinating the proposal and above this wording is modified in this way, we cannot accept it. Important things that, from this point, from this set of motions, we will position ourselves. The second point, on the airport, we believe that here the modification, that of seeking consensus, I think it is correct, we will vote that yes, we will support that transaction that you have made with Esquerra and with the Government, with Esquerra and with Junts per Catalunya. On point number three, which speak of the Circuit of Catalonia, we think it is right that we continue to work, but – I think it has been commented here and I think it is important – we need transparency, because precisely this project has some important doubts, and as many other times happens, we do not make an assessment of the projects before making proposals and renewing them. This is why we believe and it is important that amendments or, at least, measures to evaluate these projects are also introduced here. Points, too, important of your motion. When we were talking, of course, about some such as the increase, in this case, of the CNAEs : totally in agreement that it should be done. There are some entities like Acelec that have asked for it. And, in fact, they have also asked that the process of implementing these aids should also be reviewed. And on some of the other points..., it does not give me time to talk about all of them, but it is clear that some of them, such as the process of seeking companies to return to Catalonia, as has been said here, without legal certainty, however much we try to push the government to do so, the headquarters of companies that have gone away will not return. I wanted to position myself, with the twenty seconds left at the end, on the presentation of Mr Tremosa's amendment – Mr de los lobbies, isn't it, Mr Tremosa? We're in favour. We will vote in favour of this amendment, precisely because we believe that it is an example of coordination with other autonomous communities; in fact, this proposal cannot work if this coordination is not done with Aragon, and I believe that even the name Jocs Olímpics d'hivern de Barcelona-Pirineus would have to include some reference to the neighbouring autonomous community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.69.0	Thank you, Mr. García. And then, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.70.0	Thank you, President. Well, this is one of those motions that periodically arrive at this Plenum of Letter of Kings and which, in principle, in the vast majority, therefore, the wording is difficult to reject, isn't it? , because it appeals to very generic issues, which, I insist, can be widely shared. The only thing, which immediately invites you to think that why all that writing never apply it in the Government of Spain or they are not applying it right now in Barcelona capital, where they are in coalition government. But, well, beyond that point, therefore, obviously what we are voting on here is a text, and in those points the text cannot be rejected, because we share it. It is true that there are two points where, in our view, the amendments have ruined the original wording, which we could have supported. Firstly, the amendment on the airport issue. Finally, it is necessary to be naive enough to think that, after hearing the interventions radically against – and, moreover, I think that it is difficult to reverse the matter, given the force with which some groups have expressed themselves against the expansion of the airport – some kind of consensus can be reached. We have to position ourselves. As I said before, it's in the DNA of the PSC tradition trying to blow and sip at the same time, but it's still metaphysically impossible; they can try for another 40 years, but they won't be able to do it. They will have to position themselves on these issues at some point. And then, obviously, that of point 1 – that of point 1. From the moment that the Government of Catalonia is given that kind of discretion about the type of meetings it has to attend, obviating the fact that the Government of Catalonia and this Parliament are part of the General Administration of the State, for you obviously fall back into that rhetoric and this separatist mental framework. I do not know whether you realize it or not, whether you are conscious or not, in any case, we, on that point, will vote against and, therefore, I move forward, Madam President, that we will call for a separate vote on points 1 and 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.71.0	All right, thank you very much. Next, to pronounce on the papers, has the word the deputy Óscar Ordeig. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.72.0	Thank you. Thank you, President. [[The timer laughs.]] We were, the Ciutadans and the People's Party, Alejandro Fernández and Mr. García, might have filed some papers to try to complement, enrich and trade something, huh? But, man, when you say it's not good, it's not good enough, but I don't present a paper to improve it.... Mr Tremosa, "the Europeanist I will say; not the lobbyist, the Europeanist, escorts. Totally fine. I must say that I have rediscovered it, in the good sense of the word: a very readable person, who has written; that in some things we do not agree, but I think that at least he has a position of respect for the different things; Europeanist... He has to put the meat in the grail; with the permission of Mr. Garzón, but the meat in the grail. And, listen, Olympic Games; I haven't forgotten, thanks for the emena. I think we've left an important project and so it's settled. It is that we have put on the table the themes of debate that at these times we have and we have tried to point out to us some that will be long and long before we talk. I was against the consultation, for a reason. "The mayors of the Pyrenees, the people of the Pyrenees, must participate. Ask! If they're okay with it! And we don't have a tourist problem, we have a tourism deficit, and I can ask any of us here in the Pyrenees. Our problem with tourism is not what there might be – perhaps – here in Barcelona on some issues. I don't have much time. Thank you, Lluïsa Llop. Financing: som-hi – som-hi, som-hi, som-hi, huh? – and don't wait any longer, let's go! Okay? And Mrs. Reganing, listen, we need to find the way to the middle of things, the way to the middle, the way to the way to the middle. And so, that's what we've been trying to pass on to this young man. I leave for the end, but no less important, to answer the VOX spokesman. « Poor, unconnected, unprofessional. This is the definition of his political project, based on lies and demagogy – lies and demagogy. And I'll give you one: Do you know what day it is today? – Do you know what day it is today? Thursday. Yes, live Thursday, and live... all the people who are painting because of their lies, their demagogicity, and all the people who have deceived, who are patenting and who are deceiving it by taking four votes. [[Greetings and remorse. Marta Vilalta and Torres ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.73.0	Yes, ma'am Vilalta?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.74.0	President, for a separate vote on paragraphs 5, 7, 9, which could be grouped in our case, and 13–5, 7 and 9, and 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.75.0	Okay. We had 1 and 2, who had asked me for the Mixt Group, separated; 5, 7, 9, as the package, and 13... [[Eulàlia Regant and Cure ask to speak.]] Mrs. Regant?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.76.0	Yes, for a separate vote on points 1, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 10.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.77.0	Okay. [[Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. White Martin.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.78.0	Yes, to ask for a separate vote from point 1, which was already called, and then, together for us, from 3, 9 and 10 – 3, 9 and 10.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.79.0	Any other groups want to ask for a separate vote? (David Cid Colomer asks to speak.) Ah, yes, Mr. Cid, not the see.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.80.0	In our case he voted separately on the 3rd and the 13th, also separately, and the rest would be able to vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.81.0	We shall vote separately from all points and vote jointly on points 8, 11 and 12, which are the three that have not been the object of a separate vote. So, let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 103 votes to 20, with 9 abstentions. We are now voting on Point 2. The vote begins. Point 2 was approved with 108 votes in favour, 21 against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved with 100 votes in favour, 28 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved with 113 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number five. The vote begins. Point 5 was not approved; it had 50 votes in favour, 75 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved with 114 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. Point 7 has not been approved; it has 50 votes in favour, 75 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number nine now. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Number 9, I'm voting. Point 9 was not approved, with 44 votes in favour, 81 votes against and 7 abstentions. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. Point 10_has been approved with 114 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number 13 now. The vote begins. The 13_point was approved with 71 votes in favour, 20 against and 43 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man now. It's points 8, 11 and 12. The vote begins. These points were approved with 114 votes in favour, 20 votes against and no abstentions. [[Proposal for a law to extend urgent measures to address housing emergencies (totality debate)]] [[202-00005/13]] Let's go to the next item on the agenda, number 4, which is the debate of totality on the proposal of the law to expand urgent measures to deal with the housing emergency. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the four proposed parliamentary groups will first intervene to present this legislative initiative, for a maximum of 15 minutes each. It has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Ms Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.82.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, we present this point by making an initial reflection, saying that it is true that the right, from a Marxist conception, which is what we are interested in, has never been thought of as an instrument of emancipation from the weakest, but what normally does is reflect the interests of the dominant classes. But it's also true that when a law is well done it has to be recognized. It must be acknowledged that this Parliament, in which I am now honoured to intervene, in 2007 made a good housing law; a law that was extensive, which was very well dealt with in it itself, of 168 articles, the fruit of a work not done from the immediate, but of a four-year work. One of the laws which at that time was one of the most advanced in the Spanish State and in the countries around it, and which started from the basic idea that the place where it is lived, the accommodation of which a person has, is that which conditions the rest of his life– not only when he lives, but the territory where he develops life– and which was intimately linked with other rights, such as the right to privacy, to physical and moral integrity, to security, to education. In fact, this 2007 law was cited, the same year that was approved, in 2007, for Kothari, a representative of the UN, as a good legislative practice. And the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe also put it as an example of good law. This law incorporated, for the first time, concepts such as urban segregation, territorial cohesion, urban masoveria, rehabilitation of buildings, orientation of planning to complete certain ends, struggle against residential segregation, against real estate settlement. And he had a power away sanctioning that made me read it, didn't he? In the case of failure, therefore, it could be applied. It also contemplated a very interesting thing, which was civic action, a public action in housing matters, right? , where the city could require administration because it was complex to what was established by law, in the same way that this is covered by urban legislation. All the lawyers... I make these priors to talk about what we're presenting today, because it seemed to me that in this society of the immediate, where everything goes by tweets, it's all so instant, sometimes to look back and see where we're coming from. So, as I said, the renowned jurists who participated in the elaboration of this eraser publicly expressed their wish that this law motivated the Administration. And one of his editors, Mr. Juli Ponce, said, he warned, a few months after the law is published, that if it is true that a law does not guarantee good policies, it is also that a bad law probably ensures that these policies can never be adopted. Well, this law, I repeat, was approved for this Parliament of Catalonia, by Socialist Party, Initiative, Republican Left, and there was only one vote against Convergence and Union and the People's Party. But, in any case, they did not file any constitutional appeals against the law, only the Council of State Guarantees giving the OK, the approval to this law. Well, more than two years have passed since the adoption of this law and, sadly, what was alerting this law writer – that laws can be very masquerading, but they may not apply – is what actually happened. It's a law that didn't apply – in fact, it almost didn't apply – and surely, if it did apply as it was supposed to, then the situation we're living in today wouldn't be as dramatic. The law, remember-ho, 2007 is dictated in full real estate boom and before you flashed the real estate bubble of 2008. When this law was dictated, then it already existed structurally, didn't it? , so that we water – a problem of public housing stock, difficult to access to housing – but it had not yet exposed all its cruelty to the problem of mortgage over-indebtedness that generated the economic crisis, which caused many people to fail to turn the credit of their housing. So, when's he coming out, right? , this crisis of mortgage over-indebtedness, thanks to a popular legislative initiative promoted for the social movements that work to make the right to housing..., that we can from this forum do more than thank his pocket, his labor in the defense of the common good, because when the public powers, which are those called to protect the common good, do not do it, we get out of this counterpower that from the street makes it work to advance rights. Thus, as a result of this popular legislative initiative, the Law 24/2015, which provides for measures of over-indebtedness related to housing, the obligation to offer social logger in cases of compensation and payment, to propose social loggers before requests for mortgage execution or denunciations for lack of payment in cases of large estates and in persons at risk of social exclusion, and including in cases of termination of terms or good in cases of lack of title. And this law, the 24/2015, also clarifies what we should hear as a great tenor. Well, this law, the 24/2015, was dictated at a time of cruelty, but this extreme cruelty that it has done has continued to increase in time. And this motivated 2019 to have a law decree, 17/2019, to also give an immediate solution to emergency situations. Well, now that we appreciate its opportunity, the principles and criteria that inform this bill's proposal, it is precisely a text that expands the urgent measures to address the housing emergency, that has been entered by register for Junts, for Esquerra, for communes and for the UPC, and that has its direct consequence in the constitutional appeal that eighty-six members of the People's Party have filed before the Constitutional Court. The text that we are wearing today in this chamber has, in our opinion, a perfect cabuda in the legal framework fixed for the 78th rule, for the Spanish Constitution and for the Statute of Autonomy, and yet there are two groups that have submitted papers to the totality: PP and VOX. These two groups do not want this law to be passed on, they want me to stay here, because their political agenda, as always, is to secure the interests of the usual, to make them hold, bank, funds turned, socimis, sicavs, perfectly guaranteed their hegemony. But obviously, this law will not stay here and, therefore, we present this law. When he challenged the Constitutional Court, the PP, this law, added to it – and thanks a bit – that there was no presumption that his approval was justified, that is, that the extreme urgency needed was not given, which I think is quite difficult to deny. But it is that, moreover, he said that there was no housing problem, but that the housing situation was inclusive of the Spanish State and Catalonia better than the other « great economic potentials– I say between comets–, with Itàlia France and Germany. Well, we haven't seen this report, but it's really hard for us to hear who can sign a report like that. The other reason they were also using was that the form of decree was used to regulate a thing that affected the right of ownership and that, therefore, had to have..., like it was a truncated thing, right? , which affected an essential thing such as ownership, so it had to take the form, the embalum of law. And, well, it's today that we come to present in this room. We give a more consistent form, don't we? in a text, and what we are recovering, therefore, is that the Constitutional Court, in its, too, has no guarantee of this so closed 78 rule has escaped. We'll take him back to this room today. And, well, what we're doing is enumerating causes of non-performance of the social function of the property, such as, for example, the fact that a dwelling is permanently unoccupied. So now we're making an express prediction that the habitats that are permanently unoccupied for more than two years are not fulfilling the social function that society has been called upon to accomplish. It also foresees other interesting things about this law, which is that the Generality requires you to take care of people's homes, and that, if you don't, you can impose many coercive measures. For us... surely, on the back of the rest of the games opposing this law, they will tell us that this is not constitutional. We understand that this is an absolutely constitutional law, because it follows all the essence that already provided for this 2007 law, which no one questioned its constitutionality. Therefore, if the law of 2007 is constitutional, no one challenged it, this law, in the same measure, so it is also constitutional. And it's a technically well-made law that has a perfect fit into this idea that the property right is not an absolute unlimited right, but it's designed, framed, for social function. So, the legislator, we, what we do is give..., draw what we need to hear as a social function, and, therefore, what we need to hear as a social function failure. Another interesting thing that you also foresee is the creation of the register of great habitators, an administered register of character that will give us a lot of information about who is the map of people who are now accumulating the immobile assets, the habitats, in our home. Another thing that also does this law, apart from the articles referring to the 2007 law, is to recover these articles that it commented on from Law 24/2015. And tell us, for example, what we need to hear from you. Now it's not the one that... there's not 15 habitats for legal persons, but it's gone down to two habitats. Therefore, anyone who owns more than two dwellings must be considered a great possessor. It is also expected that the Administration can resolve the mandatory cessation of housing going from three to seven years; that the social loggers that end..., therefore, can make a new social logger contract if it is still in a residential exclusion situation, and a whole series of social loggers proposals before filing legal applications in cases of title expirations. Finally, Law 4/2016 is also amended, it is envisaged that it can be forcibly expropriated so that the Administration has a housing stock, if the immovables are found in certain areas and if they are found in the register of empty habitats. We understand that it is a law that can be approved as a result of the emergency situation in which we find ourselves. We will need to provide this law with resources and make it public, that the citizens know its existence and all the extension of rights that it allows. And, as always, we can't stay here, but we have to go further. This law is very necessary, I repeat it again, because of the cruelty of the moment and why is it starting out that housing is not a good product, and it poses, isn't it? , the focus in which we cannot consider habitat as being well produced, nor as funding, and we believe that it is essential to end its approval. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.83.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.84.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, organisations from the promoter group, we find again an essential legislative initiative to defend the right to housing; an initiative that, again, is the result of constant work and compromise of all organisations defending the right to housing. Without the entities that conform the motor group of the ILP 24/2015, the main legislative advances that have been given to Catalonia in this topic would not have been donated: the Platform of Affects for Mortgage, the Observers DESC, the Alliance for Energy Poverty. And not without the unbeatable work of these organizations with drawings of adhering entities; entities such as the Third Sector Table, the Social Work College, the ICAB Defense Commission, the Federation and the Association of Municipalities of Catalonia, Trade Union of Llogateres, among many others. If Catalonia has a very advanced legislation in the matter of housing, it is precisely thanks to the leadership that associations, organizations and collections have exercised, which have always been very much ahead of institutions. And on this occasion, again, the Parliament we do is take all this work, collect it and defend it. And now it's our turn to turn it into law. Obviously, the story of the bill we're debating today doesn't begin today. It is a long history that begins with the elaboration and negotiation of Decree 17/2019, of urgent measures for the right to housing. A decree that completed and already strengthened the 24/2015 with new tools to deal with the housing emergency, to defend vulnerable people against the interests of speculators and that forced to offer a social logue before naming families with the report of vulnerability. This was a great triumph for the movement of housing, and while it was in force, it avoided denominations and got a social logger to thousands of families, because it put the interests of the common people in front of the interests of the great funds of reversal and the speculative financial entities. And, of course, neither the People's Party nor the Constitutional Court could afford it; a People's Party that offered to win the courts where it lost the ballot box and, above all, put an end to all those legislative initiatives that defend rights and fight against the speculation of banks and the funds of reversal, their friends. We cannot forget that the People's Party has already challenged the Law 24/2015 the year 2016, a popular legislative initiative that was approved unanimously to the Parliament of Catalonia. A Constitutional Court which has often shown its complicity with the bank and which last month, one year after its approval and being in force, cancelled some of the articles in order to cool the denunciations of vulnerable families. But the organizations, as always, tireless, then they organized and put themselves to work to find alternatives that can recover these fundamental measures to guarantee rights. It is important to note that, for the predecessors and by agreement of the promoter group and of the parties involved, this law proposal is intended to shield resources or items of other parties that are outside this group and will have to be rejected if they do not count on the promoter group's view. And from our group, from Common We can, all the compromise to stop pushing this law in as little time as possible, given the emergence we live in, and respecting the one-hundred_per_cent of its content and its spirit. As we have committed ourselves to social entities, we want this to be the first law that guarantees the rights we approve in this legislature, and because we are living in a housing crisis, measures must also be urgent. The figures have been repeated many times. Catalonia continues to lead the flow of denominations during the year 2020 with a mid-point of fifteen daily denominations. We are the autonomous community where the most denunciations are fan, a part of the ones that are executed throughout the State. It is estimated that between 2008 and 19 more than 330,000 people lost their homes where they lived. The social entities, for another band, calculate that more than three-thousand families have lost the social loggers to which they had rights with 17/2019 because of this cancellation made by the Constitutional Court, and that if these anti-denomination measures do not apply, at the late 21st and 22nd we can find ourselves ahead of an authentic tsunami of denominations, with about 26,000, exceeding the maximum we reached in 2013. The anti-denomination measures we want to recover and improve with this law have the basic objective of improving the lives of the most vulnerable people and families and guaranteeing fundamental rights. In the 24/2015 we introduced the compulsory social logger, the compulsory cessation of empty habitations also in case of great temers, a measure that, in fact, sought to mobilize the huge park of empty habitations that we have in Catalonia. And, for another band, with 17/2019 we extended protection to many families incorporating the binding logger to contract finalizations, in some cases, occupations in precarious housing of banks and foundations, and also making the renewals of social loggers that ended mandatory. And these are the measures that are annulled by the Constitutional Court and that we recover. With this new law we also improve some measures of 17/2019, such that the legal persons affected will be the ones that have given and not fifteen habitats, set a maximum term of one_month so that the great tenors present the offer of social loguer, and, three, extend the mandatory cessation from three to seven years, equaling the term of the LAU. This law will again mean a very important step in the protection of many families, but let us not deceive ourselves, it will not be enough to solve the enormous housing crisis that we are experiencing. The approach to housing emergence must be an absolute priority for this new government. And for this reason, measures that accompany this law, some of which were approved by Parliament with the motion that we presented a few weeks ago, such as creating and equipping an anti-denomination unit; mediation teams throughout Catalonia; putting measures, helping small owners to keep their families awake; putting on the march, before the year ended, a plan to eliminate the lists of hope – for example, in Barcelona, only the Generality has stopped laying 1,400 habitats that correspond to them–; also putting in place the sending of Brimo and the Arro to the denominations– less political of the Interior and more social policies–; reviewing the protocol of judicial initiations to serve the court, the coordination of local government, the coordination of local government, the coordination of local governments, the coordination of local governments. In fact, it is a proposal that is framed in the proposal to amend the law on guaranteed income of citizens, because we believe that this right to housing must be accompanied by this return policy. As I have said on different occasions, legislating is essential to be able to apply good public policies and guarantee rights, but because the laws are still effective, it is definitely brave and compromised. This means providing them with the necessary premises and personnel for their deployment. I, in this case, also control and, obviously, sanction all these great lords who do not complete. A plan, short and medium, to guarantee the right to habitat. It also comes out of the alarming political inaction of the Government of the Generality, which did not want to exercise its skills in housing, which did not put the media tools in the way to stop the denunciations. And we should, of course, also place a similar assumption to that of the Barcelona Assembly, for example, that we are talking about a eighth_per_cent investment in housing versus a percent, which is what the Generality is putting down. We hope that in 2022 we have a housing assumption of 1,000_million euros, as has been compromised in one of the agreements that was served by President Aragonès and that he continues to argue in his speeches of iniciators of the legislature. And that with these resources, finally, the Generality exercises its role in promoting housing, which has completely abandoned in the later years. And also incorporate this direct promotion by the Incasòl. It is essential to increase the capacity to produce public housing by the public enterprise of the Generalitat. And I finish my intervention as I started, thanking all the entities, organizations, right-to-habitat collections, their consistency, their ability to move the administrations to advance in the guarantee of this right. Without stopping and putting up and putting up the body to stop denunciations, and without generating these collectible processes to empower people at risk of losing their habitat, what we are doing today would not be possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.85.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word M.P. Pau Morales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.86.0	Well, good morning. Thank you very much, President. "The health crisis has also made it quite clear that public housing policies rely on low-intensity instruments and provide very limited coverage. It is very difficult to guarantee access to decent and secure housing, and, more concretely, to provide adequate responses to uncertainty and vulnerability that have recently been met by many people and families without sufficient resources. So what I just read doesn't say Republican Left, this comes out of this same month's CTSC report on right to housing and cove. And it's that the situation doesn't just start from a structural deficit, but it doesn't stop getting worse every day. That's why Republicans and Republicans mean the right to housing as a basic right to the person: everyone has to have the right to housing. We are here today, in a first step of parliamentary debate on a law to expand urgent measures against housing emergence. There is why the Constitutional Court dropped the Decree of 17/2019, an attempt, at that time, of the Government of Catalonia, agreed with many entities, to stop the growing housing emergence, which was torpedoed from the state's apparatuses, in an exhibition more clearly of this alliance between the apparatuses of the 78's regime and its privileges, which have deployed their capitalism of friends under the protection of this same regime, marketing and speculating with housing or, in a more euphemistic name, defining housing as a good of consumption. Well, not only will they find us face to face, but we will do what we can and cannot to guarantee the right to housing for everyone. And that, in a world where resources are limited, implies that it can be redistributed. This law goes from this, to guarantee rights, to defend a few minimums to secure life. The vote today was to get you to launch the proposal and we can debate it and improve it. That's right, as we did at the time of the registry, from the hands of social movements and right-to-habitat movements. And finally we can approve it; approve a law of urgent measures to deal with the housing emergency, which is vital, which should already be in force, which would already be in force if it were for the majority of this chamber. Those who today have presented a message to the totality to such a basic and important law, short and short, give to the totality of life and the most imperative social needs. Now we recover the decree in the form of law to overcome the defect of form, because the emergence has not escaped, the housing emergence has not suspected it by the Constitutional Court. And we're doing it a lot harder, because this law up here today with a wide support of many different forces, and above all with the impulse and initiative of social movements and movements for the right to housing. It's worth explaining a little bit of this law, which it's about. It is, as we have already said, the transposition of Decree 17/2019, it is what must allow us to deal with much of the housing emergency and not to arrive in many cases at the denunciation, that is, at the loss of the habitation. I remember a few days ago, in this Parliament, the appearance of Councillor Elena, we were asking that everyone put on his side to end the denunciations of the families vulnerable to our country. Today it is up to Parliament to put a little more on our side, and I do not doubt that it will be so, because we have the majorities that must make it possible. This law – my companies have explained it a little earlier – redefines the concept of the great tenor, making legal persons become considered great tenors from the tenor of two dwellings, which will make it harder for those who do maneuvers to try to avoid the effects, therefore, of the regulatory laws that we do from this Parliament. There is an increase in the proposal for the period of social loguer: six years, in the case that the great tenor is a natural person; twelve years, in the case that he is a legal person. And the minimum duration of social loguer contracts is also extended, as is the mandatory renewal if the situation of the person concerned has not changed in the course of the social loguer's lifetime. I, finally, approve the creation of this register of great compulsory habitators for legal persons. I take advantage of these last few minutes of the intervention to address different agents involved in the problem of housing. To the Spanish government: moratorium of the anti-denomination decree already; we cannot arrive in September in the bad weather. That would be distorting, and actually distorting, as Mr. Batlle said a few days ago, and not the action of the housing unions. To the powers of the State: that I cease to restrain the social aspirations of Catalonia, and that I cease to question the legitimate competence of this Parliament to legislate in the matter of housing. To the mobilized people: I support before repression, and, above all, that the anims do not fall. That's possible thanks to you, and I'm sure we'll win. To the citizens of this country: that they have a government and a parliament on the side of these basic rights that are broad consensus. And to the government: that they take us at their side to bring these social laws forward, as well as the regulation of the loguers, and that we look forward to an important increase in the public housing park to begin to solve the problem from the base. And I'm just addressing you, Members of Parliament. Defending our sovereignty is defending people's rights, as we are defending the right to housing today. To defend the people's rights, what we also need is a parliament that is going to fight to be raised; it has proved itself one time and another, also in this law that it would already be on the march. And so, I am useful to the citizenry, as we defend better the utility of Parliament and need it to be the Parliament of an independent state like what we want republicans and republicans. We're dropping the puzzle to the full, and we're giving the green light to the processing of a state law to secure the right to housing for all Catalans and Catalans. That is what unites our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.87.0	Thank you very much. Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs. Gloria Freixa has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.88.0	Well, very honorable president, councillors, deputies, today, as my colleagues have already commented, we bring the debate to the full of the bill that will allow us to recover protection measures for families at risk of residential exclusion. They are measures which, as the companies have already said, have already been contemplated by Law 24/2015, approved unanimously in this Parliament, and extended also by Decree 17/2019, which was also validated by this Parliament and which, as you know, was annulled by the Constitutional Court. The needy who wanted to cover the law has remained even overtaken. They get out of the pandemic, as you know, the situation of vulnerable families has increased enormously and, therefore, they get out of this difficult economic situation that they are patenting, this is more necessary than ever. Despite the urgency of the situation, because of the complexity of the subject matter, because of the legal uncertainty involved in the continued appeals to the Constitutional Court, and also because of the willingness to add all the new actors that extend this range of solutions, we have considered that, by consensus with all the proposing groups, and also with the PAH promoter group, processing, although urgent, is not by one reading, and we believe that it will be easier for all actors to participate, and of course it will improve this legislative text. But in this context of urgency we'd like to talk a little bit about what we've done. Since the Government of the Government of Catalonia it has been asked to extend the moratorium on the denunciations of persons in a situation of vulnerability, because this does not end, as the company of Esquerra Republicana said, this summer, but extends until 31 December 2021. The Spanish Government has also been asked to expand its economic resources to prevent these new cases of vulnerability, which may mean the loss of the usual housing of many families. But no one believes that with the investment of 12_million euros of extraordinary help at the time – which, moreover, they already know that it has ended in fifteen days – we will solve this situation. This will not be enough to avoid these habitat losses. And that neither is it believed that with the money from the economic compensation of the State to these families will avoid the denunciations, because these moneys come from the housing plan, which this year 2021 ran out in a few days, which the past year ran out in a few days..., because at the end of the day it seems to me that you already know that this housing plan..., the moneys arrive very well for a program of the whole plan. Once again, if we do not extend the economic foundations that are needed, from the Generality, with its own assumptions, these compensations to the owners. The deputy of the commons also spoke of what the Generality has done. What I would also like to do is make the point of what is also happening at the Barcelona Assembly, that with a reversal of the eighth_per_cent in housing, there have been no excessive changes in these past six years. We want to make it clear that the proposed law we are debating today contains exceptional measures, that we do not understand, in any case, that it is what must be part of some structural housing policies, and that other territories of the Spanish State have liked to implement it. Because this – we have to say – are non-existent measures even where the self-appointed progressive governments govern. And we are very afraid that, just as the text is right now, if we don't work well, very quickly these parliamentary groups – some present in this chamber – or even the Spanish government, as has been seen with the last law containing loguers, will bring it back to the Constitutional Court. That is why, as we have already stated by the proposing groups and also by the movements that have promoted these measures, we will work on this law, and we will ask for the appearance of the various actors at stake, because we want to enrich its content and provide it with legal certainty enough to prevent the Constitutional Court from making its own, because we have legislative sovereignty in the matter of housing policies, because we want to exercise this legislative sovereignty, which gives us exclusive competence over a social right that in no case – in any case – can be put into question. In fact, we have doubts that there was no intention either of detailing these exclusive competitions that we have with the announced state housing law. Therefore, it is an objective of this procedure to obtain a rule that, driven by political forces and social entities, listening to and collecting proposals from the professional sector, those from the third sector, all entities from the third sector..., we will only ensure that it is a legally shielded standard instrument, which will allow us to improve the response of all parties involved before situations of urgent residential exclusion. We need to value the utility of the rule that comes out of this Parliament. It is our responsibility to the families that are being screened – it is our responsibility –; we cannot place these families in a situation of vulnerability affected by the effects of a rule that is submissive to instability. And another question that we would also like to raise: the expansion of the assumptions of the figure of the compulsory social loguer that the Constitutional Court has just annulled. This – we want to be clear – essentially obliges investment funds and also banks, but also physical and legal persons. And it can't be obvious that this type of measurement can generate a certain catch and also confrontation between the parts. And it's the mission of this Parliament trying to get these measures, isn't it? I'm just avoiding this confrontation of the parties. We cannot lose sight of the fact that we have between 3,500 and 4,000 petitions of social logger obligatori, which should have already been made with this Decree Law 17/2019, but the vast majority of banks, real estate managers, real estate funds also from the real estate crisis have not done so. And they didn't do it because they took advantage of the legal uncertainty that has been generated around this rule. And a point, just in this sense. From these 3,500, 4,000 habitats, 600 are from the Sareb, which passed this decree, it did not occur, and therefore I think that here we should place perhaps a little that the reluctances often do not come from the private sector, but also from entities of public capital. This is why you can make it clear in this way that it is not the same behaviour as financial entities, investment funds and management companies like Sareb, that the other subjects who also have the condition of great tempers, who are physical and legal people, but who often have a different predisposition before the solutions to the problem, and who have often even shared the need for secure housing. We do not want to place in the same bag a building to the Mine, a owner who has more than fifteen dwellings in a building of the Mine, than a fund of reversal that has three buildings to invest in the area of Pedralbes. That is why it is very important that this new law is useful, that there is a sound legal system and that it includes measures that are necessary to reduce these reticences. Well, in this sense, I don't think people will be suspected if I mention the Carme Trilla, who was a member of the tripartite government, the driving force behind the law of the right to housing, the current president of the Habitat 3 Foundation, the Metropolitan Observatory of Habitat. In his article« Of large owners and blurred concepts, Trilla exposes as excellent the news that the growth, between 2015 and 2019, of owners who are holders of more than five habitats. And she's happy about these data, because Trilla ensures that the owners who register more than five dwellings without any doubt will be assigned to the lodge. And this I think must be precisely the objective, the first great social objective to achieve. But it still goes further when there is a need to establish concertation agreements with all operators to offer a stable, stable, long-term, medium-sized or small, and to run away from the stellar and counter-productive debates of the ethical and blurry size of operators, because they are the large, medium-sized, public and private operators, the only ways to produce the necessary volumes of affordable housing. And from Juntes per Catalunya we are convinced that the right of habitation requires the concertation of everyone, to find the best and the most diverse solutions. And it is in this sense that we have repeatedly stated that the professional sector must no longer be seen as apart from the problem, both in access and in habitat loss, because it is also part of the solution. As a result, with a deep debate, with a solid legal basis, the future law must allow us to move forward with the objective of making the right of housing a subject right, which means that the public administration is obliged to guarantee this right of access to housing to vulnerable families, but also to our young people, also to our great ones. From public action to seek non-invasive formulas to facilitate access to a decent habitat. So now, for one band, we have better regulatory tools and more economic resources to facilitate access to housing. And that is why we have a great presumptive agreement of all – all – administrations, so that housing policies are no longer underfunded. As long as we do not reach this agreement, we must make every effort to achieve a new law which is, as I said, consensual, legally valid, useful for cases of accredited vulnerability, and which counts – above all, counts – with the different agents in the sector as part of this solution. Now it touches the National Habitating Pact, which model we fly for the habitating of Catalonia in the proper years. Here we have to be all, there are all people: vulnerable people, young people, large people and, above all, a balanced territory. Therefore, we count on all of you to make it possible. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.89.0	Next, and for the defense of the totality presented, has the word, on behalf of the Group Mixt, the deputy Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.90.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, today we are discussing a topic that is not unknown to us and surely the arguments will be the same, because this law we already know, or the text of this law came in the form of a decree to you, a decree that – as it has already been said here – was declared unconstitutional for the Constitutional Court. Mrs. Gloria Freixa said now, in this later intervention, that, of course, this creates a lot of legal uncertainty, right? , all these remedies before the Constitutional Court. Home, so if they don't want these laws or decrees to fit into the Constitution, there's a very easy way, which is not to skip the precepts of the Constitution. It is that, of course, in the end it seems that we are going for the sake of the Constitution. He also told the company of the commons, I think he did, that he said: "No, it is the People's Party that has proposed to win the Constitutional Court... No! What we have proposed to ourselves is a very simple thing, which is to respect the rights. And it is true that we are talking about the right to housing, but we are also talking about the right to private property, which is collected in Article 33 of the Constitution. Therefore, I repeat: if what we want is legal certainty, if what we want to do is, then, read with a legislative quality that comes out of this Parliament and that does not have to go to the Constitutional, it is as easy as respecting the mechanisms that are reflected in the own Constitution and the competences that the Catalan Parliament has; it is that there is no more, I mean, it is as simple as that. It was also the company of the CUP, the deputy of the CUP, that we questioned, in this appeal that we put before the Constitutional, the urgent need for housing. What we were asking was, first, the form, I insist, and here's the urgency; that's to say, you told us that you had to send a decree to the law for the urgent need of the matter. And it's not like that – it's not like that. And so much so that, I insist, the Constitutional Court gave us the right, in this sense. First, because it's not the right mechanism, and it really didn't give this urgency. And, according to them, because, in addition, there was an attempt to legislate rights that are returned to the Constitution by means of a decree that is not designed for this type of disposition. Therefore, I insist on the same: what we have to do is sort out the right mechanisms to legislate, and, if not, obviously, we will see that we are engaged in bringing the questions to the Constitutional. Also, another of the interventions that have been given here, and that I think was the deputy Morales... There is one thing that fascinates me, the truth: you have a facility to qualify it all as repression... Now this; this is repression, too, right? It's like the magic wild. They always talk about repression. Home, therefore, if we talk about repression when it comes to social housing, perhaps repression is exercised by the Generality, because it is because the public park of "living leaves much to be desired. So let's focus a little on the issue and not throw, a little, of mantras, because I don't think they're really helping us in anything. As I said, we challenged this law for various questions; one of them was a formal question, but also for material questions. The Constitutional Court went only to settle the formal question, and since it already estimated the appeal here, it did not go into the material questions. But we continue to believe that this affects certain articles of the Constitution and that they can make the law that can come out of this position again be subject to an appeal of unconstitutionality. And I am talking, for example, about a possible violation of Article 14, because, somehow, what we are causing is that the right to private property here in Catalonia is weaker than in other parts of the Spanish territory. There may also be a possible violation of the principle of guilt or responsibility, reflected in Article 25.1 of the Constitution, because it allows the owner to sanction the behavior of the previous owner. And we also believe that the obligation to offer a social logger violates, in this case, the principle of autonomy of the will because it establishes an irrational and disproportionate eligibility requirement, as, certainly, it has already recognized the Council of State Guarantees. Therefore, we understand that there are questions of foundations that make, therefore, that some of the precepts of this can be declared unconstitutional. And we'll see, in the end, what's left of the law that can get out of here, the articles, and we'll go into the detail. But, to the group of these questions, which are purely legal, to say the least, we also have other types of consideration – and it has been mentioned here –: perhaps what we need to talk about is the housing model. I think this is where we have the problems, and they're structural problems. What we can't do is regulate the housing under decree, because we had a first decree, which we had to withdraw because there wasn't the necessary support; they did a_second intent, and at the end it couldn't be validated, because the vote dropped it; then a third decree, which ended before the Constitutional and which the Constitutional dropped it, and now they have converted this decree into law to try to save this obstacle in form, which is what the Constitutional Court told you. Home, maybe this isn't the way. Maybe to legislate the housing model through decrees and decrees that don't work, or you know what they do is to practically copy the same decrees that have fallen on them, maybe that's not the way, it's not the way. I think it's obvious that the housing policies that have gone so far don't work – don't work. We have not seen the consequences of a long time ago and, moreover, the situation we live in, hard – hard –..., said the company of the UPC that we do not recognize urgency. Yes, we recognize the urgency and the problem, but what we need to look for are good and workable solutions. And what we can't do is blame one another, but don't see the blame of the other, which in this case is the Government of the Generality, which is not doing the dues – which is not doing the dues. A situation that was already difficult and that has obviously worsened now, therefore, with this social and economic crisis resulting from the pandemic of the covid-19 and the need for urgent housing that was going on. We have already said that we need to expand the housing stock to provide free, affordable and social housing. We're going to be very hard on this question. There's been a lot of promises made from this vase, and then they're not complete. Therefore, I insist that we must see responsibility for both sides and not just blame one of them. There's an increase in the Emergence Table's waiting list. We have six hundred families now inscribed on this table and, surely, in the next few months, we are going to be worse. The data we have, for example, in Barcelona: one_of_each_three people have problems accessing or maintaining the habitat they have, a habitat, obviously, in conditions of dignity and security. It is clear that housing has become one of the first causes of exclusion, but more importantly, I believe that the data we have from this table of emergence certainly do not correspond to reality; I believe that real data is still worse. Why? So, for example, families who are illegally occupying a dwelling cannot access the housing emergency table. Therefore, it would certainly be useful to do a more accurate study to know the real needs that we have in this sense. And it turns out that I am talking about the problem of occupation, that you know that we, therefore, are particularly concerned, but, as we have said many times, we need to make a distinction, in this sense: for one gang, we have okupes who dedicate themselves and who negotiate the illegal occupation of "lives", and, for another gang, we need social emergence in families who are going through a lot of trouble and who certainly do not want to be in this situation of occupation, and that, for that reason, we, the Administration, must accompany them and they must seek a solution, in this sense. And so – we have the counselor here – I think it's important that we think about these issues, especially because it will certainly make things worse in the next few months. I think we're only seeing the peak of this crisis, but it's going to get worse, because the data is what it is, right? And we're in the situation we're in. Well, I told you before the general didn't do the dues. I think we'll all agree here. We in the previous legislature saw how it continued to be only public in private, but no public housing was built. For example, in Barcelona, specifically the Generality Habitat Consortium, so it is not complete with its commitment, it has only completed with a 20_per_cent of its responsibility. The compromise was sixty per cent. We're in a wind. It's just that I insist we have to be realistic about the situation we have. Two years ago, a public-private operator was expected to expand the eligible housing stock, which had to be built 4,500 housing units. We're still waiting for news of this, too. I've been waiting for two years. I used to, didn't I? , for example, Constellera Cervera told us these days, therefore, that they will allocate 1,000_million euros to public housing by the end of 2022. We celebrate it, obviously we do, but, of course, it's that these promises aren't the first time they've been made to us, and then that's not... well, they don't translate absolutely into anything. And we got stuck and years went by, and that's not concrete. Therefore, I insist that if there really is this firm commitment of the Generality they will find us on the side, obviously they will; but what we want are promises and we don't smoke, because there are people, I insist, that it is going very badly. And it's not a new thing. Therefore, the need for public housing is a fault that we are already carrying, a structural fault, and I insist that the way to solve it is not a matter of decree and it is not a matter of law that will surely end in the Constitutional Court, because in the end this is blocking the issue and we cannot pull it forward. For example, also in the case of Barcelona, the obligation to reserve thirty_per_cent of real estate promotions to public housing. That didn't exactly work out. Two years after the entry into force, we have not yet been able to see the results of this thirty_per_cent obligation. What we could prove, for example, is that the new construction has paralyzed. Why? Because this scares investors and, more importantly, it also increases the prices of housing. It's been tried to regulate too... the regulation of the caterers. And it doesn't work. It's not that it doesn't work just here, it's that it doesn't work in the rest of Spain and it doesn't work in the international arena either. And if not, then we see what happened in Paris or what happened in Berlin. I think we have great examples already at international level, in great cities of Europe, where we see that this limitation of the prices of food is to take steps back. Therefore, I insist on the need to find good mechanisms and good solutions. Here, the Banc d'Espanya in its report has already warned, therefore, that these regulatory measures have a very negative impact on the long term and the international evidence showing that it is a measure that does not lead to the expansion of the offer, but the opposite, and more so also involves a major deterioration of the buildings. I think I have a few minutes left and I have a lot to say, but I insist that it's a debate that we've already had here, that I think that what we can't do is just blame one side and just protect the rights of some, but we obviously need to protect the right to housing, but we also need to protect the right to private property. We believe that this law will not solve the problem of access to housing; it continues to designate the private as the person responsible, it is left to the public administration, who has not done the dues. It's a law that violates the right to private property again. Why? Because, I say the same thing again, it just talks about the rights on the one hand, it doesn't talk about the rights on the other. And when I'm talking about defending the right to private property, I want to remember the little owners, the little owners who are totally lost to this law. This also creates legal uncertainty. And let's see how this reverses the offer of logger. This will ultimately be counterproductive. With this law the possibilities of expropriation are broadened – I return to say: unemployed and abandoned, the small owners–; legitimize the occupation without title. As a matter of fact, I believe that the solution passes..., to see if it is certain that this compromise by 2022 can be fulfilled, but I believe that the solution passes to expand the suitable housing park, more social housing, more help for rehabilitation as well. I believe that we must also make policies that encourage public-private collaboration. Don't force it, but encourage it. Sometimes this brings better results than not requiring them. I repeat again that we do not have to hold the private party responsible for what does not do the Administration. And last but not least, I only have one minute left, we also have doubts about some of the new articles that have been included, that were not part of the decree law, that have appeared again in this text that is presented today, such as, for example, Article 1.10, of the sub-administration of data, 1.2, the register of great owners... I don't know..., because it does me for. When here it is proposed to make lists and registers of people to me by. I don't know what they want to do with these records, what they need to know about these data, and I'd like to know what the intent and purpose of this registry is. But, as I said, I think we need to focus on the policy of rights, of course: right to housing, right to food, right to salvation – it has been talked about here – but we can't make it clear that the Government of the Generality also has obligations. Its obligation is, for example, to provide housing with a right and to take account of this public housing park. Therefore, today we present this goal to the totality, I insist, for reasons of form, but also for reasons of background, and we would be loving to see how the text of the law finally stands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.91.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Andrés Bello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.92.0	Good morning, Madam President. Members of Parliament, the parliamentary groups that make up the current government – Esquerra Republicana, Junts, who supports you, CUP and En Comú Puem – present today a proposal for a law of urgent measures to deal with the housing emergency. First of all, it must be said that the two groups that form the government today have ruled continuously over the past forty years, and that if there is a housing emergency today..., no one denies it – someone has accused around that we denied it existed, no one denies it, exists – but if today there is a housing emergency against which urgent action is to be taken, it is solely due to its disastrous management during these forty years. It is enough to remember once again that the different nationalist governments, and unfortunately this is no exception, have prioritized spending on their secessionist delusions and on their chiringuitos, forgetting what really matters, and in the case we are dealing with today, housing. And, proposers, in addition to laws, decrees laws, rumbling plans, grandiose pacts, in addition to all this, one must know how to manage day by day. And I think they've been showing obvious signs for forty years that they can't do it. That's why we're here today talking about this emergency and this emergency, isn't it? We believe that, in the face of such an important problem as housing, there should be a broad public debate to assess the different alternatives presented by political groups. Organizations, social groups and experts in this area, which I believe have forgotten, should also participate in this debate. It seems that you, on the other hand, only care about the opinion of the so-called so-called housing unions, co-sponsored by members of the radical left. From this debate and from the confrontation of proposals should come forth measures that would result in housing no longer being one of the main problems of the citizens of Catalonia. Instead of this confrontation of proposals, the Government of the Generalitat has chosen to hide this debate from the citizenry, probably with the intention of hiding the results of its management. And it has done so by twisting the legislative technique and resorting to the decree law to regulate matters for which it, the decree law, could not be used. This has been recalled by the Constitutional Court in its well-known judgement of 28 January this year, to which reference has repeatedly been made, in which it declares the unconstitutionality of numerous articles. This unconstitutionality has resulted in having to go to the ordinary legislative process, and that is why we are all here today. But, once again, the secessionist parties, with the support of Podemos or what they call themselves here, demonstrate their lack of transparency by stealing from the citizens of Catalonia the public debate necessary to address the problem of housing and its possible solutions. And they do so with the help of the Bureau of this Parliament, going to the emergency statement. But in case it is not enough to cut the time limits by half, as stated in Rule 107.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Catalan Parliament, they declare them of extraordinary urgency to reduce the even more. The intention, it seems obvious, is to steal that public debate and hide that the current housing problem has caused it, I say again, forty years of nationalist misgovernment. Entering into the content of the proposed law that is the subject of this debate, it must be said that the measures it establishes go in the opposite direction to what we believe it should have if what is intended is to solve the problem of housing in Catalonia. To that end, we have tabled an amendment to the whole to prevent the set of errors that constitute this rule from having the status of law. I am not going to repeat the legal arguments, which I believe we largely agree with the previous rapporteur; nor do we have any doubts about the unconstitutionality of some of the precepts, and we will have your time to discuss it; but the implementation of this proposal..., a previous rapporteur has told us that they are going to try to make no change at all. As I said, its application, should it be approved, will mean further deepening the deterioration of the housing market in Catalonia, harming society in general, but especially the most disadvantaged. Surprisingly, the lack of public alternatives to the housing market is recognized in an exercise of sincerity of the very statement of reasons for this proposed law. In good logic, in the face of this sincere diagnosis, the good manager would provide public resources to solve the problem, and in the face of the economic and budgetary crisis it would change the priorities of expenditure: it would eliminate the expenditure generated by bodies duplicated with the State, it would eliminate unnecessary and superfluous expenditure, such as the so-called ‘chiringuitos', as well as the one that only has or mainly has the aim of maintaining the process, such as TV3 or the Diplomat. By the way, of those who live stupendously so many secessionist politicians. This would, as I said, the good manager, which is not the case, as is obvious. What, on the other hand, are our secessionist politicians doing? To blame someone else. Does that ring a bell? As per article 137 of the Statute of Self-Government, the Generalitat has exclusive jurisdiction over housing, in this case it is very difficult to blame the situation of housing emergency in the State, which is usually the case, is it not? However, our secessionist politicians do not let reality spoil a good headline, in this case a bill, so they have sought other scapegoats. We've heard them there, here, before, but they're written in the bill. They've found some. They have found the financial institutions, the investment funds, which here put them, in the end, qualifiers of animals, "the great forbearers, and, of course, the Constitutional Court, eh? The Spanish State should, in one way or another, be on the list of culprits. But that is true, the nationalist governments that have ruled continuously in Catalonia for the past forty years are not to blame for anything. It's amazing to defach her. We are proposed, in this proposal of law, more of the same: attacks on private property with expropriation threats, attacks on contractual freedom, regulating not only the content of leases, but also forcing the owner to lease. Public sector obligations are being transferred to private homeowners. The proposed package of coercive and liberticidal measures will result in a contraction in housing supply and an increase in prices. VOX's proposals on housing go in an opposite direction to that of this proposed law. We believe that the involvement of the private sector, which has repeatedly been demonised here, is essential for the exit from the crisis that plagues the housing sector. Listening to him and knowing what are the impediments that discourages them from investing, seems to us fundamental. We must dialogue rather than impose, as this proposal for a law does. We believe that the market must be given confidence, and the first step is to give legal certainty. Just to see – it has also been mentioned above – the large number of laws, decrees laws – a tremendous legislative maraña, isn't it? – that have come out of this Parliament in recent years to check. Regulatory changes are ongoing, giving the sector's legal framework great uncertainty. Continued and increasing interventionism in the sector must also be avoided. Instead, we believe that public-private collaboration should be facilitated. As we have said, this must be accompanied by an increase in the public budget for housing, and especially for the most disadvantaged groups. Instead of coercive measures and threatening the obligation to lease, with sanctions or expropriations, incentive rules should be laid down that encourage investors to build or rehabilitate homes, and owners to rent those they own. From VOX we defend the right to private property and the constitutional right to a decent housing for all Spaniards. That is why we have tabled this amendment in its entirety and why we oppose the content of the law. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.93.0	Next and for a turn against, has the word, on behalf of the four proposing groups, Ms. Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.94.0	Well, I'm doing this in the name of all the proposing groups. I have plenty of time; I have only five minutes. I don't know if I'll be able to answer all the interventions. Well, what is visible here today is a solid parliamentary majority of this Parliament; a parliament that is going to rise, that has competence, that has exclusive competence and exercise. And what would be totally unacceptable is that those who have their hands to legislate on such a hot topic, do not. So we're doing what we have to do. They tell us from Ciutadans that... well, that now... that laws are used a lot and that this... legal insecurity. Listen to me, the same Constitutional Court – you who are so constitutionalists – is saying that you can use the figure of the law decree, that this was not the problem for the issue of urgency, of immediateness, but that the problem was because the right to property was affected and that it was to be done for you. All right, we're making a law. What's the problem now? You, who's doing with her now, it's not good either. We are told by Article 14, which may be opposed to the equality of citizens. Listen to me, it's that if you allude to Article 14, let's fold, because any legislation that comes out of a parliament that is not the center can have an impact on Article 14. Therefore, you cannot attach this article to load the parliamentary sobrieties of parliaments. You're talking about autonomy on your own. You know perfectly well that the autonomy of the will also has limits in the same law and in public order, that it is not an absolute principle that allows us to do anything. He also talks to us about... well, we learn that things have not been done well and he gives us alternatives, that there is not enough public housing. But if precisely what we are voting on is introducing measures to increase the public housing stock! That the public housing park not only grows through construction, also through other measures. And he's carrying a law that increases public park, and you don't look well either, but he's still complaining about an increase in public park. He's giving us more lessons. What I would like is for you to reflect on, not to aim at bringing together so much in the matter of how to solve the right to housing, when I would like to remind you that it was you who, in the year 98, from the hand of Mr. José María Aznar, drew one of the most reprehensible laws and who have done more harm to housing in the legal history of the Spanish State, as was the law of the soil. You changed the rules until that moment, and you had the great idea to say: "If we now liberalize the soil, what we would do is lower the price of the habitation. Well, that... it turned out that his reception to solve the issue of housing was implemented and was an absolute failure. It did not lower the price of housing in absolute nothing, but what was done was that the prices increased exorbitantly and that you exist in the country one of the most bad real estate cylinders ever known. Therefore, from the lessons of what must be done to guarantee the right to housing, few, because when you have proposed them, the few times you have proposed them, have been absolutely dramatic. I also want to make reference..., of course, VOX, as always, with its mantra of the « chiringuitos, of the « confidence in the market, that the market itself will solve the issue, that with self-regulation everything will be solved... See, I believe that its speeches go into internal contradiction. What you can't do is start this speech, they recognize that there is an emergence, that we already want you to recognize it, that there is this emergence; then, say that in forty years nothing has been done, okay? , and then..., say this and say that the market..., that we have to let the market act. Listen, if you say that there is emergence, that in forty years nothing has happened and, then, its reception is that the market acts..., do you see that this contradicts? Therefore, the receipt can only be the market acting, because the market neither acts nor solves anything. And lastly, you too, with the mantra of criminalizing the housing unions, which from here, from this rostrum, we want to recognize all your work done to guarantee this right. What happens to you is that you have hives on social movements as the key piece to generate conflict that allows you to advance, that challenges the prevailing regime, that propose changes through collective action and denounce, ultimately, speculation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.95.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And, then, to express its position, has the words of Mrs Eva Candela, of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.96.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Counselor, for being here today. I don't know if a lot of good day or a lot of good noon; in català, that's midday..., so as capvespre we've got it, midday we haven't solved it yet. In any case, very good morning to all the Members and Members. Well, in this plenary, this chamber, there has been much talk about the situation of access to housing and I am sure that there will still be many more hours of work and debate that we will have in their committees, in their working groups and in the plenary, given that it is one of the major concerns of our citizens. And I would like to thank Mrs Vinyets for the explanation she gave us from the right to housing law. I think today was a good day to reflect on the Llei 24/2015. Many times, it's true, we go to law school and forget about the good mother we have for the right to housing. Already in the first Ple of this legislature there were three motions, presented by different groups of this chamber, to talk about housing. And today we have here the proposal for the law to expand urgent measures to deal with the housing emergency. I am not going to go in today to donate data, which is sufficiently explained in the motivating statement of the law's proposal and which, in any case, in the processing process I think we can..., whatever is urgent, we can finish evaluating and, if appropriate, updating. But I would like to refer to the words of Councillor Calvet at the plenary session on February 5, 2020, in the validation debate of Decree Illi 17/2019. At that time Councilman Calvet said: "The country cannot wait for the time involved in a process of drafting an ordinary law to deal with the following five issues. That's what I was saying in a moment... when the previous year had already had to withdraw from the order of plenary day a decree of law in the same sense as the one he was carrying, because he didn't have the necessary consent to validate it. We couldn't wait to process it like the law. But now we find ourselves here, again, to give him a processing like the bill. And it's been a year. I'm sure they'll say to me, "Mrs. MP, it's because of the Constitutional Court that we have to do it. So, let me tell you two things. First, in this plenary, we all have the responsibility to serve the citizens in the best way possible, which is why we are here. And I still point out more: more responsibility lies with the government and it is up to it to present the proposals as they touch, according to the norms and the law, because of them the expectations and the life plans of our citizens. And another thing: in case the Decree Law 17/2019 has not been brought to the Constitutional Court and, therefore, there has not been a ruling on this, a miscarriage leaves the open camp to the great tenors to bring to the courts the consignors who are being processed for incompliment. And you all know, that's so it wouldn't be the first time they've done it. I'd like to give you an example. They have already done so, in many cases, when some gatherings have begun to punish great modests for failing to fulfil the social function of the habitats of their property. And they're based on the fact that the joints weren't competent. I'm going out. Many efforts of the local world, before the housing emergency, to see'sabocats to contràrias sentientes to the incaats expedients. And from these gatherings we were asking the government and the council for a decree that would clarify the powers, which would clarify which administration was competent to sanction; that was a matter that came a long way. With that, what do I mean? That we have to do things well girls and that time shows us. Because, if not, we waste time, and time, in matters like this, it's gold. And today we are talking about urgent measures, but we have all said and we know that measures are also taking place in the medium and long term. A medium and long term, the truth, seems that every day that passes is more long; it is medium, long and every day is more long. And this way we can't stand up to the right to habitat. Let's talk, the past Ple, about the sectoral territorial plan of habitating, and this was already spoken of in Decree Law 17/2019, where, in its additional fourth provision, it said that the Government had to approve it in a year. This year has passed. I, in the proposal submitted by the Comú Puem, proposed that it be approved in three months. The government asked to move and it was at the end of the year. Well, shall we, at the end of 2021, counsel? Can we have the approval of the sectoral territorial housing plan? Because mid- and long-term measurements and planning are already in a hurry. We also talked about a new national pact for housing, which will have to be pushed in three months. We'll be there for 15 days, August will be there, three months will pass. Let's talk about the premise for habitating, to more than one other measure. And the truth is, it's work, work and commitment when we move forward. And let me tell you this: don't look for more excuses already – that if there's money that doesn't come, that if the Constitutional Court... we get to work seriously and move forward, because it's too late. As for the bill that we are dealing with today, recovering Decree 17/2019, our parliamentary group has already expressed the commitment to work and present the ideas that we believe are appropriate. Today, our group will vote against the totality papers presented for the Mixed Group and for VOX, and we will, in its committee, work. And it would also place Mrs Roldán and her group of citizens to whom you contribute, who came to debate. We'll wait for you, too. Excuse me, PP. Excuse me. [[Rialles.]] It seems to me that this time I will not avoid going out to Poland, which, the truth, makes me quite illusory. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.97.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Candela. And then has the word, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.98.0	Thank you, President. Now yes, in the name of Ciutadans, because I believe that Mrs. Vinyets has also been wrong before. Citizens, a liberal proposal, in this case. We will try to explain or at least expose our position before this law proposal. They will allow me to begin or focus my intervention in some reflections. I think that already, after two hours of debate, everything has been said practically, and I wanted to go into some reflections that I think can be interesting for everyone or, like at least, even that it is a time to go dinar, so they can have some interest in debate or at the time to hear what our position is. The first question we ask ourselves, or our first reflection, is: is there a problem of housing emergence in Catalonia? I think we all have to answer that question. Yes, we have a housing problem in Catalonia, not because we say it, but because it reveals the reality to us. We are the community with the most denunciations of all Spain, with a sixty-eight_per_cent, which, of course, are already loguers. He's changed the decoy pattern. Unfortunately, also mortgages, which are now thirty-five per cent, in this case. They've also raised the lodgers, the last seven years. And we also have to say that families, especially middle-class families, devote much more resources than their monthly income to paying the logger or to paying, in some cases, mortgages. Is there social emergence drifting into housing emergence? Obviously, too, yes. And that's been accentuated. It will become more pronounced with the pandemic; we'll see about that. And, therefore, another reflection, another response that I believe we share. The reality of the economic situation in Catalonia seems to me to be far, many times, distant from the discourse on the part of the Government, certainly optimistic, in some cases triumphalist, at least from the last governments of the Generality. I think the data says it, and it's bloody: 97,000 dollars in Catalonia with no tickets of any kind – data of the same law, on the exhibition side – and 152,400 dollars with all its members at the time. Therefore, there is a social emergence and there is a housing emergence that derives from that. Do we have problems with access – to continue evolving – to housing in Catalonia by middle classes and workers? We've got it. There has been no talk of middle and working classes, which I believe are in the end the majority, but they also have a problem with access to housing in Catalonia. The change in mortgage policies, in fact, and the resulting increase in the demand for housing to be logged, in a market that was not prepared thirty years ago, has translated the lack of offer and, therefore, the increase in the price of logged to the citizen, to all citizens, who now, as I said before, have to devote much more of their income to housing. Has it been political – another question – effective habitating in Catalonia? So no, it didn't – it didn't. Effective housing policy in Catalonia has not been done, because the data... As I said before, there is a social emergence, a housing emergence and, obviously, there is a foothold on the income of middle classes from access to "very large living." Therefore, it has not been done; it has not been done politically. This is important to come up with conclusions about what we need to make or not about this law. Has Catalonia been sufficiently invested in creating public housing? No, no, We are at the bottom of the Spanish medium in reversal in public housing. We have not completed the objectives of the law approved for this Parliament in 2007, and we are far from the goal of fifteen per cent of public housing in Catalonia, and we have six years to complete it – we are on both; so I think we will hardly get there. That, of course, this part of the 2007 law hasn't changed, and I think we should also get to work on this part, not be so specific on any of the parts we're dealing with today. Have we, therefore, implemented our laws, some of which are being modified today? So no. It's very funny, because that's a lot going on in Catalonia: let's read it, let's not develop it, let's not implant it. We don't create the right rules to implement them. Or do we know that we could call it democratic legislation, these laws that we do not do well to see if the Constitution tells us that they are not girls and, therefore, we can say that there is an external enemy and thus lose years, time, resources, investments..., and, therefore, also have excuses and political arguments in this case. And many times some of the laws that might have been implemented are not done, are not implemented. And the last question, before we talk about other parts of what is proposed today. Resol – what is important – this law, the problems of housing emergence in Catalonia? So no, I don't think so, because this law is a modification, an evolution, a development of the laws of 18/2007, 24/2015 and 4/2016. Therefore, we believe that it will not solve this problem of housing emergence or its evolution. So I think it's a sterilized law, as it's proven to be, because it's basic, basically – and that's what it's said, but it's true, or so I think it's basic – in expropriation and coercive measures, and criminalization, many times, of private initiative, including creating that dogma of faith of the great masters who solve it all and who are guilty, in this case, of everything. In fact, this... I would call it the "legislative ritual" that they perform in every legislature, to talk about housing in this case, but I think we can't enter, or we can't believe that we can solve the problems of housing emergence only with this law. Why? So look, because I believe that housing emergence has to face a public housing policy that requires, ladies and gentlemen, investments and construction of new works in many cases. It acts on housing emergence when it acts on the general problem of access to housing; when a housing policy is planned to influence the real estate market; through the offer and, in this way, on prices; with regulation, yes, but acting. And then, acting on the system's conjunction: they can define specific policies – yes, then – on the emergences or, in this case, the housing emergence, which I think should be focused not on what this law focuses on, this law proposal, but on the generation of incentives. We must be more creative, in this case, we must seek the will of the private owner to participate in our public and social housing park. What could we have done – and here I enter into one of our dogmas that we've been defending since 2016 – with the 1,000_million-years that Ciutadans has been defending since 2006? If we add the 1,000_millions that have not been invested since 2006, about 6,000_millions in this case – 6,000_millions, 6,000_millions. I'm telling you why they're, maybe, a little... I know they're a little into it, but we're done, huh? - We're finished, ja. With these 6,000_millions that haven't been used for public housing in Catalonia? So surely much more than with the 1,000_millions; that, in fact, only 1,000_millions have been reversed since 2006. One thousand, in fact, the government, versus the 6,000 we're proposing. Therefore – and I will say the magic word in this case – to end up – to end up, ladies and gentlemen – I think that we cannot do anything else that... In this case, we want this law to be passed, we want to modify it, we want to do the things that we want to do. We will abstain in the totality papers presented for the People's Party and for VOX, and we will simply believe that the path is another path, the path to the solution, in this case, of the "living, is to have a housing policy, a cross-cutting policy, which does not have, in principle, therefore..., that does not make the private initiative of its functions renounce, but at the same time that it is not coercive, that it is not tax-free, but rather a proposal and incentive. Thank you to all, deputies, deputies, president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.99.0	Thank you very much, Mr. García. And now, after the debate, we shall proceed to the joint vote of the two items to the full return of the bill's proposal. If Members take their seats, we will begin the vote. [[Pause.]] [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Roldan?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.100.0	Yes; I'm sorry, President, it's just to corroborate where I have the delegation of the vote, whether in my escho or in the president's.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.101.0	One moment, one moment... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You're right. Yeah, now they're confirming it. Thank you. Perfect. So let's start the vote. Total votes were rejected with 112 votes against, 13 votes in favour and 7 abstentions, with which this initiative continues to be dealt with. Thank you very much. We suspend the session until four o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.280.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the President's speech have not been recorded.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into university entrance tests for batting students]] [[302-00011/13]] ...asking the government about university entrance tests for baccalaureate students. It is a motion submitted for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. And to expose it, has the word the deputy Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.102.0	Thank you, President. Well, ladies and gentlemen, today we are bringing a motion which comes from an earlier question, in which we were basically talking about an episode..., well, not an episode, from a rather general question, which is the fact that in this year's selectivity, as in previous years, because, it has not been given, the examination of the pupils who presented themselves to selectivity has not been given, of the Catalan pupils who presented themselves to selectivity, in the three official languages of Catalonia: Catalan, Spanish and Aran. But they've only been handed over in Catalan. As has been done before, but after a judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, which required that examinations be delivered directly in all three languages. That it was not necessary for a pupil to raise his or her hand in order to have his or her right to receive the examination, also in his or her mother tongue, if it is Spanish, in this case. And in any case, in the three official languages of Catalonia: Catalan, Castilian and Spider. That is basically the recognition of a right. And what's going on? Why is this happening in Catalonia? For fundamentally because unfortunately in Catalonia there is a contempt, not to say an institutional contempt of the Spanish language. Of the language, by the way, of the majority of the citizens of Catalonia. As if it wasn't the majority. In any case, Catalan and Spanish are the majority languages of Catalonia. The Arane is also the official language of Catalonia. And that recognition, that lack of recognition of the Spanish as a language, also proper to the citizens of Catalonia, but official in the whole of Spain and because it is very majority among Catalans, seems to us a problem of lack of democratic quality in Catalonia. That institutional contempt of the Castilian we saw yesterday, with statements such as those made by Mrs Vilalta, the spokesman for Esquerra Republicana, Mrs Vilalta, who said that in Spanish there is no equivalent of the verb « to root in Catalan, and for something it will be. The good thing is that the Speaker of the Parliament was telling us, forgetting the second part, that that was very normal, that they were semantic disquisitions. That it was very usual to do the ones. Forgetting that the important thing was not whether or not there was an equivalent of ‘raising in Spanish', but that the important thing was that a Member of Parliament, a policy – in this case of the Republican Left – dares to say that ‘for something it will be. Insinuating in a clear way that this word, in Spanish, as beautiful as it is "raionar", does not exist because the Spanish-speaking, or the Spanish-speaking, so to speak, for the brave, because they do not know what reason is. They don't know what it's like to reason. Little less than that is what Mrs.Vilalta came to say. Some laugh, I don't know what fun it should be. But, in any case, we, des de Ciudadanos, denounce this institutional contempt of the Castilian because we want, precisely, a Catalan society, which is recognized plural and bilingual, as it has always been. Spanish has been a native language of Catalans since time immemorial. And the problem is that Catalan nationalism hates, despises everything that has to do with the rest of Spain, with the Spanish. Already said Prat de la Riba, in 1906, on the line..., Vilalta goes on the line Prat de la Riba, despite being from Esquerra Republicana and Prat de la Riba of what was supposed to be the nationalist right. He said that the first phase of the process of nationalization of Catalans would be love, and the second would be hate. I quote. Prat de la Riba said that the second phase of the Catalan catalanization process would hate it. The hatred of the Castilian. I hate what's not proper. The hatred of the rest of Spain. I hate Castile. Well, of those hatreds of over a hundred years ago, we still see examples in this Parliament of Catalonia, by the separatist parties, by representatives of the separatist parties. It's a real shame. Because Catalonia is a bilingual society. A plural society, different. In which most of us express ourselves with absolute normality in Catalan and Spanish. I do not want for my children examples like that of Mrs.Vilalta, who despises the other language of Catalans, we will never despise in Citizens. And most of the citizens of Catalonia, the Spanish-speaking or Catalan-speaking, we will never despise the other language. I will never despise, of course, that I use either language indistinctly, the Catalan language as Mrs Vilalta did. I want for my children an education, a process of feeling Catalan and also of Spanish, respectful of their own plurality. Respectful with that diversity of Catalonia. Respectful with that story that says that the Castilian is a native language of Catalans since the times of Jeroni Pujades, Joan Boscà, Narcís Feliu de la Penya, of so many and so many others..., Antoni de Capmany, who have done great works being Catalans, great works in the Castilian language. I want a Catalonia, for my children, to feel proud and I want my children to feel as their own the two languages. I want you to admire Pla, I want you to admire Rodoreda. I want you to admire Eugeni d'Ors. I want you to admire Joan Vinyoli. I want you to admire Carles Riba. I want you to admire so many great Catalan-language literatures, but I also want you to admire Juan Marsé. I also want you to admire Eduardo Mendoza. I also want you to admire Carmen Laforet. And let them not despise, as Mrs.Vilalta does, what has important the Spanish language for Catalonia. That's the point. All we ask, from Citizens, is that. Respect for the linguistic pluralism of Catalonia. And respect for the condition of Spanish as a language, also Catalan, just like Catalan. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.103.0	Thank you very much. She now has the word to present the papers and defend them, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Avançar, the deputy Sílvia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.104.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know and should share that the Catalan language acts as the agent of social cohesion and equal opportunities. For the socialists, language is not, has not been or will be an element of confrontation. Because protecting the català does not run counter to the knowledge and use of other languages. They're either official or they're not. Because protecting the català does not run counter to the linguistic rights of Spanish speakers. It's the opposite. Protecting Catalan is in favour of multilingualism, which is the majority linguistic reality in the world. On, as you know, there are only two monolingual states. And it's also the linguistic reality of Catalonia. We, the gang of official languages, speak more than three hundred. We understand that having the statements of the university entrance exams in the three official languages guarantees the language rights of the student. As it also guarantees you can solve the exams of the PAU in the official language that the student learns, with total respect and naturality. And an important consideration, if I may. That at PAUs or in any other communicative situation, the student can demonstrate linguistic competence in català, in castella, in occità, is also a linguistic right. Individual and social. And this is precisely our collective success. This is the success of our education system, our education model. They can express it with data. Who are the young people's linguistic skills in the university entrance exam? The average scores in the PAU language exams are practically identical. In Spanish, 6.77_per_cent. In Catalan language, 6.75_per_cent. And they register better readers, year after year, fortunately, according to the latest report on language policy. And these data are fully consistent with the results of the assessment of language skills in primary school. We are donated around the seventy-five percent of the solace of linguistic competence, both in català and in castella. And these data are fully consistent with the results of the assessment of ESO-quarters: 68.8_per_cent of the student has a medium, high and high level of linguistic competence in Catalan, and 69.7_per_cent of the student's tea in castella. As you know, we have an extensive legal framework which regulates and makes possible the protection of Catalonia and the acquisition of linguistic competence in the official languages of Catalonia: Articles 6, 35, 50, 131, 143, of the Statute of Catalonia's Autonomy; Articles 10, 11, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 of the Law of Education; Article 6 of the Law of Universities; Articles 20, 21, 22, of the Law of Language Policy; Articles 2, 3, 14, 15, of the Law of the West, Spiders in Aran. Thus, to argue that a person of first language speaking Spanish is in inferiority of conditions before the utterances in Catalan language, or on the other hand, we believe that he denies the functioning of our educational system and does not have any real basis. In the words of the master and linguist Jesús Tusón, "a language, any of the three or four thousand in which language is admired, is the common home of all those who have the key of their springs. The education system guarantees linguistic competence in official languages. And this is also a guarantee of respect for linguistic rights. And it's a lot more, it's an infallible passport for PAUs and any communicative situation. Our group has presented a message to the quarter of this young man, in the sense of likening the Government of the Generality to continue to ensure the availability of statements to the PAU, in the three official languages. At this point, therefore, that this item has not been accepted by the proposers, we will vote against this point. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.105.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.106.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about freedom and the future. Thousands of young Catalans and the whole of Spain, after years of study and preparation, play their future in the tests of access to the university. PAU tests are a crucial moment for the academic, professional and work future of thousands of Catalan students. And such evidence must take place on equal terms and without any discrimination or coercion, which could harm its outcome. Once again, the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia, complying with the instructions of separatism, restricted the freedom of Catalan students, failing to comply with the decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, which supported the students' rights to receive the exams in Catalan, Spanish or Spider, individually. They manipulated the selectivity courts in a biased and sectarian manner, in order to force the students to signify themselves publicly and classifying them as incidence when a student chose the model in Spanish. They even scored on a list the names of the students who voluntarily chose to examine in Spanish. Gentlemen, this is a shame. And we all know what can happen to a student when it is publicly signified in a class when it is directed by a separatist. Because there are thousands of Catalans who suffer constant harassment and reprimands from activists who have become teachers. Gentlemen, get out on the street, talk to the Catalans, because you are going to hear heartbreaking testimonies of situations that happen every day, in the Catalan educational and indoctrination system. Like the testimony of Xavi, thirteen years old, who was publicly humiliated by his teacher in class, in front of all his companions, for wearing in the mask of Spain, the national teaching. Ladies and gentlemen, will you continue to maintain this system of constant indoctrination to which thousands of children are subjected? Will you continue to allow the children who proudly feel Spanish, the children of our military, our civilian guards and thousands of Catalan children to be pointed out and humiliated? Ladies and gentlemen, languages are not weapons with which to do politics. The native languages of Spain are a common heritage that we must take care of and preserve; whether Catalan, Valencian, Basque, Aranese, Galician or, of course, Spanish. And it is unacceptable, it is unacceptable for students to have to ask permission from you in order to be able to examine themselves in Spanish here within national territory, and we are not going to allow under any concept that you turn the Spanish language into a foreign language in your own land, because Catalans, young people, students have the right to choose the language in which they want to examine themselves from the tests of access to university. From VOX we will not tolerate that separatism continues to point out and persecute those who decide to study or examine if in Spanish, as happened to Oscar, a seventeen-year-old boy of Gerona who last month was examined of the PAU. Oscar was at his study center when he was told that he could not leave the center, that he was being surrounded by a herd of guinea pigs and hyperventilated people who were concentrating on the university doors to prevent exams from being distributed in Spanish. And you can see how the street terrorists of Arran, the puppies of the CUP, SEPC called to hinder the course of university access exams by issuing tweets of this type when young people were playing their future. Gentlemen, this is intolerable, this is a shame and you are directly responsible for this infamy. The separatist governments have pursued the Spanish language for years, cornering it, scorning the one and, then, of course, what happens, that appears the vice president of the Government and in a tweet that writes in Spanish, with only two sentences, commits half a dozen lacks of spelling. Gentlemen, from VOX we defend that families have every right to enroll their children in the vehicle language they prefer, whether Catalan or Spanish, and the same with tests of access to university, without any coercion. Because, unlike you, we at VOX understand and defend Spain as a whole, with all its languages, traditions and customs, because the true wealth of Spain resides in each of its singularities and, of course, languages is something that we must take care of and safeguard from its ideological delusions and its linguistic and persecutory mania. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.107.0	Next, and to fix his position, he has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle to Win, Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.108.0	Well, thank you, President. Today, one more time we're talking about language. We talk about our language, the language of the Catalan Countries, the language of Maria Antònia Oliver, Joan Fuster, the language of Ovidi Montllor. A language that we want from all, for all and for all, against no one. A language that, of course, we want to be a right for all, that is, of course, a tool of cohesion, of equal opportunity and also of national construction of our country, of the Catalan Countries. Mirin, we don't just assume, but claim that we want to be a pluricultural and multilingual country. We take it and demand it, it is a value of our country and of our national construction project. Therefore, we are and demand as a multicultural and multilingual society that, therefore, it must put in value and defend all the cultures and all the languages that coexist with it, that form part of our social community and that, obviously, it must take care of all languages and all cultures so that all the rights that correspond to all languages and all cultures in a democratic society and that it is cohesively egalitarian. And, look, in this context and in this mark – in this context and in this mark – on this reality and on this project, we hope that the Catalan language will follow the common language among all the linguistic communities of our country. I suppose no one will argue that it is a legitimate aspiration, that it is an absolutely democratic and legitimate political aspiration, that in a multicultural, multilingual society, based on multilingualism and with the highest linguistic competence for all citizens, the catalá can be the common language, the language shared between the different linguistic communities, that frank language in which all linguistic communities can communicate with each other. We know perfectly well that this is not his project, we know perfectly well. But we legitimately claim that the Catalan language is the common language in our society, between the different linguistic communities in this multicultural and multilingual society. And that requires positive action. Why? Because at these times this is not so, the Catalan language is not yet this common language, we have not recovered full normality; after years and years of persecution, the Catalan language has not yet recovered, in the political period that we have lived from the dictatorship until now, full normality. Therefore, it certainly requires measures of positive discrimination, measures of reinforcement in order to achieve this quality of absolutely normal language and of common language in our country. We have told you many times and we will repeat it again: we want the Catalan language to have the same respect, the same recognition, the same reversal, the same support as the Spanish language in the Spanish State or the French language in France. Is there any deputy in this chamber who thinks the Catalan language deserves a smaller support or maybe a smaller one? Surely, I do not know if they would agree to say so in public, but surely they do believe that the Catalan language should not have, at least, the same support as the French language in France. We think so. And we're getting away with it. Therefore, it is a very important political and linguistic effort in this sense. And because this is possible, the Catalan language, meaning dubte – and this is normal and cohesive and positive – must be the language to drive at our schools, and it is the linguistic immersion system that, meaning dubte, best guarantees it, giving equal opportunities to all and all students from the point of view of their linguistic competence, of their multilingual ability with a common language that is the vehicle language. Special res, absolutely normal in any country that is normal and that is linguistically normal. Therefore, yes, we defend that català, a sense of doubt, must continue to feel the language of vehicle, the common language of teaching in our country, and this includes, a sense of doubt, proofs of access to university. Why should this be an exception? Why should this mean a break in linguistic logic in the education system? And for all this, we will vote against this young man. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.109.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Comú Puem, has the word Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.110.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies, say that the legislature does not begin in truth until Ciutadans presents a motion on the language [[remorse of the voice]] So you can donate this legislature for the first time. We live in a legislature where I think we're discussing a lot of universities, but I think we're discussing a few motions like these. We have a fundamental challenge in our university system, which is how we got out of the mud where we put ourselves with the details of the year 2010. The past year has already reduced the number of subjects by thirty per cent; it has been working, from the ministry and from the generality, to reduce master's degrees and to equate them with degrees; we will have, in a few months, the debate on the funding of public universities in this country, and we will have, this course, the necessary debate on how to address the indecent precariousness of our university system. And you present us with a motion on universities, which can present one to each plenary, and the only one that talks about is whether the exams of selectivity are to be distributed by the three now, print 150,000 exams by the three now, or distribute them in the vehicle language of the country and that each student who decides to do them in castle or in orange can ask for it; because they have discovered today, I suppose, or this summer, that the Catalan language is the vehicle language to education in Catalonia. And what's more problematic: we believe that this is a woman in a context where it is obvious that an attempt is being made to build a conspiracy report against the Spanish language, and that it is reflected in the need, among other things, to mourn Toni Cantó at the « office of the good Spanish of Madrid, because he says that the castle is rooted in all Spain. And say, poor man, that he doesn't act in Catalonia because he doesn't know català and acts in castle – the rest of Spain doesn't act because no one buys him tickets [[relays]] But Catalonia does not act because it acts in castle. I saw him, the other day, retweeting an article that said, "Postmodern jokes, which basically was dedicated to criticizing all the artists who told him that they were acting in Catalonia in castle without any problem, and, basically, the whole article was dedicated to saying that they are part of the conspiracy and that they are part of the conspirators who want to tear down the castle, that it's like I say I don't play Barça because I'm Spanish speaking, and I say the opposite is because it's part of a conspiracy. And that's an argument that basically is based on translating everything that means that the linguistic and national plurality of Spain is able to institutionalize and is able to normalize in a conspiracy against the Spanish nation. But it is that the recognition of the Catalan language as official language, co-official, in Catalonia, or the own Catalan institutions, do not need a conspiracy, forty years ago, do not need the democratic and republican tradition in the Second Republic. For this reason, these institutions did not arise in 1978, but they returned, and for this reason, the role of the Catalan, as the official language in Catalonia, was not created again, but it was restored after forty years of dictatorship. But it is that in Catalonia, that in Valencia, that in the Balearic Islands, that in the Basque Country, that in Navarre, that in Aragó, that in Galicia is recovering and institutionalizing its own languages as part of a conspiracy; in fact, they can only form part of a conspiracy that considers as the only legitimate project a national project that is out of place, monolingual and mononational in its own country, and we believe that it is such a narrow project – so narrow – that it will never win in such a plural country as ours. Why, then, if it's all a conspiracy, if independence has the results that it has in Catalonia, because already, from school, the teacher xijjueja hates against Spain, what explains his electoral status? What curricular change to the schools explains that you have gone from representing the first to the penultimate force of this Parliament? He does not explain it in his educational conspiracy, he explains his political tendency to embrace the extreme right for years thinking that this would not have any political cost in this country. We do not believe that Catalonia has two different languages. Catalonia is home to a nation, a city of 7 million people, who speak different languages, have different mother tongues or first languages, and have different ways of hearing the present and future of this country. But we believe that there is a majority conviction in this country: that Catalonia is a nation, that public education must be an engine of cohesion and social equality, and that the future of this country goes precisely to institutionalize the national plurality of our country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.111.0	Then, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, has the word "Mr.Alejandro Fernández".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.112.0	Thank you, President. Well, we are going to support the motion, which we consider correct, as it includes the linguistic rights of Catalans; it condemns the harassment that students, parents and mothers have received, which is perfectly documented – it is nothing that anyone gets out of the way – in many educational centres, on explicitly linguistic criteria; the necessary enforcement of court judgments, and, of course, the point that has to do with proof of access to university. But I have listened very carefully to Mr Riera's speech, because we must listen to him carefully and with great respect. To me, what he says sounds like serahule, which is the language of Gambia; it is radically different. But I'm going to pose a... but I say it with all due respect, huh? Have you wondered why since the year 83 – 83, i.e., thirty - eight years of linguistic normalization and positive discrimination have passed, which is what you in that atril have asked for – has the level of social use of Catalan dropped sixteen points and at a level that is difficult to quantify? I am..., I know what some..., I like Avel·lí Artís-Gener, Tisner, a man who went to Mexico, to write and to produce in Mexico, to write in Catalan. The level of literary quality of Catalonia at that time was infinitely higher than what we now live with positive discrimination and with everything you now ask for. Have you wondered why? Have you wondered why that is happening? Why does the social use of Catalan fall at the time when policies of greater taxation are being implemented? Have you ever asked him? It is that this is not two days ago, that we have been thirty-eight years with the same policy. It came with the Law of Linguistic Policy of 83, it was renewed in the Law of Linguistic Policy of 98, which, in my view, was unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court said it was constitutional; we followed the ruling. And on the other hand, the level of social use of Catalan has fallen and the level of literary quality has already fallen absolutely exponentially. That's right, and they know it perfectly well. Well, well, it will be that after thirty-eight years what you've been doing is not going well, just as you have to invent if another story, just like you have to bet on freedom, just like you have to bet because talent arises spontaneously, which is what makes any modern and healthy society, and not what you try to do every day here, trying to impose things that neither fit nor will have a future in any way. And you know it perfectly well. And they know it. And the faces they put on right now – I'm staring at them – show that they know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.113.0	Then, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Ms. Judith Toronjo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.114.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor, deputies and deputies. Today, from Juntas to Catalunya, we announced our vote against this motion, and we hope that I will be rejected in Parliament to give a very clear message: and it is that this chamber and its deputies are at the side of the Department of Research and Universities and the organizers of the PAU to guarantee the rights of students and the defense of the generality's competences. After three hundred years of linguistic policies, respect for and protection of minority languages is a principle to which the Spanish State is bound. In the framework of the political, legal and democratic inequality that applies to the castle and to the rest of the languages of the State, this special respect and protection implies taking measures to encourage learning and obviously also for the use of the Catalan language and the Arabic occupier. To deliberately attempt to confuse the policies of promoting historically minority languages with the violation of individual rights, which are otherwise perfectly protected and recognizable, today promotes hate speech against our country's own languages. Protecting a language does not threaten in any case, but all the contrary, the promotion of plurality, wealth and multilingualism. But unfortunately this issue is not new. The Catalan language has suffered numerous attacks at the length of the centuries, in favour of the castle, and these attacks have been at the length of the various years for disputes of authority, of political power. There is no example of the dictatorship, as the company quoted, in which the català was completely relegated while the castle was imposed as a vehicle language in the official sphere, but also in education and in the different spheres. Still, the will to normalize the català took strength in the 8th year and the bet for linguistic immersion in the educational world became a model of success, normalization and language learning as a vehicle. In this sense, at the standard level, highlight how the Statute of Autonomy establishes the proper language, the català, and obviously also as the normal language in administration and teaching. This is the same way as the first law of universities in Catalonia in Article 6. For this reason, the education system already ensures that at the end of the compulsory teaching all the students must know in the same degree the català and the castella – and the proofs of basic skills, in fact, so they prove it a year ago, since they have this object with very similar qualifications. Again, this was no exception and students' rights were respected to obtain evidence in any of the official languages, in Catalan, in Arabic and in Castilian. Moreover, additional measures were taken, mechanisms to strengthen information for all students enrolled in the PAU. And I remember: respecting, as always, in the course of these trials your anonymity. In this sense, I also believe that today it is important to fill in this task by the department and to congratulate the deployment of the access tests, despite the complexity of the covid-19, and to add to the congratulations of the 96.77_per_cent approved, but at the same time wishing a lot of luck to the young people who will be examining themselves in September. Therefore, from Junts to Catalonia we are clear as the bet from compulsory education and post-compulsory is a model of cable immersion, cable for the country, cable for the mark of our history, and obviously cable for our culture. But, also, to ensure this cohesion with the catal as a refuge from these party opportunisms that we can often feel, and which they have as their sole objective to divide us as a society and to take away 'in an electoral order. I, the daughter of Castilian speakers, cannot end up in any other way than claiming to be a català today, to do so from Junts to Catalonia, as the language of cohesion of our country and its people, regardless of where we come from. And, despite some weights, this will continue to be present at schools, research centres and universities. And I refer to what you, Councillor Geis, transmitted in the past Ple, was called upon not to win the courts of justice to the fact that the democratic majority of this Parliament does not hold them. And I'd like to add to the respect that they don't want to win in Parliament and that they didn't go to the polls on the 14th of February. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.115.0	Thank you. And then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word MP Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.116.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Well, as always, when we talk about language in this room, there is a certain demagogicity, and therefore, I would like to start with three basic principles and then explain our position. These three basic principles are about equality, about equity and about bodyhood. Why? Because equality is where we want to get to, it's the ideal objective, equal opportunities, and so when we talk about language we can't debate any of this principle. Fairness is, one time we have this objective of equality, as we come up with, with this positive discrimination that the Riera company gave, with these proposals for positive discrimination that generate equity, right? , and there is a certain inequality, so promote and strengthen. And finally, so the body because feminism, the feminist movement has taught us that the place from which we are from, the place from which we are politics, is also important. Why am I saying that? Because the feminisms of intersectionality..., and that's what the black lesbian feminists taught us in Boston, which obviously hegemonic feminism was white feminism, wasn't enough, because the discrimination they suffer, the racism they suffer, and the discrimination they suffer with lesbian women, so it wasn't enough. And, therefore, how we generate these public policies on the basis of equity and not to give per fact that there is this principle of equality. I say that because, when we talk about català and castella, this principle of equality does not exist. And, therefore, with these data from the social use of català, from the common language we aspire to, we can't leave, can we? , to confront them as if they were in the same situation. Therefore, protection, reinforcement and promotion policies are mandatory, because in Catalonia the Catalan language, our language, has suffered political persecution – said the company of Junts and the company of the CUP – and, therefore, these proposals for protection, reinforcement, promotion are indispensable. Did Congressman Fernández say in thirty-eight years, didn't he? since '83, which is linguistic immersion and this positive discrimination... so now we have the worst data. Exactly. Precisely, the reality of 1983 is not that of 2021, and we probably need to rethink these public policies that generate equity, that walk towards equality. And that's why it's so important the ambition in the Secretary of Linguistic Policy, who has stepped up, and that's also why it's important that the Catalan audio-visual, which is a fundamental piece because the use of Catalan in Catalonia has another greeting..., so they can be central public policies of the Council of Culture. I think it's important to know from some point of view where politics is concerned. And I'm Spanish speaking, and I don't see my rights violated because Catalonia's vehicle language is Catalan. Not only that, but with the same spirit that began the linguistic immersion in Santa Coloma, which was a demand of the Castilian speaking families, this politics of bodyhood also the femmes that we are Castilian speaking claiming these politics of equity, because the català is also a linguistic right of those that we are Castilian speaking. I think that's important to say, because, if not, they end up generating these two blocks, right? , as if the catalá was just a question that interests independent parties, when it's absolutely nothing about it. But this proposal, which is proposed by Citizens and voted in favour of VOX and PP, which is proposed by us are not the language rights of Spanish speakers but the liberalism of all their policies applied to language, and therefore the law of the market must also regulate the social use of the languages spoken in Catalonia – and here they will not find us there. Why do you have to think that, like the logger, language is regulated alone and that, therefore, freedom for all, no? , and, therefore, we do not have to do with català's reinforcement policies. And this motion, which, of course, we will vote against en bloc, which he proposes are not right linguistics but supremacy of the castle. And that's what we won't allow. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.117.0	Next, to pronounce on the papers, has the word the deputy Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.118.0	Thank you, President. Well, in this debate we have clearly seen one of the problems in Catalonia with the question of language, which is the spiral of silence. We have seen an intervention by the Socialist Party which has been applauded, or if not lashed, for the stand of the separatist parties. It seems that when the Socialist Party makes the speech of the nationalists they give them, let's say, the natural letter of Catalanity, which is what they expect them to give them. We've seen an intervention by Mr. Riera where he was openly speaking about the social engineering they want to do, that's to say that what they want is simply that those of us who have the castle as our mother tongue change and move on to the català. But we've also seen Mrs. Jenn Díaz that... it's something that's going to spread to me, really impress me, it does exactly the same as Mr. Rufian. He says: "No, I speak Spanish, but our language is Catalan. It's really surreal, not to mention delusional; it's quite usual – some laugh, still, it's unbelievable. Indeed, in Catalonia there are a lot of people who have the castle as their mother tongue– in fact, there are a majority of citizens of Catalonia who have the castle as their mother tongue–, and, in change, the discourse of the separatist parties, which some Spanish-speaking people understand and defend enthusiastically, says: "But our language is Catalan. It is a nationalist conception, "nineteenth, rance, caspora, the first of an absolutely truncated, absolutely out of step nationalism. The fact of saying: the citizens have a series of languages, in fact, the majority in a certain territory is not one – the castle – but the language of this territory itself, at home! It's another, it's the català. It's an absolutely surreal thing. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, but here's... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, it's just that the common ones are now...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.119.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.120.0	...jump to defend the separatists, who do not follow that they also withdraw the catalanity. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.121.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.122.0	You're the one who says...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.123.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.124.0	Miri...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.125.0	It's over, and please. Time's running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.126.0	No, well, I'm done... time... I suppose you'll leave me...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.127.0	I've put up with it. Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.128.0	Okay. Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.129.0	No, no, I put up with it when I said I'm quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.130.0	But it's that the Lord of the Commons jumps to defend the separatists very quickly, and he tells me it sounds like VOX. Miri, Mr. Cid, I'd rather take pictures of myself, as Mr. Ferro said before, and embrace someone like Ignacio Garriga or someone like Ortega Lara than someone like Mr. Otegi, actually. [[Greetings and remorse.]] Effectively. Give it up. It's just... I love it. It's that, really, it's a delusional thing – delusional. It's..., fi... [[Widow's remorse.]] You're a little used to being told things the way they are, aren't you? That's a bit of a habit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.131.0	Mr. Martín Blanco, time is running out. [[Pause.]] Thank you. [[Long break.]] We shall proceed to the vote. Remember... the escho? Perfect. The vote begins. The motion was rejected with 51 votes in favour, 80 votes against. Let's go to the next item on the agenda, the dinovè, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the measures envisaged... Yes, forgive me, Mrs Romero, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.132.0	No, I'm sorry, I'm asking you for the word because we've lost track of each other. We wanted to ask for a separate vote on points, and we thought we were going to vote on point 1. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.133.0	Excuse me? I wanted to ask for a separate vote...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.134.0	A little respect, Mrs. Jenn Díaz. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, we wanted to ask for a separate vote from points and we thought we were voting first, not the whole vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.135.0	But we've already voted. Tell me, ma'am...? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.136.0	I'm not saying that I repeat it, I'm saying that my group...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.137.0	I'm just trying to make a point...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.138.0	...didn't want to vote for four points the same. The deputies know that because we talked to them. And I just wanted to say why...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.139.0	I wanted to make a point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.140.0	...we didn't want to vote favorably at all his points, this young man.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.141.0	All right, so it's collected in the session logbook. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the planned measures to deal with the increase in hate crimes]] [[302-00012/13]] And let us continue with the next item on the agenda, the new item on the agenda, in which we will work the motion following the question to the Government on the measures planned to deal with the increase in hate crimes. It is a motion presented for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, and to expose it has the word of Congresswoman Núria Picas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.142.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselors, deputies, deputies. As they please here some of this chamber that applauds the deputies of VOX... [[Some applause.]] Those of the '« to them, those who are affecting democracy. All right. Begin. Unfortunately, there are very hard and complicated days, we are back in time, as you can prove right now here in this room, the violation of human rights and freedoms is a constant one, and this increase in hate crimes and attacks and LGBTI-fóbic rapes is very worrying. Just yesterday from this Parliament we declared Catalonia as the zone of freedom for LGBTIQ+ people, a statement that on these days takes more meaning than ever. Without going any further, the Observers against Homophobia have already counted one hundred and fifteen attacks since the 1st genera. This is the tip of the iceberg of all the attacks and rapes suffered by people in the LGTBIQ+ collection. In this sense, the Mosso d'Esquadra took up about 30 complaints during the first quarter of the year. In the same period, the Directorate-General for Equality gathered 137 cases and thirty-three administrative, criminal or labour complaints about discrimination, violation of rights and injuries. I quote a few cases of these last days: July 3rd, In Coruña, kill Samuel among thirteen people to the cry of « faggot, » faggot. Some say it's not a homophobic assault. We cry out « justice for Samuel ; 26 June, Sant Cugat del Vallès, two minors at a time of punch against a young man to make him unconscious ; 26 June, a man of fifty-two years suffers an attack on Park Güell for two people uttering homophobic crits ; 28 May, disbanded at night, at the platter of Somorrostro, in Barcelona, five men are launched against two gay pairs without warning and hit them and one of the four ends with the broken jaw. And these are cases that have been known and denounced. And the worst part is that, sadly, of the attacks that we know to be reported there is an abyss. The same way that everything that's reported doesn't always end up being punished, and obviously there are all the other cases that don't even manage to report. That's why we want to reinforce the issue of hate crimes. Today, we denounce and reject all forms of violence against persons, especially against minorities or minority groups, which are intended to protect, by reason of sex, sexual orientation and gender identity or expression, already by reason of origin, phenotype, belonging to an ethnic group, religion or belief, trained, disabled, aged or any other personal condition that tempts against the integrity and dignity of the person and, ultimately, that tempts against human rights. We said a couple of weeks ago with the councilman in his parliamentary office, and we'll do it again. The Catalan Republic that we want must be free of discrimination, and this also means a safe society especially for the most vulnerable. We therefore consider it essential to guarantee and to achieve full equality, to preserve the diversity of the Catalan society and to protect the free exercise of all the rights of the people, and that this mission must be a guiding principle of the performance of all the bodies and security forces of our country. In the face of hate crimes and all their expressions, we need a Catalonian police force to safeguard and guarantee human rights by deploying the equal treatment and non-discrimination law and to put it all at once and give an effective and effective response. That's why I need to vet for this deployment to all the Interior Department and all the police in Catalonia and private security companies operating in Catalonia and, therefore, with this equal treatment and non-discrimination law..., and a specific training on hate crimes and discrimination both to the bodies of Mosso d'Esquadra as to the local police assembly in Catalonia. The motion that we are presenting today also has other points – it will not give us time – as is promoting Law 10/94; 16/91, of the local police; guaranteeing the rights of all people applying actions aimed at ensuring the effective equality of the most vulnerable collectivities, etc. Last but not least, we think that there is an urgent deployment of this central unit of hate crimes and discrimination. They think it's necessary. It is a specialized unit to fight and fight against all these attacks. In Catalonia, neither homophobia, nor sexism, nor transphobia, nor racism. And finally, and to finish my intervention, I want to give thanks to the CUP and PSC groups for working together and improving this movement, expanding it and providing it with even more content to fight and give an effective and effective response against any attack I have mentioned: defending, protecting and guaranteeing human rights. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.143.0	It has the word to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Ramon Espadaler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.144.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the first place, allow 'un gesture, that is to aggravate the presence of the Councillor of Interior in this hemisphere, a practice that had been lost enough in the previous legislature and that seems to me to be an exhibition of respect not to the one who speaks but to the side of the chamber. [[Some applause.]] And, therefore, thank you, counselor, to be present, counsel, to be present in this debate. They will allow me to start with a statement on behalf of the parliamentary group I represent, of Socialists and Forward Units. We are for zero tolerance with any expression of violence, before any aggression, before any behavior, the result of hatred and vague discrimination against any – any – collective, for the reason that it is: for reason of thought, ideology, religious practice, sexual orientation, gender; the reason that it is. We're against it. I say the same in favor. We are in the defense – and that is why we will support some of the issues that have been raised by other groups of those who have many things – of equality, of dignity on the part of all people, without exception. That said, we've been looking at this young man with a constructive will to get her out. And we've made a set of items, which I appreciate that they've been accepted in their totality and transactions in some of the cases, to example it in the following sense. We don't think there's enough just to talk about hate crimes. Since the later modification of the Criminal Code, they have disappeared from what we have known as "failure" and, therefore, there are some types that are not criminal but that the law does contemplate as administratively punishable, that also many times fall into the land of hatred and discrimination without reaching the crime type. So, we say, here too in the area of administrative sanctions. And this has been incorporated. We also look at what we think about the Mossos d'Esquadra's body, and we look at it from the local police, for the very definition of local police, which also have a proximity element, many times, and therefore can contribute a lot to it. And this has also been incorporated very clearly and we appreciate it on the part of the speaker. And let's take it to another area where we talk about it a few times in this room, and it's important. It's the private security sector. The private security sector, which represents, broadly, divides_thousand people in this country, so, many times, it is fixed, which is about around, for example, as around oci, where these types of problems are given. Therefore, everything we invest in training in the sector and in awareness-raising in the private security sector will also help to avoid this. And, therefore, it is a sector to take very much into account from the very perspective of crime, but also from the administrative failure to punish. We believe that if we look at this horizon, we can better achieve the laudable objective that we share, that the deputy of the Republican Group was setting up in this young man. So, they're papers that have been approved. We have also asked – and we understand that it remains perfectly collected – that the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia places a special emphasis on training and offers to local police and the body of Mossos d'Esquadra..., in this case private security, by definition, is the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia, and therefore there is not much to say. But in any case, you also make this effort. And somehow she's been accepted, too. They did not accept us, but we consider it to be in the know-how of the text, a theme we said: "Home, we also advance in police protocols, because they give security to those who have to manage police action. As more protocols we have these actions, so more security will have the police and also more initiative or intent or motivation to pursue this type of crime. In any case, these are, to a great extent, the points that we have raised and that we appreciate the sensitivity of the group proposing to have collected them in whole or in part. In any case, we will give support to all the young people, taken from the last point. And the confession that we've had a little... she danced to us a little bit because. You say ‘to create a specific unit...', I believe that in literality it is ‘a central unit of hate crimes and discrimination. We could give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can give-I can-I can give-I can give-I can-I can give-I can give-I can-I can give-I can-I can give-I can-I can give-I can-I can give-I can-I can give-I can-I can give-I can-I can-I can-I can, but we think that this belongs to the organization ground of the same thing as Mosos d'Esquadraquadra, that if they decide that this has to be so, they will already do it, but that if they think that if they think that it can be approached from existing units, they can'm not. Because, by the same rule of three, we could create specific central units for different types of crimes that we would all agree on. That is why we are calling for a separate vote and here we will not vote against it either, but in any case we will abstain. And Congresswoman Picas said: "I said that the Catalan Republic wants it free of hatred. It seems very good to me; we want the present country, the Catalonia we have at present, because we see that this thing from the republic can go a long way. Let us put ourselves there, let us pull ourselves together and let the present Catalonia, which will please them more or will please them less, but it has the form of an autonomous community, in any case, the community of Catalonia is also free from these hate crimes, which I believe to be a substantial part, although it is still not the totality, but a very important part of this Parliament I believe to be joining us. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.145.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, has the words of Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.146.0	Thank you, President. Well, good afternoon, deputies and deputies. For us, capitalism and fascism are two cares of the same currency: where capitalist democracies do not arrive so that they can continue to exploit their people above the extreme right. And later, and again, when the capitalist system goes into deep crisis, the extreme right grows again. And this is the situation that has hardly been seen in Europe, and we see it in Hungary, we see it with the rise of the National Front in the French State or we see it with the growth of VOX in the Spanish State. And it is that the Spanish State is a state that contains in its DNA the fascism, racism and LGBTI-phobia, and these tics are accentuated by the own composition of the State and by the ill-named "democratic transition". This transition avoided any type of accountability clearance on the part of the French dictatorial regime, many of the prominent members of which continued to occupy responsibilities in the new rule of 78. Unfortunately, there were no Nuremberg judges here. Thus, the Spanish State is a state that has never been held to account for the assassins and torturers of the dictatorship, nor for its own dictatorship, all the contrary: it has kept them, protected them and even glorified them; a state that has in important positions of power individuals who maintain this umbilical cord with the Franco dictatorship, a state that is working in all spheres and endowed with the most absolute impunity the extreme right, despite threats, despite striking or bad morning. And it is that, for example, the eighty per cent of the crimes of the extreme right eaten between 1975 and 1987 today and today remain unpunished. We find ourselves, therefore, with military bodies, with police bodies infested with members of the extreme right and with a judicature infested with fascism. Moreover, we have legal marks, such as the Criminal Code, anchored in racist principles, masculinists and a clear class ideology that does nothing but pursue dissent and poverty. And we have a lot of examples. The prosecution has no doubt about accusing of hate crimes of protesting against the Hazte Oir bus, but doubts whether the murder of Samuel was a case of LGBTI-phobia. Or while the murder of Guillem Agullo campes freely, the prosecutor of hate crimes of Catalonia accuses once and for another time the anti-fessists who fight the fessism. O while since 2015 until 2019 more than four hundred cases of LGBTI-fobic attacks have been reported, only in two cases there have been convictions. A report from the Generalitat describes me as a surprise. Unfortunately, as far as we're concerned, they're not surprising people, and it's not because the values of power in the Spanish State are masculinism, racism and fascism. And who's the prosecutor's office from, gentlemen of the PSC? Who do they depend on? Because let us not forget that you have carried out an untiring task of renting your face and normalizing the extreme right. We saw it today, it's been a while, with a meeting where they came with VOX and Citizens, and we had to suspend. We also see it with laws that defend, absolutely racist, such as the foreign law, that places migrants in a situation of absolute vulnerability and that makes them grow fascism, and we see it when, in the end, they are boycotting every single line against the extreme right. And not only that, but in fact, with his policies of Drets, with his policies of defense of the monarchy, with his policies of defense of IBEX 35, with his policies, therefore, of Drets, self-named "lefts", they are one of the main ones responsible for the growth of the extreme right to the Spanish State. And it is that, as Xavier Vinader said, the State has never seen the extreme right as an enemy, but as a collaborator. And before that there is only one possible answer, that is to fight it in Parliament and where you need it. And despite the threats, we will not tire of repeating the truth, which is nothing other than you – yes, you – are responsible for the murder of Samuel, for the attacks of Grace, for the attacks on the plagiarism of the Somorrostre and Sant Cugat and for the hundreds of racist, fascist and masclistic attacks that took place in the past few years. And I repeat, they don't make us because of their threats, we will continue to fight Parliament and where we need them. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.147.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, the deputy Mr Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.148.0	Thank you, Madam President. Look, before I start my speech, I'm going to announce to the CUP deputy that we're going to sue him for insults. [[Greetings.]] I'm telling you. Because up to this rostrum, up to this rostrum has bounds of decorum. And I remind you that your cultural references, the communists, shot homosexuals, huh? to whom Viktor Orbán defended. [[Some applause.]] Look, in VOX we condemn all kinds of violence, come from wherever it comes from, any discrimination on the grounds of birth, race, sex, religion or any other personal or social circumstance as stated in the Constitution. We condemn absolutely everything – absolutely everything – violence. And we say it loud and clear and for the umpteenth time. Mrs. Picas, now I'm going to ask you to do the same when you come up to this rostrum, also condemn all violence, huh? , condemn the attacks on VOX candidates in the past autonomous elections, condemn Jair Domínguez to propose on TV3 to fight us with a punch in the mouth, condemn this individual to spend all day on TV3 saying « whore Spain. Mrs. Picas, have the courage to do that. Condemn these crimes. Or do these hate crimes not count? Do you know that Sabeel Civic Observatory of Political Violence in 2020 took place three hundred_eighty acts of political violence in Catalonia of which 91.84_per_cent were committed by authors..., had separatist authorship and that VOX was the most assaulted party? Do these hate crimes count or don't count? Does Pol Gómez, a member of the CUP, say that another member of the CUP, in Olesa de Montserrat, monitor of couples, summer camps, would prohibit a child from going with the Spanish T-shirt? Does it count or doesn't it count? Because this is a shame. Gross! Valuing himself with a poor child for wearing the Spanish T-shirt in the middle of Eurocopa. Look, does Victor Laínez, murdered by Rodrigo Lanza for carrying some Spanish flag straps, a convicted murderer, to whom many of you have given support: Mrs. Colau, Pablo Iglesias and so many others? Do they count or don't they? Or do they only count those crimes that can give us political gain? Do you condemn some violence and others do not? Or do we condemn them all? Look, in the face of their racist supremacism, in the face of their hatred of VOX, they will always stand up to us defending the equality of all Spaniards without distinction and condemning all discrimination. And now we are going to talk about hate crimes and attacks on homosexuals and women, which are terrible crimes. Look, the increase in these hate crimes originates in the policies of the left and separatism that allow and encourage the massive illegal immigration of countries that do not respect homosexuals and women, of countries where being homosexual is punished with torture and the death penalty, of countries where being homosexual the punishment is that they cut your head, burn you alive, pull you for a cliff or hang you from a crane. And they know it. Radical Islamism is homophobic and sexist. And they know it. Councillor Elena, whom I thank for her presence, knows that last Tuesday he met with the mayor of Terrassa after the serious incidents that took place in that town. Because, look, in this last week in Terrassa, about a dozen Magrebians give a brutal beating to a boy at the beginning of the local holidays; in Palma de Mallorca, a MENA rapes a fourteen-year-old child; in Seville, an Algerian assaults a woman in the cry of « Christian dogs; in Ceuta, a Moroccan stabs a young man in the cry of « Allah is great, and two weeks ago, in Lleida, a Moroccan raped an eighteen-year-old girl, and in the Conca de Barberà, a Tunisian sexually assaulted a lady of eighty. Look, in VOX we don't differentiate between men and women, homosexuals or heterosexuals, no, no; we condemn all violence. And make it clear that from this Parliament we will continue to bet on common sense vis-à-vis its liberticid policies, we will continue to bet on the equality of all Spaniards without distinction vis-à-vis their laws discriminatory on grounds of sex and against their attempts to collect homosexuals and women. We will continue to bet on the state of the well-being of the Spanish against the state of the well-being of the parties, against the state of well-being of their LGTB bars, and we will continue to bet on secure borders that allow safe neighborhoods. Look, this VOX motion is not going to support her. It will not support it because it does not address the real causes of the increase in hate crimes, because it is sectarian, condemns some violence yes and others not, and because it seeks to criminalize many Catalans. And, look, Mrs. Picas, you are a professional firefighter, be calm, that in the acts of VOX there is neither fire nor violence nor altercation; for there is no role on the ground. Save the hose for the CDRs, who burn the cities and use Molotov cocktails, which you have both in Republican Left as well as in Junts as in the CUP. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.149.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, Ms Jessica González has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.150.0	Thank you, President. I hope I never get used to this « matxirulism of this chamber [[some applause]] Because, my mother, talking about hate crimes and hate that's breathing here and pilots out, come on, talking about five nationalities that have nothing to see, just to associate them with rapes or rapes, totally irrelevant. Let's see if we can call the order a little bit in this sense. Ouch! This week we saw how concern for the increase in hate crimes has turned into collective pain, right? , for the terrible case of Samuel Luiz and other cases that other parliamentary groups have discussed. It is a reading that we definitely share, the one of this young man, as the rise of extreme right-wing formations makes it contribute and uncomplex the intolerances that already exist. His racist, masculinist, LGBTI-phobic, Islamophobic speeches are feeding this reactionary and violent act. And it goes on to say that this peak of the extreme right, which is going on at the global level and is perfectly connected at the international level, is also manifested in the Spanish State and is also manifested in Catalonia; we are not free from this racism and this peak of the extreme right that is making intolerance fight. And this bitch, obviously, has arrived here in the Parliament of Catalonia, as we see and as we breathe. The data show that this increase only means that we need more anti-discrimination policies, and, in this sense, we have the equal treatment and non-discrimination law, which marks our way, and also other legal tools, such as the law of the right of women to eradicate masculinist violence and the law against LGBTI-phobia. And it's worth mentioning because the fight of hate wasn't just police intervention or punitive. The hate crimes, depending on the type they follow, require public policies of prevention and awareness in all spheres, policies of fighting against inequalities and of recognizing diversity and social inclusion, and of reparation, which is also a word that we can use when talking about the peak of the extreme right and of hate crimes. Just when we are at a time when social movements have been so much..., movements such as anti-racism, feminism, LGTBI collectivities are articulating so much to make administrations mo and work in an intersectoral and articulated way– and, here, social movements, obviously, bring us a lot of advantage– are acting as a propitious political subject and asking the institutions that we are political to deal with these structural violations that we, as institutions, also exercise. Now we have to face the problem. With police data on the table, bearing in mind that there are many cases in which there is no complaint either for the reason of revictimization or for not being in an administrative situation that allows you to defend your rights, we are clear that the perspective of security is necessary for the fracture, as we said before, of other policies. It is a priority to develop instruments that we already have developed as I have discussed before. Respect for the human rights of a society gives the measure of the quality of democracies. There is no place for racism, for discrimination in all the feelings we speak, there is no place, but there is. And I will not go into the measures, which have been taken, beyond expressing our vote in favour of everyone and conveying a reflection. It may also focus on the police's own activities, and the most worrying is the police identifications by racial profile, a practice that exists and with which we have to end up. The commissary at the head of the Mossos, Eduard Sallent, acknowledged that there were racist practices in the body and that we would start from the committee on the study of institutional and structural racism. To end the corporatist cover-up and the impunity of these practices, as we review the evaluation mechanisms, control and accountability of the property, but we also generate an external, independent mechanism, such as that of other countries, such as the United Kingdom, to evaluate police practices. We need a security strategy based on exemplary public power. And, once again, apart from condemning speeches and political statements, which are very easy to condemn, and then no one is involved here..., condemning is not enough, and since then we can reiterate the need to deploy the legal tools that we already have, rather than accepting the rapes that have been carried out since the institution, and above all by getting us to fight them. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.151.0	For the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Matías Alonso has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.152.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counsel, ladies and gentlemen, the Republican Left Parliamentary Group of Catalonia has set up this movement following the old tradition of presenting parliamentary initiatives that coincide with significant calendar dates. In this case, the coincidence with the annual celebration of the LGTBIQ+ pride. Unfortunately, facts such as the various homophobic attacks that have occurred these days, especially the murder at the hands of a bunch of young Samuel Luiz Muñiz's cowards, in the Corunya, gives more sense to a young man about hate crimes. I repeat the firm and absolute condemnation of this crime, and I hope that all the law will fall upon the guilty and that they will win the prize they deserve and that the whole Spanish society will win. A hate crime is an act characterized as a crime in the Criminal Code that is motivated by the bias or harm of who commits it to the victim. It is true that the hate crimes are following a clear trend of growth in Spain and, it is hard to say, especially in Catalonia, if we are to pay attention to official statistics. Catalonia is the autonomous community with the most self-governance and also the autonomous community with the greatest incidence of hate crimes. In Catalonia there is an incidence of hate crimes, in the last official statistics published, the correspondent in the year 2019, superior to the rest of autonomous Spanish communities. In 2019 the number of known hate crimes per hundred_ thousand inhabitants in Catalonia is 6.7 with a total of 514 known fets. If we compare the incidence of hate crimes with autonomous communities comparable to the number of inhabitants, to the Community of Madrid is 3.9 per cent_1,000 inhabitants, with a total of 258 known facts, practically the half that in Catalonia, and in Andalusia is 2.4 per cent_1,000 inhabitants, with 201 known facts. Therefore, in this statistic we are also capdavanters, even though this fact must have a negative, not positive, appreciation. It is curious, but in this statistics of hatred, in the combination of the acts considered as hate crimes, Catalonia is in the vanguard, yes, it is the autonomous community with more relative incidence and with more crime acts, practically twice as much as the second community in absolute numbers, but those that follow it in the ranquing, also much above the Spanish medium, which is 3.6 hate crimes per hundred_ thousand inhabitants, are two autonomous communities in which nationalism occupies the power spaces of decades ago: the Basque Country and Navarre, with 4.7 hate crimes related to hate crimes per hundred_ thousand inhabitants. Because I have already said that the case of hate crimes has different backgrounds, among which perhaps it has motivated in the first instance this young man, the one who has to see with sexual orientation and gender identity, but in the statistics of hate crimes it is not this question that occupies the first place of the race in Spain, nor in a more concrete way in Catalonia. The year 2019, of the 514 facts related to the scope of hate crimes in Catalonia, 253 – almost half – are related to the scope of ideology, 253 of 514. In the field of racism and xenophobia, the given, although very worrying, is also more reduced: 119 facts related to racism; as it is also smaller, and not less worrying, the fact that it refers to the field of sexual orientation and gender identity: 101 facts related to this field, almost the twenty_per_cent. Hate crimes have a lot to do with the cognition that ends up running in society these types of crime, because hate at different times when difference, diversity, pluralism is seen as damaging to the fact that it is a danger for those who feel integrated with the right collectivities of a society. Human rights are of all and every human being individually: all human beings are free and equal in dignity and rights, and, endowed with reason and conscience, have the duty to behave fraternally with one another. No less than Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The Republican Left of Catalonia can't stand in this fight for the defense of rights, because they're more eager to pull for the right than not to respect rights. There are many indicators that confirm this statement. I'll just say one. The Office of Civil Rights and Policies was created to measure for a person with absolutely contrary precedents to any defense of human rights by the work and grace of the Flemish new president of the Generality. Therefore, I must make it very clear to you: we are concerned about a lot of things, but we are also concerned about the bias behind the motion that we are debating and voting on today. And, therefore, we cannot support it in its totality. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.153.0	Thank you very much. And then, on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word "Mr.Alejandro Fernández".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.154.0	Thank you, President. Johan Cruyff said that bad footballers had to be left to play, that they would score themselves, but everything has a limit, and sometimes bad footballers also have to be explained to them. He points out that Spain is a fascist, criminal, dictatorial and repressive state. You rise four_thousand_eurazos every month from that repressive state, and, on top of that, gentleman, to say foolishness – to say foolishness. Go to your adorable Venezuela, Cuba and North Korea to say that these countries are fascists, criminals, dictators and oppressors. You don't last there for half an hour; you poison him with polonium just entering the border. You go with that courage to say what you said here today. Here, on the other hand, we have to endure their majaderias with Franciscan patience and good humor. That's what democracy is about. I repeat, go to your beloved Cuba, Venezuela and North Korea to say that they are repressive and dictatorial states. Celebrate that, in this democratic Spain, thank God, and in this healthy Spain, you can come to a parliament to say nonsense and on top of it rise four_thousand_eurazos every month to say, I insist, majaderias, because they are majaderias. That said... [[Some applause.]] Having said that, with regard to the motion, we are going to vote in favour of point 1; it is a declaration of tolerance, of rejection of hatred, impeccable, and we will therefore vote in favour. We shall vote against point 2. Hatred cannot be attributed to an ideology exclusively. Hate nests in all ideologies. In many countries you can find that in the name of the right the most criminal acts are carried out, and in the countries to which I previously referred, Venezuela, Cuba or North Korea, those same acts are carried out in the name of the left and of equality between people. Therefore, we cannot accept that it only nests in an ideology of such hatred. And in the rest of the motion we are going to abstain, because, although it has points that we could share, it sums up an almost pathological mistrust in the character of the Mossos d'Esquadra in Catalonia, caricaturizing those as if they were male and homophobic characters, by definition, to which we must control. « Machirulos has been called to them in this chamber. Here the only « machirules that hired people according to the size of their breasts, were you, as was discovered in recordings in cases of political corruption in recent years in Catalonia. Review your practices and do not accuse others of what you yourselves should review. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.155.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mrs Tonia Batlle's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.156.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies, good late. First of all, let me make a personal point after this debate that we have, a little warm, because it is my first intervention as a Member of this House and I would like to express the honour that it is for me to represent the Catalan people from the Catalan Parliament, which reflects the will of the citizens of this country, a majority of whom, at the last elections, expressed their vote clearly independent. From here, I want to mention the recently pardoned companies, as well as the exiled and retaliatory people, who are seeing their phone rights violated, that these are the ones we are now dealing with in this young man. We should not be debating this issue in the 21st century, because in a mature society like ours, dignity, freedom, equality and diversity must prevail. We can't let the citizens walk around our streets. And where are we? We are talking about rape, discrimination and, basically, human rights. We want, from the Junts Parliamentary Group to Catalonia, to remember the people who have suffered this violence and condemn it. I focus on the recent attacks, as my predecessors have commented, those that happened in Barcelona, Valencia, Sant Cugat, and last week the assassination of Samuel in the Corunya. We strongly condemn hate crimes, hate speeches, homophobic, xenophobic speeches that endanger the integrity and life of the people of our country and the coexistence of this country. Like public servants, we have the obligation to defend and work for a society where no one suffers from aggression to be like, for their identity, and we have the obligation to reinforce ourselves against hate speech, as we have done from this chamber signing an anti-feixist decency for equality and freedom. We are an inclusive country, with a respectable country. Thanks to the integrating country that we are, we have become a people's sun. This respect that we have always had is what we believe must be the basis of the country and the republic that we want to build, making a different country, because people are different. Look, a few weeks ago I attended a conference in Lloret de Mar with representatives of the Observer against Homophobia where there were people who explained their experiences to us, really very hard, and I pointed out two phrases that I would like to convey to you: "The barriers imposed by society do not let us be free. It will have been fully included when there is no exclusion. Since the government we support has granted to deploy the law of equal treatment and non-discrimination, to veto for its compliment and to deploy regularly those laws that claim to guarantee the rights of the LGTBI collection. I would like to reaffirm that with this young man we are passing through to encourage the government to act, and since Parliament we would be fond of the compliment of the commitments. The facts are the ones that make us comply with our commitment to citizenship. And for this reason, we will vote in favour of this motion, as it cannot be otherwise. Yesterday, in this Parliament, we declared Catalonia a zone of freedom for LGBTI people. Unfortunately, not for the sake of unanimity. We protect and make this freedom possible. People have the right to live as they are and no one can violate that right, and now we're thinking about a time like society. We are all responsible and we all have our role, from institutions, from the street and from our homes. We've got a vaccine, we've got a vaccine, because there's a lot of it. Against hate crimes, we have people's attitudes, and we just saw it in this room. Good afternoon. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.157.0	Next, in order to position herself on the exams, has the word the deputy lady Núria Picas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.158.0	Thank you, President. According to the papers submitted for the PSC and CUP groups, the Republican Left Group, we have accepted almost all of it and have not dealt with some of it. Therefore, most have been accepted as a result of an expanded and more comprehensive motion, with a clear and unique objective: to combat any ideology and behaviour that perpetuates any action, criminal, hate and discrimination. We will continue to work to implement actions aimed at ensuring the effective equality of the most vulnerable collectivities, and we will also work to reduce secondary victimization of people with hate crimes through better performance protocols. I thank, therefore, the constructive will that some groups have had in this chamber. Point 4.b with private security, where is often given some behaviors that do not have cabuda, and also with this bet..., defends the bet to consolidate a police model where I do not have cabuda the connivance or the passivity before any discrimination. Mr. Macián, do you know what a hate crime is? A hate crime is the sign of the MENA that you put in Madrid. And do you know what a hate crime is? The intolerable tweet of VOX posing the saying to the owner of the magazine El Thursday with impunity. And you would have to have the courage to rectify, because you are the ones of the '' to them. And, of course, that has been said by Mr Fernández, since he spoke of football and Johan Cruyff, because many times it seems that they make good that phrase that they say "go out and enjoy, the " after them, " after them going out on the road to the hunt. 2017 has already begun with independence and now affects all democratic structures in Spain. We will not allow this, and I believe that we should be the ones in the ‘' for them, but always with democracy and doing the right thing girls. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.159.0	Mr. Macián, yes, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.160.0	Madam President, by allusions, to Rule 87.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.161.0	One moment. I know it's Rule 87, but do they ask for allusions directly for you?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.162.0	Yes, by being directly questioned as « Mr Macián, I would like to be able to make a...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.163.0	You're 30 seconds old.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.164.0	That's very kind of you. Mrs Picas, in relation to what you just said, regarding the VOX cartel in Madrid, the audience has said that that is neither a hate crime nor nothing, it has just given us the reason. [[Some applause.]] He has archived it and said that there is precisely a problem in Spain with the MENA. And as for the magazine El Thursday, I remind you that there is a German magazine, Der Stürmer, which has very similar covers, is the magazine made by the Nazis blaming the Jews [[remorse of the voice]] dehumanizing the adversary so that he can then annihilate him. I'm saying it because that magazine, maybe I could take a look at its covers. It's infumable. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.165.0	Yes, Mr. Martín Blanco, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.166.0	President, for a separate vote from the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.167.0	To ask for a separate vote? How many points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.168.0	Yeah, three points, point two, fourth and fourth.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.169.0	Could these three go together for you? No, huh? Ask them separately. Perfect. Mrs. Roldán?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.170.0	Yes, to ask for a separate vote too, President. It would be the separate vote of '1 and 2, these two separately, and the rest could go in the same package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.171.0	Mr. Romero, did you ask for the word? Don't you? Is that it? Yeah? [[Pause.]] Therefore, we shall vote separately on point 1, point 2, and headings 4a and 4.f; the remainder, we shall vote together, shall we agree? [[Pause.]] We shall therefore begin the voting. We're voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 123 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 112 votes in favour, 21 against. We're voting point number 4a now. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved with 114 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting now on 4.f. The vote begins. This point was approved with 73 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 50 abstentions. And now we're voting for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion was adopted by 120 votes to 11, with 3 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into external action]] [[302-00013/13]] Let us now turn to the twenty-first item of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on foreign action, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. You have the word to expose it to Mr Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.172.0	President, deputies, deputies, councillor... let me remind you of an obvious fact: we are a nation. Catalonia is a nation, regardless of whether I say it or stop saying the State or its preamble. And since we're born, we have perfect right, it's more, I'd say, we also have a hard time after an outside action. That we have the right is something undisputed: we are recognized by the legal order. And, moreover, the same Constitutional Court has recognized it in various sentences, with the small limits of your contrahendi and your ties. But it is that, including the Court of Auditors, it has recognized it in a report that was made in 2016, where there was no type of objection to the external action carried out by the Generality. It turns out, however, that every time that the Spanish State is wounded in its active pride some of the mechanisms of the Deep State, in this case a case where there is a refugee strain of those who feel jealous guardians of the country essences, and they have told the members of the Court of Auditors that they are carrying the cuffs – that they are carrying the cuffs –, that they are putting the punches and that, emulating what the Court of the Holy Office would do, they have completed a policy of clear confiscation as a win. A report that does not bear the slightest rigour, neither accounting nor legal, nor only from a common sense perspective. A report of prosecution which – I am advanced – in the event that the Spanish courts do not terminate it, leaving no effect, will have as a consequence a new rebuttal of the Spanish State by the European courts, by the international courts. It is obvious that this policy of confiscation is the use of the right not to resolve conflicts but as an instrument to suppress dissent. And, therefore, it is perfectly opportune that from the Parliament of Catalonia we approve a motion on which we gather, we support that the Government of Catalonia has external action; that we give support, solidarity and I would also like to say recognition to all public servants, authorities and you will function as possible for this external action; that we also ask for the fission of economic repression, in this case on behalf of the State, now, not only the Court of Auditors but also with the Attorney-General of the State in charge of the 18th Barcelona Education Court, and that we also support the courageous actions due to the end on behalf of our Government to fight against this repression. But I want to end with a warning. If there are some who think that with this repression they will manage to frighten us and that we will stop pursuing our goal, they will be wrong to fight. The prison couldn't – we've seen it with the exiles. If the State he wanted was a gesture of contricio, he did not have much, not of contricio but of firmness and of maintaining the compromise. And it's obvious that neither confiscation nor economic repression will get us to give up our goal, it's more, the more repression there is, the more loaded with reason, the more convinced we are that we have to follow our path to leave this authoritarian and demophobic state behind. And no one has any doubts: we will do it again, and as long as we do it again. We'll do whatever it takes until we get out. And, by a lot of repression there is, that no one has the doubt that we will continue to do so, that we will persist and, yes, we will win. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.173.0	Now the word, to defend the papers presented, the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.174.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies... I would like to begin with a reflection surely of a more general character. The Government of Catalonia and the Government of Spain have recently begun a stage of dialogue which is translated into a _table and a first step, which have followed the pardons. But it will be a complex process that sees a judicial process that has been unfair, in our opinion, and that is built on political tensions and political exposures to sometimes contradictions. But I think there is one element that we must always take into account: that the strategic political objective, which is to institutionalize the dialogue in our country – as well as many other objectives that for us are strategic in what you see moving forward in social, civil and political rights – also requires a political compromise to unlock the judicial framework that the People's Party has built on different constitutional bodies. And I believe that in this we must be honest: the blockade that has taken place today on the General Council of the Judiciary and the one that is ahead of today's renewal of the Constitutional Court are threats to the ability to build a phase of de-judicialization of the conflict in our country. And they are, because it is obvious that there is a political use intended in the actions that we are living and that the debate today will be another opportunity about the scrupulous respect that must be given to the bodies like the Constitutional Court. Respect for the independence of an organization which is, in this case, presided over by an ex-minister of the People's Party and which forms the majority of that organization and, among others, finds the brother of President Aznar. And I think that this situation is an inescapable political task for the majority that forms the Congress of Deputies. The People's Party says that, as a result of the pardons, it will block the renewal of the Constitutional Court and that if it is intended to change the law in order to be able to renew the Constitutional Court with other majorities it will bring it to Europe. Home, after the last report of the Council of Europe, the desire comes out, because to try to convince the European Union that to renew and to overcome the blockade of the People's Party to renew judicial bodies like the Court of Auditors or the General Council of the Judiciary turns this country into a dictatorship after the last report, I think you have a lot of work and a lot of people to convince. And what we consider to be profoundly unfair is that at one stage, it was something, especially in this process of de-judgment and dialogue, some are trying to convert the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors, into a court of adjustment of accounts, on the part of a right that is more likely to compete with its electoral opponents in Columbus than to build solutions for the Spanish Junta. And a right that is deeply convinced of something that for us is crucial, that the cohesion between the majority of progress and the plurinational majority of this country is key to blocking it to the extreme right and to building a more just and more democratic country alternative. I've said it a lot, but we'll do it again today. I don't think we should go to Madrid to ask, demand or negotiate, but to take on a co-leading responsibility for the future of this country and assume that we must be all part of the solution. A _second question, many of the defendants in this cause have been political opponents of my political formation. I personally would certainly not be here if it were not for Councillor Mas-Colell, who at my university stage was a key piece in the politicization process of my generation, but I firmly believe that one is in solidarity with the rest, that he is not in solidarity with one or his political formation partners, but one is in solidarity with the others and from here to convey our solidarity with him and with the rest of us in this part of the Constitutional Court. And a third question, when we are asked to support the external action of the Government, I think there must be another compromise, which is that the external action of the Government is held accountable in this Parliament. And that's what we discussed in the previous legislature, and I think we all have to assume. And we will abstain only at the last moment because we believe that it is not the intention of you to propose that we sign a blank cheque to support any action the Government of Catalonia is taking and that, therefore, we will debate them one at a time that you present them in this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.175.0	It has the word now, to defend the papers presented, the deputy Meritxell Serret on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.176.0	Thank you, President, Members and Members, to give thanks for the willingness of Junts' companies for Catalonia to be able to make these updates, I would say, right? , from this opportune point of view, they presented an inquiry to the Councillor, because today we are not only here to denounce the economic repression of the Court of Auditors, impropie of what would be a guaranteed democracy, but also to defend the competences of the Government of the Generality in external action and also to give support to all the mechanisms that may be needed and that, in this case, is able to defend them legitimately, legally and giving all, all the security to the workers and public workers and to the representatives that the citizenry has chosen. The objective of the Court of Auditors is to claim €5.4 million for 34 people and this is to dampen the political action of the Government of the Generality. That's what I want to put behind those people who want to explain Catalonia to the world and it's a competition that we have, that we deserve the citizenship of Catalonia and that we always defend. This Court of Auditors finds that it is, unfortunately, one of those institutions which illustrates the decadence of the 78 regulation; few do so as the Court of Auditors. It is an opaque, patrimonialized organ, secreted by a conservative majority, unable to complete its own basic function. Now, this has always been very quick at the time of pursuing the independenceists, as it was in the case of 9-N to the President But Councillors Joana Ortega and Irene Rigau, it was also done to the Government that pushed the U of October and this week it has done with all those people who have driven foreign action during these years. It is a court settled for the People's Party and also, sadly, with the complicity of the same Socialist Party, full of ex-politics and their relatives, have already repeated, the brother of Mr. Aznar expressor or a lady who is neboda of an ex-French minister and who holds the presidency. It's also an organ characterized by nepotism, more than a hundred of the seven hundred workers are familiar with other bodies and ancient counselors. It is an opaque organ that has not published the identification of its eventual roles, and therefore is an administrative organ that is specialized above all in absolved friends and pursuing political rivals. And, in this sense, it has guaranteed impunity in cases of flagrant corruption of, for example, Consellers of Esports of the PP to the Valencian Generalitat, who forced the public arches to assume a debt of 24_million euros. Also leaders of the PP like Maroto and Alonso, who had been sentenced to formalize a logger to a business friend. It's a court that specializes in covering the corruption of the People's Party and the same president recognized that they were incompetent, right? He said: "The court is coming this far. Because in the past 20 years of rising and corrupting, they were unable to find a little clue. So they admit that they are incapable, but now they are very jealous at the time of pursuing and suppressing political dissent. It is the Court of Auditors, which in this case is not taxing, is not investigating, because it has already been said that it is unable to investigate the Generality in an accounting manner, but what it is doing is to reclassify the Generality's expenses retroactively on the basis of declarations and ideological orientation of its officials, of its workers. Therefore, here, from the Republican Left Group, we give all support to the external action of the Government of Catalonia; it is fully legitimate. We also ask, then, the Government that I have always acted with this firmness and this commitment to defend the competitions of the Catalonian citizenry that its Government represents. And from here, too, we have to defend that they have right to these families that are patenting this repression to the fact that all of us who are here today are defending a democracy, a democracy with guarantees, because we are moving from the state of law to the state of justice with the performance of this Court of Auditors. It can't be that what was legal yesterday and that this Parliament and the General Intervention, one day's Ministry of Heritage for the other is illegal, were approved. And what we want to ask is that, if we want to be part of the solution all of us here in this political conflict that we have been flushing for years, and that this morning also Mrs Romero was strongly expressing that we should be all part of the solution, today they have a golden opportunity in this vote. Because we also have to demand strong democracy from all the members of this Parliament, because there are no good Catalans or bad Catalans, but there are Catalans who see daily the most basic democratic guarantees and others that unfortunately allow it. So, we're asking you to support this young man today. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.177.0	Thank you. Then, in order to set his position, Mr David Pérez, on behalf of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.178.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Councillor, Members, Members, we stand on a motion the result of an inquiry to the Foreign Council. Of the six points in this motion, five are related to the Court of Auditors. A motion to assign, therefore, the Foreign Office to the matter before the Court of Auditors. We have already announced that we will vote against all points, and we will do so from the conviction that it is a procedure that is open and that we respect the decisions of this and any court. Now, if anyone is violated their rights, what they have to do is exercise their right of appeal. We are ahead of an administrative decision that does not exhaust and that therefore does not exhaust the path of justice. We do agree that, indeed, the need to renew certain organs of state character. This is not the case, but we agree with some intervention that made this reflection too. Therefore, of these six points, five cannot vote in favour. And especially we will not vote in favour of the other point, which does not speak of the Constitutional Court, which is this point which speaks of support for the external action of the Government of Catalonia and the Diplomat. We won't. And we will not do so because the Diplomacy has lost the Parliament of Catalonia on repeated occasions. It had never happened in the history of this Parliament that once again – again – Members of this chamber had to ask, in part, the Bureau of Parliament why the Diplomat did not give them the information that was being demanded of it: again. And the Bureau of Parliament unanimously asked the councillor to give this information. And he didn't give. And the body of guarantees of this chamber has asked the government that it is giving this information that it has asked for from Members of the opposition. And he didn't give. Congresswoman Susana Beltrán, a law professor at the University of Barcelona, on repeated occasions spoke about these issues. He has applied to the Bureau of Parliament and has not obtained an essential information for us. What about the diplomat's notes sent to the consulates? We have them, but the council did not give them to us. Who's the diplomat's skill? There's no way. We don't know, we don't. Is this the example of good management? You were talking about opacity. What are the representatives of the delegations doing? There's no way. Do you know how many times these representatives have come, despite the fact that we have asked for it on different occasions? Do you know how many times this Parliament has come to give information? Captain. Not one of them. And we've asked for it on repeated occasions. I am glad that the adviser, in her intervention, said that these representatives will now come to Parliament to give this information, but until now it has not been so. We will not support this young man, therefore, because we think that transparency is the best way to prevent corruption. I repeat: transparency is the best way to prevent corruption. And on the subject of Diplomacy there was no transparency, we have no information. It was not intended to give a single information, nor one, despite the fact that this Parliament, from the Bureau and from the transparency organ, has asked for it, has asked it on repeated occasions. So I'm not counting on us. We don't want to whitewash this foreign policy. Let's hope that from now on there is another policy and we trust that it will be, but that, so far, has not been so. With us, therefore, that they do not count. And neither do I count on this division that's ugly Catalans, huh? Some Catalans who want one thing, some who want another. No, it's good to hand out catalan, left, beech books, huh? What have we done with the PSOE? So the PSOE has made the law of the right to education, the law of the universalization of sanitation, the decriminalization of aneurysm, the law of equal marriage, the law of dependence, the comprehensive law against gender-based violence... This is our full service. You're not handing out left and right books, please; don't fire. And, therefore, for all these reasons, Madam President, we will vote against all the points of this motion. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.179.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Then, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.180.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Cuevillas, I will tell you without warm cloths: this is a false, aberrant, anti-democratic, demagogic, provocative, simplistic and insulting motion. Quick: a political detritus, pure parliamentary basofia. You live in Matrix. No wonder he became famous for saying that of « avans et diuen Messi, ara et diuen Puigdemont. Center. Land. Also land when I draft these kinds of motions that have nothing to do with reality. Really, it's worth studying. One begins to read the motion and is to lie at a standstill. They insult the intelligence of the citizens, the Spanish democracy, all the institutions and all the courts. And chimpun, and here they end. That's his speech. Frankly, it's caricature. They manipulate history, objective facts, twist the truth without any shame and take advantage of the swallows of a government president, Pedro Sánchez, who is as he is, needs deputies and is going to eat absolutely everything. I understand that they are grown up, given that situation, but really, bring the text of this motion here, frankly it seems infamous to me. I find it infamous because some of us have memories, we know what has happened in Catalonia. We know what happened from 12 to 1 October 2017, which is the dirtiest, most disloyal and most ruinous thing a politician can do in a public institution, which is to attack coexistence, sow violence, play against the prosperity of all and destroy the constitutional order. And that's what you did. And it's not my opinion, it's how the Constitutional Court credited it – forgiveness, Supreme. It's not an opinion, therefore. Not by chance did thousands of companies flee, there was a massive capital flight, we all saw with our eyes that coup attempt that ended the bones of all their heads in prison, a place where they should continue if there was justice in this country. We all saw a trial broadcast on television, with all the procedural guarantees, to a gang of criminals who wanted to break Spain in two by jumping all the rules, all the guarantees of the rule of law and embezzling quite millions of public money. And that... that's what the sentence says. Therefore, Mr. Cuevillas, park the classic story this childish, manipulative and tearful that they usually make, right? Stop whitewashing these beating ramps who live to blackmail an unworthy and treacherous government that has granted, in exchange for not knowing what, pardons that almost no one likes. Practically no one. Therefore, the eleven of VOX will continue to raise our voice before this contemptible and quite predictable political rhyme. We will work to defend the prestige of state institutions, from the monarchy to the Supreme Court passing through the Court of Auditors, that we hope that it will not settle political coercion and pressure as it does its kneeling Union of Accounts, which has never seen any irregularity at any time because it always looks elsewhere. Stop breaking the foundations of democracy. Stop blackmailing and extortioning and putting dynamite on what has been joining us with the Spaniards for the past five centuries. From VOX we'll do everything we can, everything within the democratic framework, so that their frontrunners return everything they've stolen. I say this to you in a sharp, explicit and unequivocal way. We are already working on the denunciation of embezzlement and prevarication after the creation of this fund to pay for the personal finances of the coups. We're going to remove heaven and earth so Catalans don't pay out of their pocket again the embezzled. Neither will we accept referendums, amnesties, self-determinations or dialogue tables with intolerant evildoers who take advantage of public resources to continue spitting on the external image of Spain. Is it not embarrassing for them to spend EUR 10 million on credit, with which it is falling in Catalonia, with the number of unemployed, with the number of people suffering from poverty? Was there not another more reasonable destination to invest those €10 million? Really, make them look at it. It bothers them with justice, it bothers them with the Treasury, it bothers them with the National Police, it bothers them with the Civil Guard, it bothers them with the Court of Auditors..., in short, everything that prevents them from continuing to crack! Make him look at it – make him look at it. [[Some applause.]] Don't forget: Spain is much more than a weak president. Spain is many, very powerful institutions and we will defend the rule of law. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.181.0	Then there is the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.182.0	Well, thank you, President. First of all, you go for our absolute solidarity with all the people who have been persecuted by the Court of Auditors and also for all the more than three thousand people who suffer persecution and repression to defend ideas and a political project that is absolutely legitimate and democratic, that of our country's independence. Go for our most absolute solidarity. And it must take into account – it must take into account – that despite the pardons – despite the pardons – the repression continues. The repression continues and will continue, it will continue while from this band you have who wants to continue fighting to exercise the right to self-determination. And there's a problem with the PSOE government and we can, and it's normal, despite the pardons, that repression continues; it's natural. Why? Because they claim that there can be dialogue and negotiation when there is repression. And, listen to me, this is the core of democracy, this is the core of a democratic resolution process of conflict, and a process of dialogue and negotiation. There can be no dialog if there is repression – there can be no dialog if there is repression. Therefore, with tugs, with bars and bars there can be no dialogue and negotiation, and who says that there is no lie – is lying – is talking about fiction. Because the democratic resolution of this conflict will only truly be given when it is recognized that we are a nation, and that, therefore, we are a right-wing political subject; when all forms of repression are ended and amnesty applied, and a democratic instrument will be put in place to resolve the conflict democratically, probably – the most widely used at the international level – a reference. And there will be no democratic resolution of the conflict – if they do not comply with these conditions. And we all know that the democratic resolution of this conflict raised in these terms will give in an international context, it will give in a framework of international concertation and negotiation and of multilateral nature. And that's why we're talking about foreign policy and international policy, and that's why there's the repression of the Court of Auditors, because everyone knows that this conflict will take on a real level of resolution in an international _framework and scene. Therefore, the international scene is a phonetic scene in this political dispute, and it is a phonetic scene in which to build hegemony and win the report. And that's why it gives a real political and repressive battle on the part of the State on international soil. And what we want, precisely, is to win this report internationally. And what we want to do is make it indefugeable at the international level to arbitrate by means of a self-determination reference and the application of amnesty. This is our project, that is to say, to generate a democratic conflict of such magnitude, of such size, of such abyss, a democratic revolution of such magnitude that makes the international community consider indefusible and irreversible a reference of self-determination and the application of amnesty. And that's why we defend our right to foreign policy and public diplomacy. Not only that, but also for the legitimate right to project our country abroad. Obviously – obviously – this is a motivation. One reason for this is our desire for our country to be an international referent from the point of view of a new public diplomacy, of a new foreign policy to serve a new world order based on equality, justice, pau and solidarity, a project, in short, internationalist. But we also want public diplomacy and foreign policy because we have right, like the country, like the people, like the citizenry, like political groups and like institutions, to defend the right to self-determination and amnesty in the international context. And that's never gonna be a crime. And, of course, it's perfectly legitimate to have complete public service, because there were fifty-two per cent of the population who voted on the 14th of February for us to do so. Therefore, we would not be able to fulfil our democratic compromise if we did not do so. And that can't be any more repression. Therefore, we will vote in favour of this motion, because we defend and defend our right to an active international policy such as the key to the democratic resolution of the conflict, and because, obviously, we are on the side of all the anti-repressive measures to defend the civil rights, the political and democratic rights of the people who have been retaliated, as well as those of the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.183.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, Mr Matías Alonso has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.184.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, ladies and gentlemen, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the heretics of Chief Pujol, and who, with Artur Mas in the lead, decided to pull for the right in a desperate attempt to cover up the shames of more than thirty years of institutionalized corruption, to give us today a new exhibition of what is the capture of his political action: to maintain the caste privileges that have been built after forty years of the highest institutions of power in Catalonia to the detriment of the general interest of the city council. Because, actually, that's why this young man went. And, of course, they have to dress it up, and what better dress than to serve the propaganda, a specialty of the house. The deputy who defended the motion, like the one who made the inquiry on June 17, showed us a wide range of the propaganda argumentaries of separatism. Catalonia, its imagined Catalonia, follows the beautiful mig of the universe, and each and every nation of the world, leaving behind the Spanish birth, orbits it with the eyes of the plate that generates the admiration overflowing with a new republic where everyone will be able to eat ice cream with desserts. The proposed group has seen it essential to make an exhibition of motius to the young person, leaving behind the usual parliamentary practice that leaves the motius exhibitions for the motions for resolutions. But it must be that there was not enough with the fantastic exposition – not for good, but for not touching a few on the ground – that they did to the inquiry, and today they have to explain to us again the film of this repression, of the perfidy of the oppressive state, of the systematic persecution of ideas. As if it were a good idea to get your hands on the box to pay for the separatist party on the sidelines of democratic order and external action competitions, which are many others who do not want to see their propaganda and their buying of their wills, enter into the contract of lobbying in an opaque way, as they have done repeatedly in the United States of America. Mirin, lords and deputies of the separatist bench, the Court of Auditors is a constitutional body with full jurisdiction over public accounts throughout the State – therefore also of the Generality. The functions of this supreme taxing organ of public accounts are regulated by the Organic Law 2/1982, of 12 May, in conformity with Article 136 of the Spanish Constitution. This scandal continued and persisted to stay hand in hand in the box on behalf of several high offices of the Administration of the Government of Catalonia, the one who should have unravelled the Union of Accounts, but perhaps it was not one of the priorities of this autonomous organ, also a tax collector of public accounts and which, by the way, should have renewed the previous legislature. The dominant separatism in this chamber took care not to, surely because there would have been some new member proposed for Ciutadans, who was then the first party in this Parliament. This is certainly an inexhaustible risk for those who are used to doing and defusing everything, but especially for those who do public spending, according to their whims and interest without any scruples. We have seen and have dedicated funds to social services to pay for the separatist party of late 2017. Or we have seen how the other branches of the Government of the Generality have been condemned for the ill-treatment of the money of all Catalans in their separatist day, which ended with the end of democracy that they carried out in late 2017 and which they carefully prepared devoting to it all the public resources that came to their liking at least during the two previous legislatures. Now they want to take the cat to the top of the ranks to which the Court of Auditors is asking for bail in order to ensure that public funds that are badly damaged can be recovered for the public sector; the public sector, which is home to the money of all and each of the citizens' taxpayers who pay on time, tax year, their taxes, and which is not conceived as a partisan tool to pull for the right and raise the rights of Catalan citizens. These rights of citizenship that you, who are the victim of the exercise of power with totalitarian impulses, have climbed unscrupulously in the sad days of 6 and 7 September 2017, who wanted to legitimize it with the "botifarendum of the U of October and which they have consummated even though it was only for eight seconds in the October 10th charlotte in this Parliament. Maybe I don't want you to tell her that we won't give any support to this young man, because, to our mind, in a social and democratic state of law like Spain, who has to pay for it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.185.0	And finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.186.0	Thank you very much, President. I would like to begin by thanking Mr Cuevillas very sincerely for his recognition of the Court of Auditors' resolutions when necessary, and he has done so when the Court of Auditors effectively recognizes that the autonomous communities have the capacity to conduct politics and external action. Now, when I don't fit it, like a little boy, then I criticize it. She reminded me of my four-year-old daughter, who when I give her the reason she makes me a petonet and when I deny her she sticks and makes me ganyotes. But he was still more tender and childish when he said, Mr. Cuevillas, that we would do it again. You had your opportunity at the Bureau of Parliament, I will not say for a question of personal respect, that there is none, that has been joined, let us tell us that your soul has been appeased, to say it more so. In short, with conquerors like you the defenders of the Spanish unit can be very quiet. But entering into the matter of the motion, actually, not only does the Court of Auditors say, it is perfectly recognized in our legal order: the autonomous Spanish communities have the capacity of external action. For what? Economic dynamism, cultural dynamism, a certain view of the world, and so much so; not Spain's disdain or misrepresentation of public foundations, which has been the focus of external action in Catalonia in recent years. So don't tell lies. Second question. In this young man you raise the absolute immunity of separatist policies, that is to say, a separatist caste that would not be submissive to any type of legal principle and would, therefore, make its political criteria what you wanted. I just want to remind you that this is..., in short, the iniquitous of any authoritarian or totalitarian rule: policies that decide that, only by the fact of having a short-term parliamentary majority, you have the right to do what you want and that you do not have any legal limit. And also remember that they lose all hope, that the state of right will prevail. Sure. It's not a threat, it's a question of absolute democratic normality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.187.0	And finally, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word the deputy Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.188.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, I want to give thanks, first of all, to the groups that have announced that they will give recollection and to those who do not do so, they have done so in the right way and legitimately manifesting their differences. I move forward as we accept most of the papers submitted for Republican Left; 1, 3, 4 and 5. And I'm just responding to two personal allusions. Mr. Fernández, well, I didn't expect you to pick me up, but I'm telling you, even though you did, I wouldn't have been willing to come and make a peto, which I know. And to Mr. Macián, well, I hear from his words that he won't give us a lift, because he didn't say so, but it seemed to me that he didn't. But I want to say to one and the other that, in fact, we are being disturbed by those organs of the Spanish State that exercise repression when they bulge with the flag in the accounts of the legal order. And if they say we're upset about Spain; well, you're upset about Europe, huh? And we believe, of course, that we believe in the state of law, we believe in the state of law that Europe will ultimately impose. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.189.0	So, then, we'll start the vote. The vote begins... [[David Cid Colomer asks to speak.]] Excuse me? To ask for the separate vote, Mr. Cid?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.190.0	Yes, in order to ask for the separate vote from point 6.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.191.0	Six. Is that the only separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] We therefore repeat this vote on this motion. Let's start by voting point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 73 votes to 53, with 8 abstentions. And now we're voting for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. And the motion was adopted by 81 votes to 53. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the model and priorities in the field of infrastructure]] [[302-00014/13]] Let's move to the twenty-one point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the model and priorities in the matter of infrastructures, presented by the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos. To expose her, Mr. David Cid has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.192.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, I'd like to start with a thank you to Marc Parés, who is the deputy who worked the inquiry and who also worked the young man and worked with all the groups, who today can't be here with us because it's close contact. And, therefore, I want to send him a hug too. It's okay, it's okay; in any case, it's not positive. But I think it's worth recognizing the work done, right? In the end, we were discussing the model and infrastructure priorities today. And we understand it's basically a debate about past and future, huh? Greta Thunberg said our house is in flames and while we make empty promises that are always the same, inaction is the same. And I'm sure – and then I'll come back – that if you were Greta Thunberg in the Parliament of Catalonia today, most of the Maldarian groups would run to try to take a picture of her. Then another thing is what happens with votes and concrete proposals, isn't it? And these days we are seeing, in a climate-emergency context – which is what led to this great mobilization, for example, of Fridays for Future –, as, for example, we are experiencing heat waves, "hot domes, which say meteorologists and scientists, right? These days, for example, the historical record went out to Canada, fifty degrees. And someone may think that this is a long way to go, but it seems that this weekend in Spain we can reach a forty-seven degree record in a provincial capital. I, therefore, forty-seven degrees, which is no less. And, in addition, in the Mediterranean and the Iberian Peninsula, there has been a windfall more rapid than in other parts of Europe and in other parts, for example, also of the planet. But before these, too, messages, sometimes, catastrophes, I think we also have to send a message of hope, that is that we are still in time if we measure and if we measure differently from what we are, among other things, discussing in Catalonia. And so there's an alternative and we don't have to paralyze. And here is the debate on AENA's proposal, on Mr Lucena's proposal, collected with joy also for the Socialist Party and Mr Illa, and this debate is about the expansion of the airport and, specifically, about the enlargement of the third runway. We've listened to everything. We have listened in this very Parliament to say that Catalonia knows perfectly well how to expand five hundred more meters of track, which we can do. Well, more than expanding is asphalting five-hundred_metres more track. We have also heard here that we can and want to reach 100_million annual passengers to Prat – 100_million annual passengers to Prat –, also to Mr. Illa. And we are clear, too, before the silence of the Generality, because in the end, yes, it is very well a technical table; I think it is good that we have a table of consensus, it is good that everyone brings his proposals, but we still do not know which is the proposal of the Generality. We do have a proposal and in the motion we place it, that we are against the expansion of the third track of the Prat and end..., say so, and asphalt the Ricardo, which is the proposal, at these moments, that Mr. Lucena and Mr. Illa put to us. We believe that it is an old proposal, that it is an unsustainable proposal, that it exacerbates climate change and that it is a proposal of the past century. And what we believe is that we need to bet on a Catalan airport system, that there is – that there is – which, moreover, can improve it with rail connections. And, above all, work – which is the objective of this joint airport system – to reduce the number of flights to Catalonia, and especially those flights, obviously of short distance. Reducing and eliminating flights, for example, with Madrid, for example, with Valencia or, for example, with southern France, replacing them with railway infrastructure. And, in short, because in the end the 2030 agenda cannot be a pin to a flap, but it must be a concrete compromise of action. Catalonia doesn't make planes, but it does make trains. Because everybody, many times, we talk about the Catalan industry, but we here have a big company, which is Alstom, which seems that sometimes we don't forget, which, moreover, is a company that has great capacity to produce trains and to produce trams. And in the end this is a debate about the economic model, if in the end it is the Catalonia of the 100_million passengers of Prat, Hard Rock, Terramar, more Formula 1, MotoGP and the great prize, right? In this case, of Formula 1, and Catalonia, also of the Olympic Winter Games, thirty degrees, or at the end it is a Catalonia that is that of science, that of research, that of innovation, technology, and yes, that of the trains, because in the end, we also bet to build better railway infrastructure, to build the train tram of the Bages, to build the train tram of Tarragona, to build also the train tram of the Costa Brava, to connect the R4 and the R8. In short, to build Catalonia of the train, because Catalonia will be railway or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.193.0	Next, he has the word to defend the papers presented on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.194.0	I have already announced to you, honourable Member, that we will support all proposals for the study of tram trains and other trains. We are grateful that you have accepted the message of the rail connection of the two Vallesos through the R8 line and the R4 through a bypass, a simple operation, even from the economic point of view. And yes, the Government of Spain knows that in Catalonia we have a large company that builds trains and trams and that is why it has done a very important task to modernise and change all the units of Rodalies not only in Catalonia but in the joint venture of the joint venture of Spain. Yes, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units have made it clear that we are in favour of the expansion of the Barcelona airport to make it a great international hub. No, as you say, to capture low-cost tourists, but to do something more important for the Catalan economy, which is for the capture of entrepreneurs, new businesses, innovative entrepreneurs, digital entrepreneurs in our country. Miri, in the Committee for the Development of Aerial Routes of Catalonia there is the Generality of Catalonia and there is the Assembly of Barcelona, which has a mayor who is of the same formation, of which you form part. Miri, this organization is promoting the arrival of new routes, scale routes and transoceanic routes in Catalonia, what are these types of routes that will be the ones that will have a major projection in the future, right? and that the Catalan economy and Catalan businesses are asking for. And it's a contradiction, Mr. Cid, from my point of view, allowing me to try to capture these new routes, how it's going and not allowing the evolution of the airport to an international hub, huh? And it's not true, it doesn't work anywhere that you're trying to install, is it? That is to say, these new routes will not go, even though we have come, to Girona airport or to Reus airport; even though the railway connections are better, which are to be improved. So much so that the airport of Girona, you know perfectly well, that the study is being conducted so that there is a high speed train station so that you can connect this airport with Barcelona or anyone else, but the nine routes that you are trying to catch and that you are catching in the city of Barcelona for the airport of Barcelona - El Prat will not go to either the airport of Girona or the airport of Reus. In any case, at Girona airport and Reus airport, where further investment is required, there will be other types of routes another type of aircraft and people. We believe that enlargement can be achieved. First, the construction of the satellite terminal that is necessary for flights with a transoceanic scale, making this expansion, and building, huh? The third runway at the airport, they're planning, huh? , environmental impact and preservation measures. And it's true. Ricardo is one of a protected space, but you know as well as I do European legislation, that many times we call it, which is guaranteed with protected spaces, allows the modification of Natura 2000 spaces always under public interest criteria, that we believe that in this case they are more than justified, whenever they are balanced, and they grow, with other areas of the same area. We think things have to be done with care, but they have to be done, huh? If we do not lose a historic opportunity for the country, we will lose a historic opportunity for investments and above all we will lose a historic opportunity that comes new economy new businesses and that we believe work places in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.195.0	Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Deputy David Saldoni has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.196.0	Very honourable President of Parliament. Honourable Vice-President, Counsellor, illustrious Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, it is an honour for me to be able to address the Chamber for the first time as a Member of the Parliament of Catalonia, a Chamber representing the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia and since we work for the better quality of life of Catalans and Catalans in a free country. And now it's up to us to debate a part of the country's infrastructure, a movement that touches certain aspects of the challenges Catalonia has in terms of infrastructure. One of the important points of this motion is the bet because the Prat airport can have all those international connections necessary for the competitiveness of the country and find the best solution to make it possible in the framework of the technical table where the assemblies and the administrations involved will work to achieve the best agreement. And we're betting that this competition has been tied to Catalonia's airport network, plugging in and enhancing Reus and Girona's airports with the arrival of high speed and also a good tax policy that doesn't leave them at all, as it happens in many moments. And we are convinced that we are able to achieve the objective of making Prat airport a hub of international connections while respecting the environment and the environment. That's the point. More than this important point, we are also talking about the round of the Vallès, a separate infrastructure in three trams, the first of which, between Abrera and Viladecavalls, is in construction since the year 2006. Fifteen years to make fifteen miles, and it's not over yet. What we do need to do is stop because the State, in this case, is developing this infrastructure at a better rate. The second tram is the bridge between Viladecavalls and the West Sabadell round, connecting it to the B-124, just to improve the traffic that would lead to the center of Terrassa. This tram, contemplated in the Specific Mobility Platform of the Vallès, includes this north round in the urban systems of Terrassa and Sabadell, and in the case of the tram between Sabadell and the Rock of the Vallès, we propose forbearance, precisely because in this tram it has not yet been defined even if it is to be done or not. In the Vallès Special Mobility Platform, it is envisaged that from Sabadell it is necessary to open the debate and be able to reach consensus. That is why we believe that in our own months and years the territory with the administrations will decide whether or not to do this infrastructure. In this sense, we do agree on the priority of the orbital railway line between Sabadell and Granollers, having as a priority intrinsically linked to the better of mobility the fight against climate change. Another aspect of this young man's work is the study and analysis of the viability of train-tramway proposals both to the Bages, taking advantage of the lines of goods of Sallent and Syria, or to the Costa Brava. In these cases we must be able to study the best alternatives. We have to value the necessary investment and operating costs. We also need to see what is the viability of the service, since it is very important to move forward with the ultimate goal, which is the presence and quality of public transport to all the municipalities of Catalonia. And we need to find out who the best alternatives are to make it possible. We don't want to move empty iron, but we want to move people. That is why I would also like to highlight the growth of sustainable transport with express bus lines or in digitalized transport. Finally, there is a point that refers to the transformation of the National II into its step for the Maresme taking advantage of the liberation of the toll of the C-32. This transformation will be a great improvement for the region and for the country, a space that has to be transformed peacefully, a space that has to gather space for the vehicle in a more u format, a bicycle lane space and an expansion of wants, so as to facilitate the step for the roadfarer, since after the strategy of the bicycle we also have to work the strategy of the roadfarer, since walking is how they do most of the trajectories. At the moment, the distribution study of the Pla del Maresme mobility is being drafted, a very worked-out pact for the Maresme County Council and the assemblies involved, to which we appreciate the work so that we can find the best options, and one of them is that we are working at this very moment. Finally, this young man contemplates a point that I wanted to leave in the end, precisely because it is the condition necessary to be able to have a model of infrastructures in Catalonia of first level, and it is the transfer of the competence of all the railway and airport infrastructures of Catalonia to be able to manage them with a new model of governance suitable for Catalonia that you have for the quality, for the sustainability and for the good governance of our infrastructures. And finally I would like to thank the Members for the compromise, because in this case it was my first motion and I would also like to thank them for the work and patience in order to reach these agreements, which is an example of what we can do to Parliament, also in the country's joint. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.197.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Ferran Estruch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.198.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice President, councillor, deputies and deputies, very late. First of all, let me express the honor and satisfaction that I need to be able to address all of you from this cliff. Before this motion on the model and priorities in the field of infrastructure, please especially thank the group of commons for their willingness to introduce the issues to be negotiated, and especially the Member of Parliament and the Member of Parliament Cid. Thank you, therefore, also for this work. Before we begin, I would also like to highlight our group's commitment to the unequivocal fight against climate change and, obviously, with energy transition. And they're not empty words, but the government we're part of and chairing is a climate action council with a clear plan. Therefore, facts and no words. In front of this young man, to say them, to find, that the councillor in commission has already presented the Pla de Govern in matter of mobility and infrastructures. I believe, however, that this motion serves us to prioritise, to concretely, to go further into detail, and it is a demonstration of what we must do: to agree, to negotiate and to reach great agreement in this Parliament. One of the wide-ranging agreements that the motion has is that – and we consider it a priority – Catalonia has to decide the future of the mobility infrastructure system, and obviously also port and airport infrastructure. In fact, our group obviously wants to decide everything, but in this case there was already a consensus and we believe that it is very important, therefore, this consensus and the importance of deciding the future, the future of the infrastructure system. That's why what they claim from the Republican Left Parliamentary Group of Catalonia is that we don't require it to be managed and we celebrate, therefore, that this motion backs this demand. The model we defend and work must be and must be developed in accordance with the territory, a model of mobility infrastructures must be developed with the territory, with territorial balance, with respect to the environment and, I repeat, managed from here, from Catalonia, without impositions. We want the skills of all infrastructures so that we can manage them with a suitable governance model and encourage the reversal of the system as a whole, both by road and by rail, and we want to manage it, and we are fully aware that we need to age to reduce emissions and minimize the environmental impact. From Esquerra we truly believe in territorial balance and generate new opportunities, visquem where we visquem their citizens, the citizens of Catalonia. That's why worthy, citizen-friendly infrastructure, realistic projects that generate opportunities across the country, across all regions, leaving aside those pharaohic projects like, for example, the Fourth Belt, that destroy our territories and that are not needed at these times, are not the infrastructures of the 21st century, they're models..., it's a fallen and ancient model. Public transport. Talk about it in this young man, we talk about it extensively. The Left Bet for public transport is indisputable. We have a lot of work to do, the government has a lot of work to do, this Parliament has a lot of work to do. We will fight for a viable and functioning public transport, from the Bages to the Maresme, passing through the Ebra, the Gironine comarques or the Pyrenees. A sustainable, balanced and people-driven model. For what she does to the airport, which also speaks a lot, has been commented by MP Lluïsa Llop. I need to work the consensus seriously. The procedure initiated by AENA for the expansion of the airport does not please anyone, nor does it please us, neither the foundation, nor the forms, nor the presses, nor the impositions. It is necessary to build among all a proposal of sustainable consensus, which respects the territory and, obviously, the conjunction of the delta and, especially, the Ricardo. A proposal to emerge from the table promoted by the Government of the Generalitat. We also believe that any proposal must be to build a Catalan airport model of major intercontinental connectivity, also counting on Reus and Girona. And other more concrete objectives that have been discussed: the orbital of the Vallès, the Bages, the Maresme, execute the master plans of mobility and the plans of infrastructures. You're very urgent and you need to address us. And others who don't talk to the youth, such as the implementation of the winery or the T-Mobility, which is also working there. We have a clear objective: sustainable infrastructure and efficient public transport for a Catalonian network serving its citizens, all over the territory, to reduce it, to co-ordinate it and also, obviously, to help the productive economy. In short, to aspire to a diverse, sustainable, well-connected and cohesive country. We're working on all the folds for this. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.199.0	Next, and to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Andrés Bello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.200.0	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. We are presented by the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Pomão with a motion on infrastructure with a wide range of measures and with little relation between them. They propose the extension of some railway line or directly the construction of new railway lines. As far as roads are concerned, it proposes to stop some major project or to convert a high-use road, such as the national road II, into a bicycle lane. With regard to air transport, they want to prevent the expansion of Barcelona airport – indeed, a proposal made by the Government of Spain, of which you are a part – and at the same time to connect it through AVE with the airports of Reus and Girona, which is a change in its opposition to the development of AVE in Spain, a position maintained so far by the communist group. Welcome. All these proposals justify them and involve them in the well-known theses' progress on climate change, which, as we know, they use to justify anything, however crazy this may be. It seems unnecessary to say that we are all in favour of developing infrastructure and improving the mobility of both people and goods. No one can find it wrong to develop the intermodality between the different modes of transport, thereby improving the exercise of the right to mobility. But we believe that it is a serious mistake to make economic development and the well-being of citizens conditional on what we could call 'ecologicalism', that new religion from which no one can dissociate, the green religion. The development of infrastructure and the promotion of conservationism are perfectly compatible, both in the planning and execution of the works themselves and in carrying out compensatory measures if necessary. Improvement of infrastructure, yes, but promotion of conservationism, too. It draws attention in your proposal to the exclusion of the State in the planning of mobility infrastructures, especially when you are part of that government to which you wish to exclude. This exclusion has been aggravated by its acceptance of the amendment that I have already mentioned by Esquerra Republicana and Junts to urge the State to transfer the competition of all the railway and airport infrastructures of Catalonia. Gentlemen of En Comú Puerde, sincerely, we do not understand your policy of making partake of separatism. They propose to us the creation of new railway lines, but they do not bring or mention any study of demand or its cost. Something similar happens with his proposal to partially convert the national II into a bicycle lane. No report is provided on whether alternative routes are going to be able to absorb current and future demand, or on whether the citizens of the Maresme are going to be condemned to continuous circulatory blockades. From the VOX Parliamentary Group, we believe that we must be very careful with the use of public resources and, especially, at times such as the current ones, in which the effects of the current economic crisis are visible: increased unemployment and poverty, with large population groups who need help to survive, deterioration of public services with long waiting lists for access to official protection housing, to an elderly residence or to receive medical care. We believe that spending priorities must be set very well. The limited public resources currently available for the development of mobility infrastructures should be applied where they are more efficient and can benefit a greater number of people, such as the improvement of railway proximity or investments to facilitate the transport of goods, especially those destined for export. For all that we have said, from the VOX Group, we will vote 'no' to your proposal. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.201.0	Next, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the words of Mrs Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.202.0	President... MPs and MPs, we, the Candidature for Popular Unity will vote in favour of Point 1, which says that the Generality is the one who has to decide on mobility infrastructure in Catalonia, and also in favour of Point 2, which shows a frontal opposition to the AENA proposal. Indeed, we oppose, on the side..., not only the CUP, but at the side of more than three hundred entities of Catalan civil society, to this proposal of AENA applauded for the economic lobby of our country. This day's ESADE photo. AENA, which we have to put on the table which is AENA, this mixed company formed by the Spanish government and private companies, funds inclusive, quoted on the stock exchange, with absolutely bad accounting numbers, which is called, like all these mixed companies, to socialize lost but never won. In fact, the Territorial Commission of this Parliament has already adopted a resolution against the expansion of the airport. Therefore, it is not only now a matter of preserving the natural space of Ricardo, which is essential, we cannot lose a single pam, but also that the debate is and we have to open it in the climate impact of this model of mobility. At the 2a point of the vote, that is why we cannot vote in favour. If we consider that the Prat airport cannot be extended because of the climate impact it entails, then we cannot vote in favour of creating technical tables which serve to justify international connections of Prat and AVE connections of Girona and Reus airports. It's tech fetishism. I can't technically think of the connection of the AVE of Girona and Reus to improve competitiveness, as we hear it. If what it takes to reduce winter-effect gases, if what it takes to precisely preserve diversity, because there are legal requirements that so force us, then what it takes only and exclusively is to reduce flights and not to invent new AVE connections. There is a decline in the airport sector and this has to be unitary and integral throughout the country. Declining and diversifying sectors, this is our recipe. Promoting these two airports, Girona and Reus, contradicts the declaration of the climate-emergency state that we have in force in our country since 2019. And not to expand the airport of Barcelona, but to pose as an option to plant increments to Girona and Reus, so we understand that it is to cheat on the solitary. What needs to happen is a paradigm shift. There is a climate crisis, energy crisis, biodiversity that needs to be addressed and the bone spring is the air traffic. In fact, experts say that we are no longer in time to stop this climate change but that what remains is to minimize its consequences. Tourism as a model generates job insecurity, generates emissions. There have been very recent studies, for example, in France that say that the seventy-five per cent of tourist emissions are due to transport, precisely, and forty-one per cent to air transport. Tourism, therefore, causes precariousness, causes emissions, expels people from the cities, because they significantly increase the prices of housing and, therefore, we must rethink making a total contribution to the model. We don't have much hope that, by the end of the day, we can make this paradigm shift, even though that's why we won't stop insisting on it. The capitalist model has very strong tools in its abyss and goes from these technical norms, these reports that always justify it to the terraplanism of other plantations of certain political groups. That's why it's hard to make this paradigm shift, but in any case what's clear is that the decrease will come and the decrease will come by force and faster than we think. And, with illustrative effects, I recommend, deputies and deputies, therefore, to review the appearance made by the doctor in physics, Antonio Turiel, to the Senate, in which he exposed what few resorted to today's fossil fuels. And, therefore, what Aena is putting on the table, this expansion of the airport, is an infrastructure that is already obsolete and that is present because of the oil crisis, when it is already seen that there is no form of virtuality that I can pull forward. For all this, we will vote affirmatively for a few points of the motion, but we cannot vote in favour of it, and therefore our vote will be against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.203.0	Thank you. Next, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word the deputy Marina Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.204.0	Thank you, President. Mr David Cid, you know that we are able to reach many agreements and today almost conquers me with that of the railway Catalonia; you know that I like that idea very much, but it is that your motion, the motion that we are presented today, starts very badly. It has good things, of course, and in all that we agree to enhance rail transport, to combat climate change, to improve bus services or intermodality, for we will certainly support it. He'll find us by his side. But I'm telling you, the motion starts wrong. The first points are worrying. In general, the situation in this Parliament is quite worrying. We have a nationalism that is totally abandoned to populism, which presents initiatives that I believe, if many of them ten years ago saw each other now, they would take their hands to the head. And then we have a populism that assumes absolutely all the mantras of nationalism. And between one and the other, they just miss out on opportunities. And this motion, at least the beginning of this motion, seems to go from that, of wanting to make us lose even more opportunities. The first point says that Parliament considers that it is the Generalitat who, with its absolute power, I suppose, has to decide on the infrastructures of Catalonia. And let's see, don't be surprised, I of course want the Generalitat to decide on the infrastructure of Catalonia. I want you to decide once and for all to finish the 9_de_metro line, for example; or I want you to decide why the tram train hasn't started yet, when we knew for decades that the train going through Salou and Cambrils as it didn't pass there; or I would also like you to decide to start the 1_de_metro line once again to connect Santa Coloma de Gramenet and Badalona as my colleague Dimas has requested from here on many occasions and I too. All that has to be decided and of all that, because, it does not decide anything, it does not start anything and it does not execute practically anything. But I imagine that Mr David Cid did not mean that, because there was a nuance that made me doubt; in that phrase where he said that the Generalitat had to decide on the system, on the infrastructures of Catalonia, he said that also included airports and ports. Even at airports you have things to decide, look what I tell you. They could decide, for example, how to get Lleida-Alguaire Airport to reach its passenger target. Lleida-Alguaire Airport, last year, not that of the pandemic but the previous one, reached 58,000 travellers, which is a success, but it has already been working for more than ten years. And for that stage, by the time it's been going on for more than ten years, do you know how many travelers were planned? Do you know how many travellers justified the investment made at Lleida-Alguaire Airport? 395,000 travelers, 395,000 travelers are the ones they had to have. Decide. Decide and decide very well what to do so that the airport can get that number of passengers or at least stop being deficient. But no, I suspect that when they say that they decide on infrastructures they do not refer to any of the examples I have put forward. They refer to the fact that they want to cut our rail system, our airport system, our port system and, in fact, there is a point that says it expressly: that all the competences regarding the airport system and the rail system be transferred. Well, our rail, airport and port system takes advantage of synergies that allow it to belong to a larger territory, which is that of our State, that of Spain. For example, for my brother, who lives in Zaragoza, Barcelona Airport is his airport of reference and I am sure that for many people in Lleida, when he has to look for flights, he looks both at flights departing from Barcelona and from Madrid. Being able to take account of the whole of the territory allows us, without a doubt, for example, here to have many more frequencies and to have many more flights. And I want that, that all to remain so. I want the decisions to be taken, to think about what is most efficient and what is most effective for all citizens. And I doubt, I doubt very much that you are taking them on that basis. Well, I've only got 20 seconds left. I'm telling you, they're not gonna find us in that. There are a lot of points that talk about stopping infrastructure, in those because neither are they going to find us, of stopping planned infrastructure that has a proven socio-economic profitability. And others who talk about studying or doing new infrastructure projects that are not in any planning. We're not going to oppose it, but I tell you, and we know it from experience and I think you know it too, that when this government doesn't want to do a play, what it does is announce a study or a project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.205.0	And finally, for the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs. Lorena Roldán's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.206.0	Yes, thank you, President. The truth is that, listening to some of the Members, listening to Mr Estruch and Mr Saldoni de Esquerra and Mr de Junts, it seems that you have never ruled. They come here with points that are the competence of the Generalitat and tell us here today that this is extremely urgent that we get to work. Yes, it is very urgent and it has been very urgent already in the previous legislature, when you were ruling, and also the previous one, when you were also ruling. So, well, let's see if it's true that we finally unblock certain things. In fact, we are going to vote in favour of these points, which, I insist, are the competence of the Generalitat, which we have been demanding for a long time, that many of them are fundamental to the fight against climate change, in which we are practically the majority of this Parliament in agreement, so, well, to see if it is true that there is such a political will to get to work and that we do not find here the legislature that comes again with you demanding urgency. You've missed me a lot. I have also missed where the proposal comes from, a proposal by En Comú Pomera regarding infrastructure. I think it has been noted here today that you, for example, want to oppose the AENA proposal, when from the executive itself, from the Spanish Government itself, in which you are, this proposal comes. So it's a little..., a little incoherent, actually. Incoherent and, moreover, well, you are the first to put clubs to the wheels with the infrastructures and it is that there is nothing more to listen to Mrs Colau, who is that of "not everything: not the airport, not the port, not the cruises..., not everything. I still remember Mrs. Gala Pin saying that the cruises were a plague of locusts. I mean, wow, it seems to me that I'm missing and you guys have a little bit of incoherence and I don't know how this is gonna turn out, but good. There are points that we like and points that we do not, I tell you, we are going to make a little mix, for example, when voting. For example, at the first point, well, here you have accepted an amendment by the groups supporting the Government that they want to decide for themselves the future of infrastructure. It is not clear to me what this point refers to. I mean, are you here demanding competences, as you do, for example, in point 5, or are you here what you want? That the state keeps putting the money in, but you decide what to do with it? Because that scares me a little, knowing them – it scares me a little. It is then true that in point 5 they do already demand the competences and also express port and airport competences. In other words, they do not exercise their powers well, they do not exercise them. They just gave them examples: Line 9 of the subway, with those cost overruns, and that we've been waiting for for for how long for line 9. If everything's gonna do the same, I'm scared. The tram train, Camp de Tarragona, has also been mentioned. I, who have been Tarragona since 2001 – since 2001 – have been hearing about the tram train in Tarragona. It's been twenty years – twenty years. At last, in 2016, it seems that the thing got a little more serious, already you want to take advantage of Renfe's layout and it looks like you will see the light of the project, but it is that we have been on the tram for twenty years. So, if all the skills you have are going to exercise the same, then perhaps first you focus on yours and, when you have them dominated, then we ask for more, but it is that, frankly, I do not finish this by being very clear. And also, why do they want these skills? , to oppose, for example, the extension of the airport, which is an essential extension? Because, well, now we are with the situation of the covid and, obviously, this has affected flights, but the capacity of the airport is at the limit, and I think it is an infrastructure that is essential and that we need it, therefore, to attract more investments, for the internalization of the economy, for the fairs and congresses that are held in Catalonia – especially in Barcelona – for tourism, for those cruises that the lords of the commons interpret as a plague, but that are necessary. I believe it is a new opportunity that allows Barcelona to be boosted and that allows the rest of Catalonia to be boosted, from an economic point of view. So, what do you want those skills for? For that? You spend your life here crying and complaining about the lack of investment on the part of the State and when, finally, the State wants to invest, then do you not like it? I really don't understand things. Mr Puigneró said no: you want that international hub and it seems good to me, but let's not put sticks on wheels, let's not put obstacles. When, at last, we want to invest in an infrastructure, I insist, which is fundamental to Catalonia's economy, because at least we feel we are listening and we do not oppose this issue. More things: for example, there has also been talk of the fourth belt of the B-40, which also has not known how much time stuck, some sections yes, others sections no. There is no consensus in the territory and surely, therefore, if we talk to Sabadell or Terrassa, they will think something different. Let's see if we can find this consensus. And I'm running out of time. As I say to you, all the issues that are related to improving public transport mobility and to curbing climate change, there, of course, we will vote yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.207.0	To pronounce on the papers, has the word Lord David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.208.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, give thanks to the groups that have proposed papers and that we have been able to reach agreements. Four very brief points: look, Mrs Roldán, in the end, we are a different party from the Socialist Party, I did not change the party. If you wanted to bet for Prat Airport, then probably it would be the PSC, Ciutadans or PP – I guess sometimes you don't know if you're at the front row or the back row. Then, in any case, I think that here there is one thing we also need to know: when we also talk about reducing flights, you also have to see, I was commenting..., that is to say, the majority..., for example, if we want to eliminate flights between Barcelona and Barajas, between Prat Airport and Barajas, which has all the sense of the world to eliminate them, Barcelona needs international flights; probably more than you have now, because the majority of flights between Barcelona and Madrid are for international connections and these flights are to be eliminated, as they are to eliminate flights from Valencia, as they are to eliminate flights with Lió. This means that we probably have to grow up on international flights, a few, but we have to decrease in the majority of flights that the Prat Airport has today, which are basically low-cost. And that's what we're setting up, and that's what we're betting for; this bet, clearly, at the rail level. I, Mr Terrades, look, it's that you can get international flights and you can improve the operation at Prat Airport. Of course, there's something you want, it's not to prune Ricardo. The problem is that Ricardo doesn't care, but it doesn't care because, surely, it has an incalculable value, but because it's not charged. If we could figure out what Ricardo's supposed to destroy, we could talk about it. Do you know what's going on? , if we change the operation of the tracks it can increase the number of international flights to the Airport of Prat. Clearly, they have to go through Gavà Mar's envelope. Clearly, therefore, you explain who you are defending, who are the people of Gavà Mar's pasta to trinxar the Ricardo. [[Mònica Sales de la Cruz asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.209.0	Yes, Mrs. Sales?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.210.0	Yes, President. In order to ask for separate votes on points 2 and 3, we shall have to vote separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.211.0	Two and three.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.212.0	Yes, thank you. [[Alice Romero Llano asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.213.0	Yes, ma'am Romero?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.214.0	We would ask for a separate vote on point 1, 3a and all 5, including the points on 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.215.0	Perfect. (Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.) Mrs. Roldán?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.216.0	Yes, President. Also to ask for a separate vote, maybe someone repeats, but, look, set the 1, 2, 3 and the statement of point 5, for one band, only the statement, and, for another band, it would be 2a and 5.d. [[Ignacio Martín Blanco and Joan Garriga Doménech ask to speak. The president laughs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.217.0	Mr. Martin White and then Mr. Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.218.0	President, in case there is any left, our proposal is 1, the cap of 2, 3, the cap of 5, and this could be voted in block, and then another block, with 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.219.0	Mr. Garriga. Now we look at the blocks, when everyone has expressed their will.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.220.0	To ask for the separate vote from points 6, 7 and 8, but I think the company has already said so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.221.0	6, 7 and 8. (Montserrat Vinyets Pagès asks to speak.) Mrs. Vinyets?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.222.0	To ask for a separate vote of 2 bis, 5.b, c, d; 6.d, 7, and is already there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.223.0	All right. Therefore, they have not been affected... (David Cid Colomer asks to speak.) Still more? (Pause.) Mr. Cid, you're making him complete.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.224.0	No, no; I was not to ask for separate vote, but to ask, before the vote, the reading of point 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.225.0	Reading point 2. [[Pause.]] Perfect. Any other separate votes more? Don't you? [[Pause.]] Therefore, we will vote separately on point 1, point 2, point 3 and points 5, 6.d, 7 and 8. Yeah? Is that correct, back off all the...? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, the 3a, the 5, 5.b, 5.c, 5.d statement. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The whole two? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, two bis. Perfect. All right. So, they're sentient... [[Seeing the background and taking a long break.]] Let's start the vote. Let's start with point number one. The vote begins. Point 1 was approved by 81 votes to 53. Now we're voting point two. And they asked for the reading... – I'm sorry –, the reading of the point was asked beforehand. I pray to the secretary first...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.226.0	"It manifests its opposition to the proposal of AENA to extend the third runway of the airport Josep Tarradellas Barcelona - el Prat, as well as its compromise with the preservation of the conjunction of the protected natural space of the delta of Llobregat and in particular of the Partial Natural Reserve of Ricardo - Ca l'Arana.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.227.0	Thank you. So now we proceed to the vote on this point 2. The vote begins. Point 2 was not approved, there were 15 votes in favour, 83 against and 34 abstentions. Now we're going to vote on the 2a point. The vote begins. Point 2a was approved by 111 votes to 20, with 3 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number three. The vote begins. Point 3 was not approved, there were 49 votes in favour, 53 against and 32 abstentions. Next, we vote on the 3a. The vote begins. Point 3a was approved with 84 votes in favour, 17 against and 33 abstentions. We're voting now for the announcement of point 5. The vote begins. Point 5, with the statement, resulted in 81 votes in favour, 53 votes against. We're voting now on point 5.b. The vote begins. This point was approved with 81 votes in favour and 53 votes against. We're voting now on point 5.c. The vote begins. This point was approved with 81 votes in favour and 52 votes against. We're voting now for point 5.d. The vote begins. This point was approved with 111 votes in favour, 11 against and 12 abstentions. We're voting now on point 6.d. The vote begins. This point was approved with 125 votes in favour and 9 abstentions. We're voting point seven now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 108 votes in favour and 26 abstentions. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 117 votes in favour and 17 abstentions. And we will now vote on the remaining points: point 4, point 6.a, b and c and point 9. The vote begins. The remainder of this motion was approved with 123 votes in favour and 11 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into energy policies]] [[302-00015/13]] Let's get to the twenty-two point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on energy policies, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle to Win. To expose it, has the word deputy and secretary Mr Pau Juvillà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.228.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. The reason we are carrying today is the consequence of the government's energy policy inquiry that we did 15 days ago, and in this inquiry, the CUP - A New Cycle for Winning we exhausted the basic energy lines to ensure that electricity is a guaranteed basic right. A will that follows a basic right guarantees that it undoubtedly passes through the creation of a public energy. So, the reason we are presenting today is in this very sense, in the creation of this Catalan public energy company with democratic, transparent and shared governance, from renewable energy sources, which has public control over the entire cycle of energy production: generation, transport, distribution and marketing. A company with national planning and participation in the municipality, which responds to the energy model we want for our country, a model of energy transition that is more just and more sustainable; a model that must be decentralized, renewable, self-sufficient and free of nuclear power. The nuclear-free ones. Is it necessary, then, this public energy? Yes, absolutely. Actually, it's urgent. The energy poverty affects, according to the behind questions, the behind data, approximately a deu_per_cent of the principality's population. But if we were left with this given, only with this deu_per_cent, we wouldn't see the conjunction..., we wouldn't see the forest, we'd have the trees. We would no longer take into account another deu_per_cent that, according to the Institute of Statistics of the Generality, corresponds to 19,5_per_cent of the risk rate of the poor to our country, Catalans and Catalans who have to decide whether to pay the light, pay the mortgage or pay the food or pay the money. Therefore, only with the deu_per_cent of the poor energy would we be short and stop seeing the forest, which is this almost twenty per_cent of Catalans and Catalans who are at risk of poverty. This, this risk of poverty, while, as we said the other..., as we repeated fifteen days ago, the companies of the electric oligopolies earn hundreds of millions of euros during the pandemic– 1,394_million euros of net benefit was done Endesa 2020 and 3,610, Iberdrola, just to set an example. While, also, last week's dissipation was..., it beat the light price record on a dissabate, according to the Operator of the Iberian Electricity Market. And it also seems that this week is going to break a new memory in the price of energy, isn't it? A memory, these prices of the light, that begins to be no longer an exceptionality to become a daily routine, and that therefore supposes a more grain of sorra, a more grain of sand in the precariousness of the life of Catalans and Catalans. Therefore – therefore – it is urgent to create this public energy that guarantees electricity as a basic right, as a guarantee of universality – rights and justice before work. Can they do it? Is it possible to make this energy? So yes, sense doubt. We have the tools, we only have the will and the political agreement. It may be recalled, for example, that approximately the noranta_per_cent of hydropower plants have the concession expired. We can begin to recover them all and in all the shells. We start, for example, for Can Trinxet, to Sant Quirze de Besora, linking him with a fight that carries and a job that brings people from there to try to recover this hydroelectric power plant. Let's also continue with the people of the Fosca Valley, who have been fighting Endesa for years, and we can also continue with the people of the Garonne, in the Aran Valley. The deputy Serret defended, in the later Climate Action Commission, the willingness to recover the management and ownership of hydroelectric power plants. Som-hi – som-hi – we amplify it also with solar energy, with wind energy, and we set ourselves up there, because it is essential to advance in the recognition of energy as a basic right for a dignified life and in the development of measures that guarantee its access in a universal way. Of course, this public energy is a good step. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.229.0	Next, he has the word to defend the papers presented, the deputy of En Comú Pomem, Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.230.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, I think it's obvious that we in Catalonia have lost the last decade in energy transition. In Catalonia two years ago, renewable energies were not practically installed, and we lost the last two years. The problem is that when an impact is accumulated, as with the climate change, the last two years are the two most important years of history, because each time by inaction, by omission, we follow without legislation in favor of the ecological transition of our economy we condition more and more generations. And, therefore, we have not lost two more years, but we have lost the most important years of the fight against climate change in our country. And we are here in the year 2021, without deploying the law of climate change, without an energy transition law that rules and plans the right to sustainable energy in our country, without a public enterprise, as proposed today by the Candidature of Popular Unity, which builds the right to access renewable energy in our country and without a law of residue that you do to all of us have taught at the schools, which is first reduced, then reuses and then recycles. And we follow, therefore, while in this Parliament we are discussing energy transition, we are following a model of urban planning within the country's communities that continues to thank the margins of our country's agricultural, forestry and rural areas; we are continuing to debate and plan obsolete infrastructure that does not fit with the sustainable future model we want, and we are still not providing solutions for the social majority, which is right for public institutions to guarantee social cohesion in an energy transition that will take or take place. We have said this once: we believe that there is a perverse space for politics that implies that it is easy to make opposition to Diaz Ayuso, and say: "Oh, five deliris lock central Madrid! What a delusion! But there are forces to the Government of Catalonia that are opposing the superilies, the door-to-door gathering, that want to build Las Vegas in agriculture and forestry alone in our country, and do not feel reflected in the caricature of Díaz Ayuso. And the truth is, we think they're self-deceived and that it would be hot to look at the lookout. Or the last one by President Sánchez to say: "Well, yes, vote on a debate on food, but well, I need to eat a steak. Clearly, it is good to eat a steak, but it is that the majority of this country is debated between eating low quality meat or not eating it, and therefore the right to a sustainable diet must also be a right city for the majority. And the question we have to ask ourselves. We have debated this year about the superlities, now we are debating the airport, we have discussed central Madrid, but who has followed the debate that the Government of the Government of Catalonia has promoted in the last years in the field of economic transition? It is that in this Parliament of the only one we are debating is about the government's failings or what it would be good for us to do, because there is no administration that public political leaders, and I believe that this places us in the worst political scene, that it is to make the energy transition a purely sterile and purely propaganda and self-conforting debate. By 2020, the year before, Catalonia had committed itself to making the twenty per cent of the energy produced by renewable sources. At the pace we're going, we'll complete 2098, which we committed ourselves to for the past year. And it is obvious, and that is why we support the proposal of the People's Unity Candidature, that we need public enterprises that lead and build energy transition to our country; that guarantee the right to public participation, citizen participation and territorial equity during the energy transition process; that guarantee access to a secure energy sub-administration for all citizens, also for those who cannot afford the return of the light, and that therefore give public guarantees in two axes. In which Catalonia will complete and assume as a country the commitments and objectives in the matter of renewable energy and emission reduction, and that these objectives will be content to guarantee to all citizens, to whom it has a habitat, but also to whom it has a pepper, its right to a secure access to energy. And, therefore, what we are asking of the Council and the whole Parliament is that this is a legislature in which we reactivate, in which we act, by the way, the debate and the construction of public alternatives to energy transition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.231.0	Thank you very much. And then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units to Advance, the deputy Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.232.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, we will vote in favour of the creation of a public energy company. In fact, fifteen days ago, at the instigation of a motion presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, he also voted on this issue, didn't he? This question was voted on. Now, we believe that turning the Icaen into an energy agency and, more importantly, creating a public company that can manage those hydroelectric concessions that are going to end, right? , your concessional period– I want to remind you that approximately a doze_percent of the renewable energy that is produced in our country from the hydro-electric jumps–, and, of those who end the concession, we could operate around the half of this production, more or less, huh? Now, let's tell you, this can't be the alibi to stop our country's renewable energies. We are not, I have already made it clear in the question that I asked the Councillor, in the conversations that we have had, in the very motion that we presented, my parliamentary group will not be an active part of the future, because the future will be renewable, we want it or we do not want it. And we have to face up to... the challenge we have is capital, right? , and we will need great efforts; efforts by the public sector and efforts by the private sector as well. We do not demonize the private sector because it is the private sector. In any case, the public administration, through the laws, must control the private sector, and also the energy sector. And we will have to explain the truths in this Parliament, because it is very good to make speeches, speeches that are politically correct, but you will have to recognize me, Mr. Deputy, and I also tell the Councillor, that I have it here, that with 64_million_i_mig, that it is the last liquidated assumption of the Government of the Government of Catalonia in energy matters, I tell you that we will not make the energy transition to our country. And so I'm already telling you that if we're going to address all the energy and transition issues, which are two different concepts, or we're going to align the same direction with the same public and private sectors, like the country, we won't get out of it. And, therefore, we are an active part in claiming – doing things well, yes – but in claiming that in Catalonia, if they want to shut down the three nuclear reactors, year 35 the past, means that in order to replace these 3,200 megawatts that at these times we have nuclear power installations in Catalonia, it will be necessary, not to supply them with the same quantity for renewable energies, much more. And we have to start teaching at the country's side. To the great cities, also to the area... is to say, to the urban areas and to the non-urban areas of the country in which to address this transition, and this will involve putting renewables and photovoltaics to the teulades of our country, all the way. But even though we were able to put photovoltaics on all the teulades in our country, we would only be able to do so – experts say, all experts – to guarantee the demand for approximately one quarter, right? , of the needy the country has, the families and the businesses. And so, what can't be is this room... well, everybody can do whatever they want, right? But they cannot be active actors in the nimbus plataforms that arise in our country. I agree that we have to do things differently. Now, that we need to deploy over the territory, to the great cities, but also to the rural areas of the country, photovoltaic and wind energy, we must begin to explain it. If not, it will be impossible to tackle the energy transition with the country, and we will have to import the energy that will be renewable from southern France or other territories of the Spanish State.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.233.0	On behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Antonio Ramón López has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.234.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members, VOX has a strategic plan in the face of the environmental situation based on conservationism, which consists of respect for the natural environment of which we do not own, but mere administrators, and as such forced to take care of, protect and enrich it. In VOX, we will not participate in the policies of apocalyptic climate change, which only seeks to end the prosperity and freedom of the middle classes, which entails a waste of public spending and, of course, more chiringuitos. The consequences of these green policies have been suffered by citizens by dismantling our productive economy. Ladies and gentlemen, our position has nothing to do with an opposition to renewable energies, so they have come to stay. We are in favour of a balanced and progressive transition. Of course we have to emit less CO2, but not on the basis of ending our economy, our industry and the freedoms of all citizens. We cannot but say that the West is not responsible for the increase in CO2 globally, and in particular Spain, which emits less than one per cent of emissions across the planet. We are subjecting our economic growth to the green agenda. And with this policy we put our industry in a weak and less competitive opposition. The hysterical environmental rhythm that is being promoted from Catalonia has very high social costs. In addition, the energy proposal suffers from social and economic sustainability and does not take into account the economically negative impact on industry and individuals. We ask for sanity, balance and, as I said in the committee, reduce, stop, put the GPS, look where they go, but don't go up so many marches, that citizens don't have to pay for their ecological delusions and chiringuitos. Ladies and gentlemen, do you want VOX to be with you? [[Widow's remorse.]] They present a project to keep the nuclear power plants, which will not waste the public money of the Spaniards or the European funds on green projects of dubious environmental and economic efficiency, that will end their confiscation policy with the excuse echo, effective energy policies to reduce the price of energy to our companies and citizens, to be able to investigate new oil or gas explorations in our territory, to consult the mayors and the territory before packing them with plates and mills. From VOX we are committed to the environment, but not at any price. And since we do not share the political principles that underpin it, we will vote against it. Finally, during the interventions of the eleven VOX I have seen that you are not very attentive. I hope they are now. Just a few weeks ago the Third Sector Bureau published that in Catalonia there are 944,000 people in severe poverty: 944,000. Meanwhile, you continue with your taxes, your chiringuitos and your ideological delusions. That is so, by the hand of the puppets of the PSC, who are able to betray the dignity of all Spaniards, kneeling before the thugs, thugs and criminals. [[Widow's remorse.]] VOX is here to defend the freedom, dignity and unity of all Spaniards against their rupturistic and totalitarian project. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.235.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the honourable Member Marina Bravo has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.236.0	Thank you, President. Well, I think the gentlemen of the UPC already know that it is difficult for us to find ourselves in the defense of the role that private companies have to play in our society. For you, private companies are little less than Satan, and for us, the private sector, is the driving force of economic development and deserves our full attention. And I also say 'because obviously the public sector is fundamental, as we are also seeing with this pandemic, and it is especially key in everything related to the state of well-being. But without entrepreneurship, without the flexibility or the risk sometimes faced by the private sector, often these three issues far beyond the reach of the public sector, development slows down, and if development slows down, so too are the opportunities for each of us to be able to develop their life plan with equal opportunities. But it is also that the proposal they bring here today, to set up a public electricity company, all it does is to divert the issue on the problem that seems to worry them, or at least that seemed to be the intervention, which is the final price we pay for energy. And it is even more absurd that they propose this solution to act on that final price when this proposal to create a public energy company, therefore, arises in an autonomous community, when they well know how the energy market works in Spain. They're diverting the shot. You also know that the cost of electricity depends not on the first energy that is produced, not on the first energy that we take to serve citizens, but on the last technology that enters the system, right? The more demand increases, then, we have to take different ways of producing energy and the price is fixed by the last energy that enters the system. The cost of this last energy, which is usually combined cycle, is the one that has been fired. That's the cost that's been fired. The reason for the increase in cost is related to two main factors: one, the price of gas, which has increased mainly due to external factors and increased demand from Asian countries, and the other is due to the cost of CO2 emissions allowances. That is to say, the increase in the cost of electricity has occurred either for reasons which are outside our territory, which are not in our hands, or for strictly regulatory reasons. A public enterprise such as the one they raise here would not be able to solve any of these problems. Firstly, because it could neither act on the price of gas nor act on the price of emissions. But that, based on the fact that it was a company that produced non-renewable energy. What we are proposing here is a company that produces renewable energy, which is not going to be the one that sets the final cost of energy. The solution must be based on comprehensive, technically contrasted and common sense proposals to bridge the real players involved in the sector. We bet, with or without a public company, not to blame the price of energy, so neither Tesla nor Endesa nor anyone like it, that in the end, then, are companies that play with the rules of the game that we ourselves have provided them. We believe that a comprehensive reform of energy taxation is necessary, as we have proposed in the Congress of Deputies many times and as it has recognized even the president of the CNMC itself. That, and also increase, of course, the renewable energy park. That will enable us to have greater availability of renewable energy, not that which is now in private hands, to go to public enterprises, but to have a greater power of renewable energy. And in that, here in Catalonia, of course in proportion to GDP we are very late, and from what we have been able to hear in these first few weeks, we will see if I am wrong, it seems that the legislature because we will end it the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.237.0	Next, and on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.238.0	Yes, thank you, President. We are going to vote in its entirety on the content of this motion, which apart from the CUP..., already commented earlier on by Mr Terradas that in the previous plenary we also had the opportunity to talk about this subject, following one of a motion by his group, in which we did have points on which we voted favourably, but that was one thing and that of today is another. Because you here, therefore, under the pretext of setting up a public energy company, what you are hiding is the will to nationalise the energy supply, which is precisely the opposite of what Spain's incorporation into the European Union meant. Because at that time the energy market had to be liberalised, which is certainly an improvementable process, but which is irreversible in countries with advanced Western democracies. That I already know it's not where you look; it's not in advanced Western democracies, we already know. We agree that the energy supply has to be a public service, of course, and as such there must be and there is the ability to decide which sources of energy are. Now, another thing is that the provision has to be public, and this would obviously involve numerous inconveniences. The first of these, and I think it is the most obvious of all, is the investment that should be made that would therefore lead to diverting resources for the construction of energy infrastructures. As I said before, I believe that, without any doubt, modern democracies are betting on private provision of public services, such as the most efficient system for achieving the universality of service. This model that you propose to us here today with this motion, because I believe it is more typical of countries like Venezuela [[Funnel veils]] , not from countries of the European Union, which I already know is that you do not like that, but we do, and as we do, and we are in favour of progress and democracy, as it cannot be otherwise, because of course we are going to vote no. I've also heard about this, I think he was the deputy... Well, I don't think so, I'm convinced that he was the deputy Lucas Ferro, who spoke and quoted those people who, unfortunately, can't pay, don't get to pay the bill for the light, which seemed like the motion was going to that, but no. Man, we go back a little bit to the incoherence that I accused you of in the previous motion, it's that, of course, you're ruling! It is that you have imposed a tariff on the receipt of light that there is no one who supports it. So, I don't know if it's incoherence or cynicism – or it's cynicism – anymore, because I want to remember here, for example, statements by Mr. Pedro Sánchez in 2015 that said to us: "The electricity bill has increased by 13_per_cent. Rajoy is very expensive to the Spaniards. Well, Sanchez doesn't come out very expensive. In January 17 Paul Iglesias said: "It is a shame that the electricians continue to put their hands in the pocket of the citizens. It is a shame that in this country the bill for light rises the coldest day it makes and that the government tells us that the problem is wind or meteorology. It is a shame that the government does not intervene, because this does much harm to the citizens of our country, to people who suffer from energy poverty. That looked like Mr. Iglesias in 2017. To Mrs Montero, also in the 17th: "It can not happen that there are families that are putting the heating to hours or looking in I don't know where to see what is the most important time to put the washing machine so that the price is cheaper. We have all of Spain putting washing machines and ironing the weekend. So, what can't be is that when you were in the opposition, this was a shame and when you are in the government, this has already stopped being a shame and absolutely nothing happens. But that's right, then we come here to worry about people who don't get to the end of the month and who can't pay for the receipt of the light. A little coherence and a little less cynicism, because I honestly believe that everyone remembers Mr. Iglesias megaphone in hand. Therefore, let us be serious about this issue and what they have to do is lower the bill of light and, above all, do not deceive us. Above all, don't cheat on us. Because also a few days ago Mrs Montero told us that Brussels did not let down the VAT of light, as happened with the masks, remember? , that first it was that no and then it was that yes and now with the light it has been that no and now it turns out that it is that yes. That I believe you have learned this very well from your partners, the nationalists, who always blame Spain and now you blame Brussels, right? It's like the blame to Spain, evolved; the separatist mantra. Of course the mantras, you learn them very quickly. Yesterday, new maximum light rate. This is intolerable and unsustainable. There are a lot of Spaniards who are really going through calamities and, therefore, I insist, less cynicism exercises and more putting us to work for what you asked when you were in opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.239.0	Thank you very much. Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mr Joaquim Calatayud.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.240.0	President, councillor, very late everyone. At home they taught me that when you go for the first time in a place you have to introduce yourself. I am mayor of the Borges del Camp, a village of the Lower Camp and, for a few days, president of the County Council of the Lower Camp, some institutions that we incomprehensiblely talk about very little, but that, in general, the six hundred municipalities of less than two thousand inhabitants believe that it is a very important and very necessary institution for our territory. In any case, the CUP Group presents this motion to us to urge the Government to create a public energy, based on renewable energies, to manage hydropower plants, to participate in new generation plants, to be the owner of distribution networks and to have a marketer, that is, to create a public company that intervenes throughout the generation process, distribution and commercialization of electricity in Catalonia. Electricity is a first-requirement asset and, as such, we need to treat it and take into account when it comes to any regulation affecting its generation, distribution and marketing process. Therefore, on the basis of this, the position of the group of Juntes is positive for the movement, if we understand its philosophy as the willingness to participate in a sector of a product of primary need for people and for our economy, such as electricity, so that we stop producing a situation of abuses that we have all denounced. It is clear that the complexity of the electricity sector from generation to distribution and marketing of energy can make it difficult for a public energy company to face all the challenges and changes that this sector needs, to be more close to the people and businesses of this country and not so close to the big corporations, most of which are owned by the sector. Unfortunately, the vast majority of the population has this feeling, that there has been an abuse and that the electricity trade only benefits a few to the detriment of the majority. For another band, the fact is that it will not be easy or quick to give up electricity produced with fossil material or nuclear energy. But it's obvious that renewable energies make a lot of opportunities to do things in another way. It does not now discuss all the difficulties that an initiative of these characteristics will have to overcome, because what is really important is that there is a willingness on the part of this government to do things in another way, because the electricity sector is a more transparent, more accessible and understanding sector, more democratic and is based mostly or totally on renewable energy, in a generation distributed throughout the territory, in a way that is appropriate to the energy needs of each territory. But since Junts, we don't want to cheat either. We are clear that the energy sector is regulated by the State. We are clear about the competitive limitations we have on all levels. We make it clear that distribution is a natural market and we make it clear that, from transport, only one twenty-five percent is public. We do not end up creating a marketer, who, therefore, the private always knows more. The challenge is capital, but now we have a great opportunity; the opportunity that gives us the power of renewable energies to fight against climate change. That is why, despite the fact that our position is favourable, we do want to ask the CUP group to assume that the public energy proposal is an inconcrete mass and that it needs to land in the reality in which we find ourselves, because it can become a truly transformative, coherent and viable proposal. And finally, we do not make the mistake of demonizing the private sector that participates in the public sector. We have examples of this good work from all over the country, as we have examples of public enterprises that are a real disaster. Barcelona Energia is a clear example of how we can end up, if we don't do things minimally well, because, as in all life and in politics, not everything is white or everything is black. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.241.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Antoni Flores.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.242.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor, deputies and deputies. It looks like today's a day of premieres in Faristol. A lot of deputies and deputies have passed; I'm also opening up today and it's a great honor to be able to do it. The debate of the energy model for many reasons is clear that it is one of the debates of the early start of the legislature. We haven't spoken in the past, she talked about it at her appearance at the Climate Action Commission, Councillor Jordan, and today we find ourselves with a strong case of the Popular Unity Candidacy on energy policies. From the start, we'll give you support. We will support it because we have come here to transform, and this means the transformation, too, of the country's energy model into the mark of the green revolution. The government has committed itself to it and we want to commit ourselves to it at the parliamentary level as well. And we are not just talking about changing the old energy model based on fossil and nuclear fuels into a renewable model, but we are also talking about everything that involves this change, everything that this green revolution entails. The economy of fossil and nuclear fuels directly obviated other alternatives, protected the great oligopolises and was a space suitable for famous revolving doors. I will only say quickly a few names of policies that have ended with burdens or to the board of directors of the main energy companies: José María Aznar, Felipe González, Elena Salgado, Miquel Roca, Narcís Serra, and, if we go further than that, Calvo Sotelo and Martín Villa, and could go by names until almost a hundred; some names and a list that give us clues why we have done so much and why it is so hard to make this revolution. We want, therefore, to change the energy model, also to change the economic model that forms part of the DNA of the Spanish State; to change it for a model with public and citizen governance, with participation of consumers and the territory. We all know that now the priority is the modification of the decree of renewables, and the councillor has already said that she wants to make it quick, approving it late, and that she wants to make it from the hands of the local world; now the priority is, therefore, to amend this decree, with three objectives: to ensure the participation of the territory in renewable projects, to avoid the concentration of equipment in the same area, that is, to ensure a balanced distribution, and to prevent the necessity and urgent energy transition involves the massive replacement of conreus camps for photovoltaic plates or wind generators. We cannot act in the face of the climate crisis at the same time as the primary sector and protected spaces. If you call us an energetic sobriety, you also call us a food sobriety. Nor can we fall back into the teranyin of energetic oligopolises. After this urgent change, of course, you bet with what we are defending today with this motion of creating a public energy of renewable sources will be perfectly another important and necessary challenge; it will serve to equip the country with a tool that drives models of green generation with participation of the Generality, of entities and of local enterprises, integrating together and incorporating the citizenry through energy communities, and will also serve for the recovery of hydro-electric concessions. Here I would like to make an incis, taking advantage of my..., which comes from the Pallars, because many together want to know what will happen to the taxes that will come when the concessions of hydroelectric needles come to an end. We are convinced that this future management with public and local participation will allow us to find compensation formulas in the line that we have always defended: if the territory contributes, the territory rep. Totally agree that this public energy can help strengthen joints in the public access service activity in the charging of electric vehicles. The joints have created infrastructure and a network of recharging points, but there will be good support for activity, maintenance, regulation and pricing. I'm done. All the support, therefore, for a strategic tool that will help the objective of the energy transition that will be driven from the government and we will demand from here, a renewable transition, self-sufficient, just, democratic, distributed generation, in territorial equilibrium and nuclear-free. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.243.0	And finally, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word the deputy Pau Juvillà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.244.0	Well, quickly, I have very little time. In the first place, give thanks to the company of the commons, who have presented this thought that we believe it deepens, deepens what must be democratic and shared management and, therefore, that we believe it enriches the final motion. So, thank you very much. To the lords of the PSC, yes, renewable; as you said, no? renewable. The motion does not only speak of the recovery of hydroelectric power plants, but also of wind and solar power. I, therefore, yes. To the lords of..., to the representatives of the Marquises, the Riches and the Lobbyes, we would like to answer to what you have said, but it gives us the feeling that in the end what you do is to take over, the Rincón del Vago, "Down speech, no? , i"where he puts me "school", put me "public energy", because they have talked a little bit about everything. I, therefore, say: "Poned me" public energy" and put me above all" chiringuitos", "liberticide"... – what else have they said? – "discourse"..., "delirium'indepe". And, therefore, I don't know what to say to you, because you talked about a lot of things that you have little to see with what we're talking to today. They're trying to focus a little, when I'm carrying the prepared speech. To the Lady of Citizens, very breument. Diu : « The rules of the game we have given ourselves. I believe that it is" that we have been given. And Mr. d'Esquerra explained a little who gave them to us. To the lady of the Grup Mixt, on the first question that ugly, the answer is yes. And about the second, which gave this mantra, didn't it? , of the axis of the evil you have at your head, so tell him that, for example, Israel has a public enterprise of one hundred_per_cent, that in Canada they have a public enterprise of one hundred_per_cent, that in France, Germany, Switzerland and Italy have enterprises participating for the State. It's got to extend a little bit of you to this axis of evil. But, finally, the most important thing is that with all the precautions and precautions... today, what we will approve today is an important step, a step that guarantees right to Catalans and Catalans. And, therefore, I think we should be happy. We did the easy part, now the hard part remains; the hard part is going there, going there and going there. And, Mrs. Jordan, we've got a lot of work to do; we're spavelling. [[Some applause. Pause. Alice Romero Llano asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.245.0	Yes, ma'am Romero?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.246.0	To ask for a separate vote on points 1.b, 1.d and 1.f.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.247.0	1.b, 1.d and 1.f. Any more petitions? Don't you? [[Pause.]] Perfect. So we'll vote first on these points and then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. We shall therefore vote in the first place... Yes, yes, yes; we will vote these points separately and after the rest of the motion together. We vote, therefore, in the first place, point 1.b. The vote begins. This point was approved with 79 votes in favour and 53 votes against. We're voting now for point 1.d. The vote begins. This point was approved with 80 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 33 abstentions. We're voting now for point 1.f. The vote begins. This point was approved with 79 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 33 abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The motion was adopted with 112 votes in favour and 20 votes against. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the need to reduce superfluous political spending]] [[302-00016/13]] Let's move on to the twenty-three and go back to the order of the day. That's also worth a round of applause, yes. [[The president laughs. Some applause.]] Following the question to the Government on the need to reduce the superfluous political expenditure presented by the VOX Parliamentary Group. In order to expose her, has the word Mrs María Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.248.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, for once, just once, to have the courage and courage to explain to the citizens why the priority for this Government is the deviations of separatist and progressive thinking and not the daily needs of the Catalan on foot. Orison Marden said the economy is sowing and saving, the harvest. You neither sow nor reap; it is more, yes you sow, but on weeds. And the truth is that it is growing nothing but division, confrontation, poverty and anguish. And, unfortunately, that's why you're going to go into history. For this reason, in the face of their government irresponsibility, we will remind them of the five axes of good governance and good public spending policy. One: austerity and efficiency in public spending, which allows for savings, maintaining the quality of public services. In other words, in the face of its expenditure on a feminist state and a rupturist agenda, we propose the prioritization and rationalization of expenditure, focusing on the vital and material deficiencies of the citizenry. Recently, investment in foreign political action has increased by an additional EUR 1 million, just at the time when part of its former government partners have been appointed by the Court of Auditors for embezzlement of EUR 5.4 million, all in charge of the welfare of citizens. Point 2: Permanent compliance with the budgetary stability that allows us not to continue to mortgage the future of our children or the well-being of our elderly. Of public debt interest we pay about 600_million_of_euro, since we record in absolute terms the largest amount of debt at the national level, with more than 80,000_million_of_euro, figure that you have just increased with the expansion of the budgets extended with money from the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, debt that you have to pay each Catalan and that you will have to pay our children and children's children every day of your life. Three: tax cuts. Melchor de Jovellanos said that every tax must come out of the superfluous and not the necessary. To this day, you have turned Catalonia into the worst fiscal hell, punishing Catalans with taxes that they pay with an indispensable capital to cover their basic needs; so much so that almost twenty_percent of families are willing to see themselves engaged in living from the assistanceism and charity of organizations, for the most part, belonging to the Church. How much do you think the stellation of that million children living in extreme poverty in Catalonia or their parents, who do not receive guaranteed income from citizenship, matters to you? Four: elimination of excessive regulation and ideological surveillance. Among its superfluous spending, I focus especially on all those chiringuitos, such as Platform for Language, Ómnium or the National Catalan Assembly, which are dedicated to the surveillance and regulatory inquisition and which aim to point out those companies that are not related to their unique thinking, putting obstacles to economic activity. Five: legal insecurity. Let us not forget that you have put legal certainty into check, which is necessary to give peace and confidence to investors, entrepreneurs and workers in Catalonia. You focus your public spending on dragging the population into the abyss that involves breaking with the state through separatist propaganda, watering media like La Vanguardia or TV3, and indoctrination in schools and universities. In short, given their waste and their prioritization of unnecessary expenditure against productive expenditure, it seems that they do not know the keys to good economic management, which, thanks to productive and responsible expenditure, creates the necessary conditions of credibility and solvency that attract investors and taxpayers. In other words, it is about giving priority to what citizens need, not what politicians need; it is about prioritizing what society needs, not what parties need; it is about focusing on making citizens' lives easier and better and not using electorally the wishes of a manipulative minority to make politics to a manipulated minority. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.249.0	Then, as long as no papers have been submitted, he has the word to fix his position Mr Jordi Riba, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.250.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, it's an easy recourse to the concept of superfluous spending; the right and the extreme right we get used to. In fact, is it a resource so easy that it can object to a concept as generic as this? However, after this concept, you do not forget that a gross manipulation between the meaning and the meaning of the word, since when they speak of "superfluous expenditure they do in reality..., to introduce strictly ideological criteria that have to do with a rationalizing will, purely neoliberal ideological criteria. Assenyalen, on the expository part of the intervention, in the previous question which they made in the previous plenary and in the statement which they made before, who are these expenses which you consider to be superfluous and which in any case we can share the consideration of these. I refer, for example, to questions that you allude to as historical memory, culture, feminist policies or policies in the matter of solidarity or cooperation. They cannot share these criteria. You, when you talk about superfluous expenses, are actually talking purely and simply about detail. If that wasn't enough, they're also talking – and with the previous intervention it's clear – about tax cuts. It is a clear and obvious evidence that you are actually talking and advocating a reduction in the public sector, a reduction in the public sector through the over-expenditure, in the effort of public institutions to develop policies in certain areas as I have already commented, and also in the state of welfare, of public services, through these policies of reducing temerarial taxes. Finally, the vision you have when you talk about social emergencies can't be shared either. It is clear that we need the resources we need to deal with these social emergencies, but our vision and our mission, of public servants, must go further than meeting emergencies and developing policies that address and combat the causes of these emergencies. We do not share this view – and, in fact, you in ugly are explicit – charitable and caring for public policies. Our vision is of structural policies that combat the root causes of these social emergencies that must be prevented and combated. This morning you were talking to us about professionalism, even in the motions. In any case, I will not go into hyperadjectivation to what you have us accustomed to, but I will certainly tell you that, in any case, this young man suffers absolutely from any kind of rigour for what he does to rationalization. You don't introduce concepts such as introducing zero-based pressure mechanisms, reordering or rationalizing of the Generality's bodies, but only laying down the suppression of some, according to their criteria, their daughters, their phobias and their aversions. They also do so in the same way in relation to grants, setting out areas such as solidarity or cooperation. Or when they speak, in the motion, of the loguers, they indicate the problem, but they do not pose in absolute solution or proposed to deal with this situation. They speak, as I said, of 'austerity and superfluous expenditure, of 'expenditure, but in reality they speak of retailing, retailing so discreetly ideologically as some of the programs that you denounce. They are at the same level of ideological biaix, moguts, as I say, for their political aversions and not for a reality or for a real will aimed at a will to rationalise public spending. We do not share, as I said, the vision of fiscal policy: taxes must not be there, they must be fair, the necessary ones, tax efficiency must be sought, and according to the Constitution and the general tax law must have the principles..., they must preside over the principles of equality and generality. It is true that there are territorial differences at the level of Spain between territories, but the solution cannot be the one you are planting: a race to the bottom of these taxes, the consequence of which is nothing other than the progressive and inexorable unpacking of public services, as we have seen in recent years, which shows the system's weaknesses at the time of facing issues such as the health crisis we have experienced. And to put it: the euro area medium in fiscal pressure is at 41.6; the Spanish medium, according to Eurostat data for 2019, is 35.4. In front of this list we have countries with France, Germany, Denmark, Belgium. Therefore, we believe that we must move towards fiscal convergence at the level of Spain, also at the level of Europe. Throughout the presentation, the position of our group will be countered to this motion. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.251.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.252.0	Thank you, President. Well, we're in front of a young lady who's a little bit like that song We're gonna tell lies, right? , and builds a full _frame of lies, one behind the other. In fact, his whole political program is a lie; in fact, his economic program, or like the dress of a populist speech. A quick respite for your economic program is enough to find an amalgam of neo-liberal mantras with a clear class bias to the u percent service, not those popular classes that you claim to represent– the u percent service's economic program. Because, as I said, while maintaining this populism of small business, typical of the "American neocons– this" Spain that raises the blind–, its economic measures are more oriented towards benefiting large enterprises and large fortunes on the basis of fiscal devaluation, liberalisation and privatization of public sectors and a deepening of the return to work. Just as an example, his proposal for reform of the IRPF: dos tipus. Someone could say, "No, let's reform the IRPF because you say, don't you? – « the working class supported the major pes. But his proposal causes the working class to support the majority of the pes, that is to say, to the contrary of what should be going on with a progressive reform of the IRPF. What you're causing is that you have a middle income of just over thirty thousand euros a year..., if this is not working class taking into account that the middle income..., or that they declare each year to the tax agency more than sixty thousand euros the year of entrances is four percent of the population. So, therefore, the people who have a midwife or who enter, or continue, thirty_ thousand euros a year would bear the greatest fiscal effort. In fact, its reform of the IRPF would result in those persons who collect work income that do not exceed 14_000 euros per year, who are now exempt from taxation, being required to pay between 1,400 and 1,500_ euros per year. This is his proposal for the working class of this country, of course. Besides, you propose that the VAT, the reduction, increases, so that the one you do, right? It's to benefit the great fortunes, actually, isn't it? With this mantra of distortion, to distort economic activity less, what they cause is that the transfer of capital from the popular classes to the great fortunes is greater. Therefore, pure and harsh neoliberalism, politics and the party of the Marquises and the Riches of the State. Their patriotic, in fact, strong, protective and protectionist states are seen as absolutely false before the evidence that without resources it is obvious that public services do not exist, and therefore the state cannot protect its citizens. So, it's a joke of bad taste, not to mention a lie. Because when his economic project is analyzed, as I said, it is a neoliberal acceleration of the proposals of the People's Party and of Ciutadans, in which, in fact, you are inconceivable, right? , a millionaire country project at the cost of millions of poor underprivileged in the exercise of power will rise from the markets. But to make up your proposals, then what they do... , have these economic proposals, decide to make them up for the service of the multinationals and the multimillionaires, and then exclaim, with their particular cultural wars, seeking migrants, feminists, independenceists as scapegoats to store what you really pursue. I would tell you that, since they are pursuing so much what solidarity is, they think about solidarity, because it is a job answer for dignity, right? More than twenty-five years ago the Catalan society was mobilized for dignity; it mobilized twenty-five years ago—more than twenty-five years—for 0.7, and it continues to do so. Because dignity is a property that has communicating vessels and because fighting for the dignity of others always makes us more worthy of ourselves. And finally, if you're so concerned about public bodies, if you're so concerned about drastically reducing superfluous spending, it's very simple, a suggestion: to overthrow the monarchy, more than 8_million euros in the year in the State, to overthrow the monarchy; once for all to pursue the corrupt monarchy and the larval bourbons. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.253.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.254.0	Mythomania is the psychological disorder of lying pathologically and continuing to falsify reality and make it more bearable. I am a problem from a democratic perspective, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, not for your acronyms but for the political positions you defend and the level of mitomania you reach. We could, in fact, incorporate a phrase that says: "You are more false than VOX worrying about the working class. They make a little respite of the issues that seem to worry you about the welfare of the citizenry – which, it must be said, is only a part of the citizenry, as the CUP campaign calls for –..., for example, when you talk about taxation: elimination of the inheritance tax, that you really want to prevent any kind of redistribution and this crisis from occurring for the first time..., have some sort of social justice criteria that can guarantee the social rights of all the inhabitants. Because that's really what worries you guys. It seems unacceptable to you that there is a possibility that I will allow this distribution. But this, once in a while, this supposed concern, comes into conflict when the Congress of Deputies was discussing the vital minimum ingredient and you spoke of it as a 'pay-a-go'. So we stayed here, that concern? About relating taxation to a supposed..., facilitating or assuming the right to housing, but this morning you made it clear to us that you're on the side of the big reversal. We were left with this concern for VOX when BlackRock and Cerberus were crossing borders to buy sentient barrels from Barcelona, like Ciutat Vella, and which cause hundreds of denunciations today? But, well, giving you this benefit of the doubt, this concern that you have is so great that perhaps for this reason Mrs. Rocío Monastery has dedicated itself to sign plans without being an architect and gave more than thirteen floors without a habitable cell. Talk about the "historical memory, in fact, that is also a quite misogynistic term, very much in your line. Historical memory and democracy, above all it is necessary to not make the same mistakes of the past, but perhaps, for your Franco past, it does not suit you that you have recovered this memory. « Unusual cooperation. There was talk of solidarity; I went a little further and spoke of co-responsibility. The colonial relations that Europe has had and the global north of the police of resources, of violation also of human rights, must, precisely, be repaired with policies of critical and co-responsible solidarity. But this is clearly what the line is and what your external action is, isn't it? When, for example, you've heard of young women and men – also young men – who are feeling murder in Colombia..., and who, by the way, are still feeling it today. And here I do the incis, a little parenthesis, which, by my position, so much insisting on this subject: Colombia continues to have a national unemployment, continues to have police brutality, continues to have totally unpunished assassinations, because, precisely, the extreme right..., and here we are talking about a system that is perfectly connected to the world level, and that ladies and gentlemen like VOX want to be flagged. So I place the parliamentary forces of this Parliament, precisely, to work to pressure, and to repair, and to observe carefully and to make effective policies, not only condemning violence, but in concrete questions that are materializing in this situation that we are living in countries like Colombia. So in cases such as Colombia or Xile, the VOX lords were here with the heretics of Álvaro Uribe Velez and Pinochet. Or they talk of salutation, but when Bolsonaro laughed at the death of millions of Brazilians for their denialist and genocidal politics, here was VOX thank them. I will tell you, with all the serenity and with all the strength, that all that you want to be these great banners – because you love the flags, more so – of this extreme right fully articulated at the outside level, you will not get it, because there will be millions of women and men who will prevent it here and everywhere. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.255.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.256.0	Yes, thank you, President. Members, Members, Mrs García. You raise here an issue that, in fact, tomorrow, which fifteen years ago Ciutadans was born, just tomorrow, we were already raising at the time, which is the democratic regeneration and, precisely, the measures of regeneration and change, in many cases, of the administrative structures of what is currently being done and already done at the time in the Generalitat. It is true that we, Mrs García..., confess that we can observe the from different prisms, this reduction in superfluous spending. You have talked about... we are talking, in fact, about reducing fat and leaving the muscle of the Administration, and you have talked about those superfluous expenses, that you have to reduce them. You have also talked about taxes, of course, and social spending, but it can be done with different prisms. We have always said this from a liberal prism, as we have always argued. We are, in fact, in Europe and in different internationals, in different groups. We are in the group of Liberal Democrats; you are not, and it is clear that the vision, in this case, to try to make or make these kinds of changes is different. For us, the elimination of duplication is already a fact. In fact, the new government in Andalusia, in its time, reduced in six months eighty-two chiringuitos. I mean, those little bars we always talk about, they can be eliminated, and you can eliminate an expense that we think is superfluous, and the Andalusian administration works, and it's worked pretty well ever since. Which, it's feasible, it's possible, but... look, I think it's important to differentiate between the reduction of almost everything, right? , because you even talk about the health service, look, we're not in that, we believe there are a number of essential, social services, which – at least in the preamble as I have seen it – we can't reduce or consider superfluous spending. In the definition of superfluous expenditure is where the key to the vision or prism with which we want to make that exchange rate is. There has been talk here of rationalization. It may be a much more appropriate concept to what Ciutadans has always advocated, the rationalization of public spending that often involves eliminating, as you have already said, much of those chiringuitos that are being subsidized by the Government of the Generalitat. We also think that the social services and social expenditure to which these expenses have to be allocated, we already value them in the 2020 budgets in EUR 900_million, which we wanted to use and use for different purposes. Today we have talked, for example, this morning, about the housing emergency or the social emergency in housing, about those 1,000_million that are not destined every year. We have... doing a rational exercise, and I think it is well focused – and my colleague, José María Cano, who is ex-parliamentary, and his entire team last year – I think you can use that money, that 900_million_euros, for example, social spending or housing spending, right? That's what we've been defending on many occasions. But you, at the same time, in that last, let's say, way, talk about the drastic reduction of taxes. Look, in your motion, at the last point, in fact, of your motion, they are talking precisely about promoting legislative reforms that lead to a drastic tax reduction. We do not agree with the drastic concept. In other words, the state of well-being..., in the end public expenditure must be somehow financed and paid. What we do not agree is that we live with a fiscal pressure like the one we currently have in Catalonia. We have said that over and over again and we have to reduce it. But we don't think it has to be a drastic reduction. We're suspicious at that point. And we – to announce the vote to you – will abstain on that third point. In the first two points, which I can quickly read: "Identify and suppress all public bodies that involve administrative duplicity, of course, we are going to join – and I think we could join almost everyone, in this case – and" drastically reduce unnecessary political spending, etc., because I think we are going to join as well. We shall therefore vote in favour and abstain on the last point. Thank you, President, Members, Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.257.0	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.258.0	Thank you, President. I had a moment I had to look at the agenda because I didn't know if we were with this motion, that what you are asking is to cut the Generalitat's superfluous spending, or we were in another debate and I had lost myself. But no, it seems that we are on this motion and, well, I tell the gentlemen of VOX that they have not discovered anything new. We are of course going to vote that yes. Of course yes to reduce..., first enumerate and know exactly, therefore, what chiringuits, duplicities, etc., have mounted in the Generalitat, and suppress them. Of course we are going to vote yes, too, to reduce these superfluous political spending, and also to promote the legislative reforms that lead to this tax reduction. In fact, for us it is one of our pillars, of the People's Party program, which is to lower the tax burden to Catalans. That's the first thing. He told them that they have not discovered anything new because we have also been demanding for a long time that the Generalitat stop squandering the money of all Catalans on things that are not necessary and that also serve only their own benefit. They put here things that are interesting, the truth, even though we have already said them before, but it seems to me that it is okay to repeat the ones and to me..., if I may, I will read one of the paragraphs of the explanatory statement. It is as follows: « The President of the Generalitat of Catalonia receives 153,250 euros gross per year, almost twice as much as the President of the Government of Spain; the Catalan councillors enter 115,000 euros, and more than one hundred and eighty political positions of the Catalan Government enter more than 84,000 euros per year. This must be the famous repression, right? , the famous repression that enters them in the current account every month. It is very good that we are repeating these things, because sometimes we are forgotten, because as you always complain, you always cry, you always go from victims, who seem to have them suffocated here, so it is good that we remember that the President of the Generalitat, then, rises a wage, saying so quickly and soon. There were doubts about what was superfluous expenditure and what was not superfluous expenditure, and it seemed that some of the groups, well, justified voting against this motion. I am very clear on what superfluous expenses are. The superfluous expenses are these expenses, for example, the expenses also borne by the famous delegates of those embassies, who don't even know what they do, we don't have the agendas, we've asked them, but they don't happen to us... That's superfluous expenses. Superfluous expenditure is the Diplomat : 2_million_de_euros. I understand that the Socialist Party does not want to eliminate the Diplomat, because you have there a person of your party being part of the council, Mrs Bonet, but good. More superfluous – superfluous expenses –: the Office of Civil and Political Rights, which is dedicated to making part reports; the offices of the former presidents – is that we are not only paying salaries to the current posts but also to the former presidents –; various advisory councils that they have around; agencies of all kinds, some of them duplicated, that we do not know what they are doing; money that is spent on institutional advertising, also on travel, such as the pastry that Mr Puigdemont spent with Mr Romeva on his trip to the United States, which cost us an eye of the face and which also did not serve anything at all... These are superfluous expenses. Superfluous expenses are also subsidies that you give, for example, to entities such as Platform per la Llengua, that entity that is dedicated to spying on children in schools or that is dedicated to tweeting by calling for them to harass shops, restaurants that have their letter or serve in Spanish. To these has subsidized the Generalitat, but not only the Generalitat, also the Diputación de Barcelona, where who rules? , the Socialist Party. I understand that you, then, have doubts about superfluous expenses, because you participate in them. Which, by the way, is very funny, because a few days ago we knew, thanks to the media, TV3 invoices where it turns out that the Generalitat subsidizes Platform for Language and in turn Platform for Language turns invoices to TV3 for institutional advertising. It's kind of a circular economy. Everything stays at home. I give you the money around here, you give it back over there. A real shame – a real shame. And yes, these are superfluous expenses, along with many others. And they are superfluous and I would also say that they are obscene, because here in Catalonia we have very serious needs. It has already been said, we are the autonomous community with more barracks. With all the dough spent on TV3, the barracks could be removed. By the way, Covid funds went to TV3 programs like Poland; at the time of the Catalans' greatest need you preferred to spend money on TV3; superfluous spending. And he said: we have barracks; we do not have sign language interpreters in schools, there are only four schools in all of Catalonia that have sign language interpreters. It's just a shame. While you're wasting the money, you're depriving these deaf children of their rights. And like this so many other things. Yesterday I mentioned that you still owe the 2014 extra pay to the officials, who do not pay the supplements to the healthcare staff, who have the restaurateurs without help and so many other things. So, yes, let's eliminate chiringuits, duplicities, etc., and put that money where it's really needed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.259.0	Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mr Joan Canadell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.260.0	Thank you, President. Even though this young man introduced him to VOX, the foundations of this young man could say that they are shared throughout this right, this whole right-hand side of the hemisphere, which is the common denominator. [[remorse of the voice]] If we don't recognize the scandalous fiscal deficit that they're suffering, that they're suffering, we're kicking all the Catalans. And that's very hard. As Congresswoman Reguant said, this whole place is full of lies, but there's a truth, huh? There is a certain fact, and it is that the Generalitat de Catalunya manages 27,000_million euros of expenditure. But, as I said in the last plenary, the Catalans are paying €43,000 million in expenditure, so there's a forty per cent that we don't know where they're going, disappear at once. Councillor Giró reminded us that today the fiscal deficit will be around 19,000_million euros. That's a lot of money, huh? Much more than anything they've said multiplied by a thousand. Where are these money going to stop? So, mirin, for example, speaking of "xiringuitos", Mr Anasagasti said that the Royal House costs us 500_million euros to all Spaniards. And it turns out... – that we are still, unfortunately –, it turns out that only the divout_per_cent of Catalans considers..., agrees with the monarchy, therefore, all this could be carried by us at once. Luxurious embassies. Do you know what Japan's embassy cost? Divide_millions of euros. Rabat's? Six million euros. The gardens of the Paris embassy? Seven-hundred_seventy-six_thousand_euros. Here you go. They also serve these dollars to make submarines that don't float. This submarí cost 2,132_million initially and ended up paying 3,900_million euros. More superfluous expenses. We also have the Civil Guard and the National Police. Listen to me, we already have the Mosses; all these things don't need us for nothing. We also have courts that cost us a lot of money and that everyone sees as the most unjust in Europe. And now we also have the Spanish NASA. Listen, so much laugh at the Catalan NASA it turns out that now they're going and they're doing the Spanish NASA. They've taken advantage of ours, they're investing money and the biggest woman, right? [[Widow's remorse.]] We could have done that, too. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Therefore, listen to me, here, of the list of superfluous expenses in this country unfortunately we have many and certainly many more in the other band. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, as far as tax breaks are concerned, as Mrs Garcia said, this is "a fiscal hell." Of course you are! It is that, in fact, we could eliminate forty per cent of the taxes, tomorrow itself, and live just as well, or as badly, as we live – the same, the same. Therefore, escort, for us, we would already love to lower the inheritance tax, we would love to eliminate the heritage tax, which as a country of Europe already practically tea. We would like to go to some types of IRPF, the lowest, like other autonomous communities. But, listen to me, with the infra-financing we have, that's not possible. Therefore, it will need to be a state to be able to make these tax cuts. Meanwhile, what we're supposed to get is that with the money we pay every year, that's the real benefit of the Catalans, huh? , for this future of our children, as Mrs Garcia said; this should indeed be served. So, let's go do a little pedagogy. Esconti'm, these 19,000_million euros that could be used, for example, to dedicate 1,000_million euros more in salvation. I'm sure the waiting lists are retail, and it's been talked about in this hemic of waiting lists, I don't mean how many hours. In infrastructure, we could allocate 3,000_million more euros a year; in four years we would have all the priority infrastructure that this country needs. Totes, hey! And we could sew trains, huh? , sewing the country from trains, like Suïssa. No problem. We could devote 3,400_million euros to the guaranteed minimum income that would affect 500,000 people, the most patheixin in the country. We could devote EUR 2,100_million to the knowledge society, to place this country in three_percent of GDP in research and innovation, which the advanced countries of Europe have. We could do that. We could allocate €2,000_million to supplement the minimum wages of this country of thirty-one per cent of the employed who do not reach the 1.240_euro reference that we have set in this Government. We could spend 5,300_million euros moving from 3,7_per_cent to six_per_cent of education spending, to ensure the future of this country, which is the knowledge society, and it is the education community's demand. And we could devote an extra 1,000 million to empowering the territory to truly vertebrate the entire territory. For example, huh? Can you imagine this country? Can you imagine? I imagine it, and we'll have it, we'll have it the day we follow an independent state. Therefore, all this is possible. This would make Catalonia one of the most advanced countries in Europe in a knowledge society, in education, and for that... and to benefit, and for that we will continue to work for an independent state. So, listen, I don't want to make a fool of all the folds, this whole band. [[remorse of the voice]] , and recognize – I recognize once – the fiscal deficit and help us to eliminate this premeditated, planned and unwanted impoverishment for all Catalans. Explain to your voters why we have to give up everything I've said with the taxes we're paying now. Escort: Finally, thirty years of fiscal deficit supposes a historical debt accumulated from Spain with Catalonia of more than 300.000_million euros. [[Widow's remorse.]] And we'll claim them to the stock and stock trading the day we follow an independent state. [[Strong applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.261.0	We arrive at the end with great joy. In these moments, has the word Mr.Jordi Orobtig, on behalf of the Republican Left Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.262.0	Well, thank you very much, President. We have discovered that Mr Canadell is the man of the consensus, because he has made all the benches of Parliament applaud him. [[Widow's remorse.]] We find ourselves with a young man, VOX, who is instrumental in putting certain principles into value that everyone who believes in a proper management of public resources thinks he shares, reducing superfluous political spending, good management, sound administration, rationality in spending, responsibility in managing and effectiveness in applying public resources. So far I think we could all share these principles. In particular, we do not share the praise you make of austerity in your youth. For us, the public sector must be an economic engine that injects resources into the economy with the aim of seeking to benefit and prosper citizens and businesses and, ultimately, that makes them possible to achieve the happiness that should be our goal. And, in this sense, I just remember the pernicious effects that our society had on us, so the application of austerity measures after the last crisis. That said, in the first place I think it is necessary for you to congratulate them for progressing properly. They have been able to realize the xifra of the Generality's presupposition, which the leader of his formation was unable to hold on to the public television of our country, and I think it is fair to recognize them there. In short, you come to question different parties of these assumptions. In the first place, expenditure on political and administrative personnel. Secondly, public-private entities and public bodies. In third place, audiovisual communication media. In fourth place, foreign policy. In five places, the logger and the canons of use that say, without further explanation, in 555,000_euros. Propagandistic investment and subsidies, up to EUR 4,300,000 for individuals and self-employed persons, and EUR 900,000 for private enterprises. And all, as they say, with the laudable aim of devoting these resources to social emergencies. And also, they don't say that, blocking the tax cut that interests everyone you actually work for. And at the time of analyzing all these expenses, they can't let go of their ideological bias. It is all reduced to the will to undermine the credibility of public bodies and to question their honorability; to the will to attack all those entities and entities that work for the purposes of such pleasurable purposes as historical memory, cooperation or equality between men and women, barring, lying, as to say that the government of Catalonia, and with it from all over the country, has never returned them; the will to eradicate journalistic dissent, violating the public communication means of this country; to destroy the representation of the government of Catalonia, and with it the whole country, in full and in an economy abroad, by committing action in this area; and to the fact that the government has not been engaged in any activity, and that the government has not been involved in any activity. What's better to buy real estate from the back, from those who are his friends? –; to prevent the provision of resources to persons and entities who are dedicated to ends, I insist, as laudable as spreading the pau and the elimination of conflicts. And, in short, his motion is limited to wanting to impose his ideological corpus, his one hundred measures for living Spain, namely, I hate everything that escapes from the uniformity that you want to impose. In fact, by reading them, I do not know what they are doing in this Parliament, because you, among the measures they propose, propose to dissolve it, propose that the autonomy of Catalonia deixi exist, like that of the rest of the autonomy of this country, to found a unitary state, which is what you would never want to have abandoned. The feeling underlying her motion is the expression of an hatred of the economic and moral right, a moral ethic that, as always, is selective and dependent on her filias and phobias, whether ideological, economic or moral. And we are not talking about populism or demagogicism, we are talking about double morality, because you, in this same ideological corpus, boast that you will not accept public subsidies and, in change, you will receive 9_million euros from the Congress of Deputies, you will receive 3_million euros after the Andalusian elections. And, all this, I insist, claim it to measure 82 of the 100 measures of living Spain. If they want to rationalize, as it was said before, eliminate the Royal House, which on the coast, according to the assumptions, 5_millions and much more, which is what pays for the so-called National Heritage; eliminate the assumptions of Defense, 9,072_millions of euros, plus other covered parties, as we all know; eliminate the Office of Spanish, of Toni Cantó, which is nothing more than a "megaxiringuito". And if they are so concerned about the rationality of spending and there are no unjustified deviations, if you really defend the Spanish Constitution and that Spain is a confessional state, why are you not complaining about the funding of Catholic Church in comparison with the rest of the confessions? Won't it be because you're from those people that the sun goes down while they don't care that people lose their lives across the Mediterranean looking for an opportunity? Enough of lies, enough of fake news, enough of demagoguery and populism. And I'm done – I'm done, president – and the truth is that the body would end up like the great José Antonio Labordeta did; remember, eh? , there to Congress: "Fuck it! But the truth is, I won't, because it's too late and I don't want us to create a healthy one that makes us go to sleep later. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Some applause. David Cid Colomer asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.263.0	Yes, Mr. Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.264.0	They ask for Article 90 of the Rules of Procedure..., for Article 87 for allusions to our parliamentary group, they ask for the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.265.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.266.0	Mr Canadell, miri, my group represents a political tradition, which is that of the PSU, where thousands of men and women died to defend the freedoms, the republic, democracy and self-government of Catalonia. Therefore, they ask him to remove it and never compare me again to the extreme right. I think I can also extend it to the Socialist Group. Ask him to pull it out and ask him to never compare the Common Group again with the extreme right. And I'm sure you have a lot of MPs, if you ask them, if they're tanking their eyes and they don't know whose group you were from when you did the surgery, we'd see who thinks you're closer to than you think you're so far away. [[Greetings. You're saying, "Very good.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.267.0	Mr. Canadell...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.268.0	I won't take it back, but I'll go over what I said...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.269.0	Forgive me, forgive me, Mr. Canadell. Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.270.0	For allusions, because they mentioned my name directly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.271.0	It's 30 seconds... [[Some Members make some observations of dissent.]] I'm sorry, for allusions, you can ask for the word. If you know the article, better.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.272.0	Twenty-seven, I did know.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.273.0	Mr. Garcia, you can sweat, you can sweat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.274.0	Listen, I can go over what I said...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.275.0	I'm sorry, Mr. Canadell, you don't have the word until I give it to you. You're 30 seconds old.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.276.0	Thank you very much, President. I'm telling you, I can get back to my intervention. I compared it to a common denominator fact, which is the non-recognition of the fiscal deficit and you don't recognize it. It's the only one I've said. That doesn't compare them in everything else, huh? But I just said that. So, please, back to my intervention. Thank you. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.277.0	All right. There are no more words. So we shall proceed to the vote on the motion. The vote begins... [[Pause.]] Oh, I'm sorry, just a moment. Mr. Garcia, do you ask for the word? [[Pause.]] Mr. Martín Blanco, do you ask for the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.278.0	Yes, Madam President, for a separate vote on point 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-08-0902.279.0	Any other voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Only point 3. So we're voting on point three. The vote begins. Point 3 did not approve, with 15 votes in favour, 111 votes against and 6 abstentions. Next, we vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion was rejected with 20 votes in favour, 112 votes against. Let's raise the session. Thank you very much.
