ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.1.0	Very nice late. We are ready to begin the first of three days of this week's plenary session, in which, as we have already proved, we recover one hundred per cent of the presence of all Members of the Chamber, a measure that has taken place, as has always been the case since the beginning of the pandemic, with the recommendations of the Health Council and all health authorities. Today we do not only recover full face-to-face here in the plenary, but we also recover the presence of the public attending the sessions of the plenary. And this return from the public, which I could not see in the chamber since March 2020, is an indicator of this ‘ gradual recovery from the situation of the pandemic in our home and at the same time is a reminder of the exceptional situation to which we have been subjected by the health emergency. Therefore, in this return to normality, I would like once again to express my heartfelt condolences to all the victims of the pandemic of covid-19, to all their relatives, to the most appropriate people; also the most sincere thanks and gratitude to all those who, with their efforts, their work, their dedication, have been able to make it possible for us to recover this normality and that today we hold a plethora with all the Members and with the presence of the public. [[Greetings to the Aryan family]] Precisely, among the people who accompany us to the public today, I would like to make a special point..., because we have with us an Afghan family, a family that has applied for asylum to the Spanish State; a request for asylum that the Spanish diplomats have opened thanks to the fact that a member of this Parliament, the fourth secretary of the Bureau, Mr Ruben Wagensberg, interceded, giving a letter signed by various parliamentary groups of this Parliament, for the councillor of Feminisms and equality of the Government of the Generality, for various elected groups in Catalonia and for myself. Not granting democratic asylum to people threatened with death and persecution is not only a failure of the human rights asylum law, but also a failure that has all the democracy to help the achievement of life and those fleeing the horrors of war. Therefore, we give the warmest welcome to the Aryan family, by the way, the mother and her two children. Welcome to the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Perlongats applause.]] [[Commemoration of the World Day Against Breast Cancer]] So, before giving in to the plethora, I wanted to make sure that today, October 19, they know that it is World Day against Breast Cancer, and the object of these commemorations, of these celebrations is just to become aware, to become aware of the importance of early diagnosis of this disease, of breast cancer, to win the fight against cancer, which is the most frequent tumor in women from the world. According to the World Health Organization, the year 2020 is going to record more than 2,2_million cases, and about one_of_each_dotze women will suffer it to the length of their lives. Early detection and prevention are always basic elements to reduce the impact of the disease. And, therefore, let's all stick to keeping her visible and supporting all the advances in breast cancer research. Before starting, also the reminder that the list of questions to answer orally to the Ple is in the ple file, of which all of you already have, and, according to Rule 164, will be substantiated tomorrow morning as the third point of the order of the day of this plenary session. And so I am sure that, in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure, there are four Members who have delegated their vote for this plenary session. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] I also inform you that, as a compliment to what is established by the Movement 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, according to the data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of the year 2021, there are a total of 1,507 victims dead and missing in the Mediterranean. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the commissions (art. 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure)]] Let us pass, therefore, without further ado, to the first point of the order of the day, which is the communication to the Plenary of the composition of the months of the commissions. In accordance with Article 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the months shall be communicated to the Plenary. The current composition of the months of the Committee on Petitions, the Committee on the Status of the Deputy, the Committee on Institutional Affairs and the Committee on Enterprise and Labour is included in the file of the plenary which has been distributed to all Members. I say to them, therefore, that the reading is limited. [[Member compatibility situation]] [[234-00001/13 to 234-00005/13; 234-00007/13; 234-00009/13 to 234-00011/13; 234-00013/13 to 234-00029/13; 234-00032/13 to 234-00066/13; 234-00068/13; 234-00072/13 to 234-00074/13; 234-00076/13 to 234-00084/13; 234-00086/13 to 234-00092/13; 234-00094/13 to 234-00141/13, and 234-00143/13 to 234-00148/13]] So let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the compatibility situation of various Members. As the Opinion of the Committee on the Status of Deputies on the compatibility situation has also been published in the plenary's file, it would also require that the reading be completed, and, if there is no objection, that we approve it by consent. Is it possible to approve it by consent? [[Pause.]] [[Question to the Government on the situation of Afghanistan and the role of the Generality in the gathering of refugees and respect for human rights]] [[300-00050/13]] Let's move on, then, to the next point of the order of the day. It is the desire of the order of the day to ask the Government about the situation of Afghanistan and the role of the Generality in the gathering of refugees and respect for human rights. It is presented by the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra. And, to make the presentation of the inquiry, has the word Mr Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.2.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor, Councillor, well, before starting this inquiry, a special point and an emotional point, today, let me start for two points a little personal, which are certainly political at the same time. Four weeks ago we were in Pakistan, on the border with Afghanistan, when the Feridoon, today in the room, sent us pictures from among the Afghan cremating all his life, cremating documents. He was a journalist, also a UNICEF spokesman; therefore, his documents were also incriminating other people, and he dedicated himself to doing so before he could leave his country. At the end of the day, we returned to Pakistan, Islamabad, to accompany him to the Spanish embassy to be able to apply for asylum. Also the case of Fatima, which should be here – it has not yet reached Parliament, however. Fatima's a 30-year-old girl. In this case, she traveled alone. She had planned her departure from Afghanistan at the time she was run over and beaten by the Taliban. So the photo he was sending us was intubated from the hospital. Still, he managed to get out. We waited for her in Islamabad; we accompanied her to the Spanish embassy. In both cases, therefore, in less than one month, we can hold them here today. He gave us time to enter Afghanistan, leave Afghanistan, arrive in Barcelona and at the end of a few days arrive in Barcelona. So, welcome, Nooria, welcome, Feridoon. Our house is your home. [[Greetings.]] And the second point, also a little personal, but above all also political, is to appreciate, therefore, the understanding on the part of my parliamentary group and also on the part of the Bureau for the more than twenty days, for the twenty days long, that we found ourselves outside the country. We didn't want to be so many days, it cost us a little more than we wanted, in the end, so get out of Afghanistan, but we think that all the work we did, not just Afghanistan but Pakistan, is one of the most important political work, at least in my case, that I could have done in the last four years. Because the large number of people we were able to accompany in their evacuation process and in their arrival process in the Spanish State, and, concretely, therefore, to a city like Barcelona, and seeing them here today, is a job that I'm sure you don't care about. Therefore, in a sense, therefore, the apologies – especially when dealing with a general policy debate as well – for missing, but there we were doing a very important job; a job for which, moreover, we feel responsible; we feel responsible for various reasons. The first is for a question of solidarity, for a question of solidarity, for a question of internationalism with all those problems, with those situations that affect other bands of the world. But still more with a situation of solidarity with which we believe we have a certain responsibility; we have a certain responsibility in which it is passing to Afghanistan, therefore, for some facts that are certainly well known to everyone, but intervention in this case also of the Spanish State in those lands beyond these twenty years, so you have much to see to hear the situation, to hear the facts or to hear, don't you? , the situation that has brought us to the current situation. Therefore, only as citizens of the Spanish State, as well as of the European Union, with our taxes, these years, these last twenty years, things have been going on in Afghanistan, and it is not Afghanistan today without Afghanistan the last twenty years. Therefore, as those responsible, or partly responsible for what was going on there, we also felt obliged, not only morally but also political, so to go there; to go there and do a job for which we also feel responsible, that it is the job to guarantee the legal and secure lives for all those people at risk of the world who decide that the Spanish State, in this case, is a safe way for their life, to guarantee their right to life. We have a law of asylum, in the Spanish State, a law of asylum that is not developed at all. Therefore, it has much to see, therefore, the interpretation that each government can make at the time to guarantee these lives. And until now, this law of asylum had not guaranteed in the later years... so, for example, they see the crisis resulting from the war of Syria and all the images of the people who arrived at the plateaus of Greece..., or the people who escape, for different reasons, from various points of Africa and who find a start to Libya or also to Morocco, and who try, some of these, to cross the Spanish State..., nor do they find these legal and secure lives to be able to dig. We believe that to guarantee the right to legal life is to guarantee the right to life is to guarantee to avoid death. In this sense, and also, so, finally, a little, if I may, to pass accounts, we went there to try to guarantee what is Article 38 of the Spanish Asylum Law. Article 38 states that any non-national person at risk may be at risk, may present himself before a consular body and seek asylum– of a Spanish consular body. With this rule – which was not developed, had not been applied – the people leaving Syria, for example, could not go to a Spanish embassy in Iraq to ask for asylum; the people leaving countries like Mali could not go to countries like Morocco, where there is a Spanish embassy, to ask for asylum, up to a Supreme Court judgment, thanks to an entity, that is Stop Mare Mortum, an entity from here in Catalonia, that recognizes the right of all non-nationals at risk to go to these embassies to ask for asylum. The first time that applies, and therefore here, therefore, we celebrate the political will of the Spanish Government, is now, with the case of the Afghan, in one of the embassies, as the embassy of Islamabad; an embassy that is closed militarily, in a military conclave with all the embassies, and that, therefore, is not so simple for refugees or in search of asylum, better said, can approach these embassies and ask for this asylum. So, one of the jobs that we considered to be, as citizens, wasn't it? With Spanish DNI, and still, more like elected officials, being able to accompany these people into these embassies. We accompanied them, and we celebrated that most of the people we have been carrying in this embassy are accepted. And here, therefore, I also want to thank, to begin with, the whole network of people who solidarily, from civil society – and here too, today, we have a small representation – have been working on identifying cases, making lists and bringing these people to the embassy. I also want to thank, above all, the work of the officials and officials of the Embassy of Islamabad who are working day and night to ensure that these people, little by little, can get their dreams to the Spanish State. And also please, therefore, in the case of the Feridoon and many others, the signatures of many Members and Members that you have been helping us these days because these people can be presented at these embassies. Therefore, what is being demonstrated in this case, in the case of Afghanistan, that, if there is political will, legal and safe lives will work. And when the legal and safe lives work, people... no one is placed on a boat in the middle of the sea to risk their lives. Because of that, that's what legal and safe lives were about. And every time they don't work, it's when people are forced to jump into the sea, and when we see, then, the tragic images that we get too used to in the past few years. More than 40,000 people, only in the area of the Mediterranean, have died and have converted the route of the Canaries into the route of which he tries to go from countries like Senegal, Mauritania to the Canaries, as today, today, the most deadly route of the world. Today there is no point in the world where more migrants are dying in transit than on arrival in the Spanish State. Therefore, this is a key point that what is happening in Afghanistan is something that can also be applied to other embassies from this Supreme Court ruling, which finds that from Article 38 these people could be arriving. If people, moreover, in the case of Afghanistan, do not have this way and want to start the way to Europe, the only irregular way left – you know – is the way to Greece. By the way of Greece, on June 7th of this year, ministerial decrees were passed by a government..., by a ministry, which is the Ministry of Immigration, led by a person of extreme right, that sees Afghans, like Pakistanis, Somalis – and there would be people from Turkey who already came from the series from the pact of the European Union with Turkey in 2016 – having safe space in Turkey. That is to say, a Syrian person, a Turkish person, an Afghan person has a safe space in Turkey. Therefore, anyone who tries to create the Mediterranean and reach Greece from Turkey, according to the ministerial decree, which is Greek, but which in fact affects all of Europe, because it is the only way to enter through the sea, these people have the possibility, or go, the sure, that they will be returned, provided they are locked in detention camps, that this summer we can also visit, and that I am sure they find pictures for the Internet, are camps that remember other things on the island or camps of refugees. They are totally militarized camps that cannot be accessed from outside either voluntarily or under pressure, so no one guarantees what may be going on inside, and they are people that in their..., in some of their moments they may be deported to Turkey. Turkey, a collaborator state in many wars, a collaborator in wars like Syria, most of the Kurdish people who have left Syria have done so thanks or to responsibility for Turkish bombings. Therefore, Turkey can never be a..., Erdogan Turkey can never be a secure space, nor for Afghan society, because the relations between Erdogan and the Taliban government have already begun. And only, lastly, add a not least and certainly important force, which is, from Catalonia, what we can do, despite the fact that the skills at present in the matter of asylum are super centralized, and therefore, I believe it is important that from the advice of Igualtato, that from the advice..., from various councils, in short, therefore, continue to bet and demand for this decentralized model of accompliment, that it is the same that calls for the greater part of what they do in the end is to work in questions of accompliment, in questions of legal life, and in question of legal and secure lives. Therefore, what we are asking in this Parliament above all, in the following motion, when we vote, is to call again for the decentralisation of these legal and secure lives. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.3.0	Next, there's the word "Adviser of Equality and Feminisms," Ms. Tània Verge.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.4.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. Wound and family, we're very happy that you're still here today. At the first meeting of the new political course, the Executive Council of August 31 approved the creation of the Interdepartmental Commission for the Coordination of Government Action in the face of the Political Crisis and Human Rights to Afghanistan, formed by the Presidency, Equality and Feminisms, External Action and Government Obert, and Social Rights, because we prepared ourselves to speed up the response to asylum seekers arriving at the same time as we maintained, who manifested to the Spanish State that Catalonia wanted and was willing to welcome refugees from Afghanistan. All right, 208 people; 208. This is the xifra of refugees that the Spanish State has relocated to Catalonia, from among the small contingent of people evacuated from Afghanistan last August and from which they remain around 160. Despite the fact that the entities and the Government of the Generality have transferred to the Spanish Government a list of people in high risk situations, and of relatives of Afghan people residing in Catalonia, we must say that the evacuation was opaque and gave substantive priority to the working people of the Spanish army. And as the deputy pointed out, what decision-making ability does the State leave to Catalonia? Therefore, basically, because of the process of people..., the process of gathering solicitors and beneficiaries of international protection is articulated through a state program that is under the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration, and it is a program that is financed with European and State resources and is managed by means of refugee entities. This implies, therefore, that the places in Catalonia, strictly speaking, are not ours, cannot be managed directly, it is the State that assigns them to Catalonia on the basis of unclear criteria and without prior consultation. There is a first phase in assessing and deriving cases where only Red Cree intervened. A later phase of colliding with devices of accredited entities, with a maximum stay of six months, and a second phase, a second phase, of preparation for autonomy when international protection has been granted. And what does that mean? That the collide is conceived as a need for emergence, because this program, therefore, incorporates around between divided and twenty-four months of maximum duration, despite the fact that, as you know, refugees will surely never be able to return to their places of origin, or they will return, if they can, to the head of a long time. What kind of demands do we have in the state? At the meeting we held on September 23rd with Minister Escriva, we were going to demand a thorough review of this system. On one side, because it is a compliment to international obligations in the matter of asylum and, on the other, because it abandons this centralist model that generates many inefficiencies. Ras and short. The "what with the end" is to say, how many people; the "on, where they are relocated; and the "how." The conditions of attachment are indestriable and we want to do the three things of Catalonia. What do we demand concretely? So, in the first place, that the high percentage of refusals of international protection claims is maintained, because the Spanish State only grants around the five-per-cent positive resolutions before a European medium of thirty-three_per-cent. Secondly, it increases the gathering and establishing humanitarian corridors to facilitate exit and transit to secure territories. Now we're talking about Afghanistan, but as the deputy pointed out, we could include other cases like Syria. Three, that is reviewed the system of accompliment and integration for applicants and beneficiaries of international protection to ensure that this program is implemented from the proximity. And this means that it is effectively recognizing the total number of Generality gathering skills with the transfer of corresponding resources, obviously both state and European, as it has established itself in different competition conflicts. It also implies that until this recognition is completed, we claim co-decision. Codecission in the assignment of collide seats and in the criteria of relocation to the territory, because it does not happen – as we have found ourselves – that people who have been relocated to the Spanish State and have relatives or friends residing in Catalonia have been relocated to Salamanca, Zaragoza, thus disabling connections that we know are vital for their recovery. We also call on the State to expedite family reunification processes to make it easier for people who already enjoy this international protection in our country to meet with their family members. And, finally, we have also called on the State to make the rules in force more flexible for those applicants for international protection who have already been admitted, who have made their preparations for autonomy and who have not yet been recognised by the State. Therefore, what we are asking here is that it is generic on the part of the State specific instructions to authorize residence and work for exceptional circumstances, with the objective of avoiding that this work that has been done jointly by the entities, the local world, the Generality, the civil society. And because people in this situation are not expecting charity, they are hoping to be an active part of our society. What's the model of where we can work as the Government of the Generality? Taking the right of international protection and following the open country tradition that has defined Catalonia. They understand that this collide is not a temporary place, that we have to plan it well to harmonize its arrival with the surrounding and with the different services: education, socio-community, health, occupation, which we have done is to strengthen the Committee for the Reception of Refugees, created by Agreement of Government the year 2015, will start from a model of collide suitable through a coordinated action with all departments of the Generality, with the local authorities, the diputations, the Barcelona Assembly, the Council of the Catalan Advocate, the Catalan Fund for Development Cooperation and the specialized entities in the field of collide. These are the agents who make up the Committee for the Reception of Refugees. A model that has characteristic differences. One, a coral model that counts with the active participation of the different agents involved in the matter of refuges. Two, an integral model that means, basically, that we meet the different needs of refugees including also the psycho-emotional impacts, he respects his abilities, with a gender perspective to attend to the situations of vulnerability affigidos of women and LGBTI people. And finally, in the third place, sustainable, with this long look that seeks to ensure the repair and gradual adaptation of refugees to shared life. And some of the actions included in the Catalan Refugee Programme are: at the level of coordination, both efforts and resources, with entities and especially with the local world, because the gathering and monitoring of persons seeking international protection must be done and we want to do with territorial balance. And we know that there is a great deal of willingness on the part of the local world because so many gatherings have been passed on to us – they have been passed on to us by the Catalan Association of Municipalities and the Catalan Federation of Municipalities at the meeting held on 2 September. At the level of occupation, we have a program started with the Association of Micropopulations where a one-year contract is provided for to set up a life project in these small municipalities that are interested in re-families seeking international protection in an area suitable for promoting these relations of proximity and venerability. What do you do to mediate and accompany people, what do we expect? In the first place, therefore, to strengthen the cure of mental salvation, both of refugee persons and of persons residing in Catalonia who are anxious about the situation of their family members in Afghanistan. Also the design of a legal advisory service to accompany the international protection process with special attention to women, families with minors and LGBTI collections. And also from this mediation and accompanying people, the reinforcement of the mentoring program, already exist and very successful, that grouply accompany a refugee person or family for a year. Another example that we have started is the joint work between the Department of Equality and Feminism and the Department of Universities and Research with the conjunction of the university system of Catalonia to establish a platform that allows people from Afghanistan to resume their studies in our country. It's to say, as we say, it's coral because a lot of agents are involved; it's integral, because it takes into account the vital itineraries of people, their different abilities; and it's long-sighted, it seeks to be sustainable because, as we say, the gathering is not just an issue of urgency, but a question of being part of this shared life. To conclude, the Government of the Generality wants to be an active part in the construction of an alternative to this strong Europe which, as it is well remembered at the beginning of each ple, has supported itself and is turning the Mediterranean and the Atlantic into common. The defence of human rights is not optional, it is an international obligation and, moreover, it is a democratic and moral empire. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.5.0	Let's get to the 11th point of the order of the day. [[Question to the Government on Public Security and the Police of the Generality - Mossos d'Esquadra]] [[300-00051/13]] The inquiry to the Government on public security and the Police of the Generality - Mossos d'Esquadra, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra. You have the word to make the questioner's statement to Mr Chakir the Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.6.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies: without security there are no freedoms, there are no individual rights and there are no collective rights. In the same way that without freedom, without individual rights and without collective rights, there is no freedom in a democratic society. I start with this idea, which I think everyone is sure we share, because I think it's always worth remembering that when we talk about security we are talking about an essential and priority function, in this case, about the body of Mosso d'Esquadra in Catalonia, the police of Catalonia, and any police force in democracy, which is to guarantee the rights and freedoms of the citizenry. And I start with these ideas, which may seem like a lot of Perogrullo – as I would say in the castle – because I think it's the best way to put it in value and to recognize the great work that the cosmos of Mosso d'Esquadra and the cosos of local police in this country, because we are aware that they give a public service that is absolutely essential, that is key in a democratic society. It is a public service of as much value as the educational service, as the health service, as the social services, as the occupational services, as any of the public services in the country. And they practice it – because we don't forget about it many times – professionals, workers, and public service workers. Because to give a good public service the first one you have to have is a public service vocation, a vocation to work for your fellow citizens. And this awareness makes us understand that the vast majority of democratic societies, at the same time, because of this importance, are and must be self-demanding and critical before the essential public services, before any, also that of security. And if we add a pandemic like we have lived and how we continue to live, now in a different way – and we see it in the plenary, after a long time, there are all of us and all of us, or the vast majority – after the pandemic, the assumption of many new responsibilities on the part of Mossos d'Esquadra and on the part of local police, we also crime, like hate crimes, of which we are proud to take on, but they are new responsibilities, new forms of violence. An implication that is exemplary – and I say it in the first person because I met her in the fight against male violence – which has been one of the great adventures we've had in the last few years, the coordination and the involvement of the Mossos d'Esquadra's body; cybercrime... Also, at the same time, the greatest demand on the part of society, as any democratic society, for greater transparency and social control. And if apart from the structural problems, problems, reptes – in this case they are structural problems – the structural problems that the body has experienced, such as the topall of the number of agents, such as the historical deficit, the 900_millions that the Councillor reminded us more than once, like all the austerity policies that meant a hard blow to public policies and public services, which was a mistake, which I think we all share now, from the fate of the previous crisis, 2007 and 2008. If we add all this we can hear and we can become aware of the tension that saw the body. Because it adds an exceptional pandemic situation with a situation that is going on in many other places around after this confinement period, a point of tension, normal, and there are all these structural problems and understandings that are in a situation of tension. For this reason, from the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, we want to give the support to the body of Mossos d'Esquadra. We want to situate and thank the great work they've done. We want to make a recognizance in this period that have experienced very complex situations, and we have seen them in the summer with some bottles, which has remained the most visible. I also want to remind you that it is a phenomenon that has been given to Catalonia, that we have also seen in other parts of the State, but that it has been given to Berlin with the third wave that there was, with very harsh images. What has been given to Liverpool... I think it's important to place this, because sometimes we look a lot at the honey but I think it's as much worth reinforcing this look, that there are times when they're global. Give this support. To condemn complex and hard situations that have experienced and, at the same time, to explain that support is this but support is also concrete. And it is in this sense, counselor, that I think it is interesting that you explain to us, before this situation, in which way you want to act the department, in which way the Government of the Generality acts, and in which way, too, gives concrete answers. Because in the end it is a summary of many aspects that require a global response, and that starts with small responses in all areas. In this sense, let me make it very clear: explicit support, in form and form, also in those concrete elements that can help overcome reptes – in this case I speak of reptes not of problems. This will to be self-requiring that you have any public service. We live with a lot of normality in any other public service, but it certainly seems to be self-requiring if something is different. No, no, it's just that we have to live with normality. In all public services, any democratic society is self-requiring, because, in the end, it is the best tool for defending the rights of our fellow citizens, and especially, as the Councillor says on many occasions, for defending the rights of the most vulnerable. And we're very clear: it's the best thing we have as a society, and we have to give support to the hour that we don't have to be self-demanding and to place the challenges that we want to take on in the future. There where the police act in defense of human rights, there where the police age for free exercise of the manifestation of citizenship as a matter of law, there where the citizenry gives services..., where the police give services to our fellow citizens and fellow citizens will always tend to us at the side. I also want to take advantage of a little reflection, which I think is also interesting: when we talk about security, we talk about a political and social debate with capitals. I don't like it when we want to limit it to a technical field; no, we have to listen to all the technical knowledge, but it is a political and social debate of the first magnitude, for which I gave the principle of intervention. But the problem is when we convert it into a party debate, into a political debate not with capitals, I won't say with lowercases either, because that's a way of talking that politics with lowercases is day-to-day politics, but in anything that isn't political debate, that's party debate. And I think we should do a much more responsible exercise here, all of us, because it's the best way to have this debate, because all democratic societies want to have this debate, and it's the best way to give support to the body. Because that's also giving support to the body, taking it from the partisan gaze and having the political and social debate that represents security policies in all advanced democratic societies. And I think you're essential. And I also remember an element that I think is important: we have a police thing that's good for us, a police thing with historical background, but now we have it because we're also a society and a community with a mandate to manage its security. And that I think we sometimes forget, the importance that a police body has of its own and of everything that it represents around being able to address from this Parliament, from the Government of the Generality, from the country, with capillary, with the assemblies, the debates of security policy with a proper body. Counselor, respect these challenges that I have set him, respect this situation that goes in place of the sum of many aspects, from the department how it is giving itself an answer, because I believe, and I can say, that it is already giving itself an answer, and with what look is it wanting to give answer to this support that needs the body and those changes that it also needs and that give it much stronger as it is, as the democratic police and that is what we all want in a democratic society of the 21st century as it is Catalonia. Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.7.0	To answer, the word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.8.0	Very good day, president, deputies and deputies. Indeed, security is an essential asset for democratic societies and a guarantee of equality between people. The order, which is sometimes connected with the hard hand, the order is precisely to guarantee rights and guarantee rights to the most vulnerable. Security, public security is to guarantee rights, it's to guarantee freedoms and it's to guarantee rights and freedoms to those that if it's not publicly guaranteed, they won't have them. Actually, this has been a very difficult year, it's always for the security and emergencies, but this especially difficult; this year and a half has been very hard, for the pandemic and also for the effects of the pandemic. The people who have produced themselves, who have been instrumental in the times when there has been an overrun of restrictions, have generated as a slave situations of major tension, of violence, that sense of doubt has had to suffer very particularly the public servants of the security and emergencies of the country. I want to start by clearly condemning the attacks and attacks on members of the Catalan Police, both Squads and local police, as well as the emergency services. They are absolutely unacceptable and intolerable. Besides, I want to make it clear that these assaults are girls for a minority of delinquents. I think it's important and necessary to subrate it. There is a majority of the society that is peaceful, that behaves and that behaves in an exemplary way throughout this period of the covid. And it seems to me that it's necessary because it's stigmatized a lot and, if I may say so, young people in particular, it's stigmatized a lot by linking them to violence on many occasions. They are a minority of criminals who commit situations that are unacceptable and attacks that are completely unacceptable, and we fight and fight with absolute force. I want to express my thanks to the task, to the effort, to the professionalism and to the rigour of the work that the people who make up the bodies of the police of Catalonia, the squadrons and the local polices, and also the emergency services of our country. And particularly – I said earlier – how they managed and worked during the harsh stage of the pandemic. I want to reiterate that this dedication, if not produced, this vocation of public service did not occur, we could hardly have managed this year and a half of pandemic so hard that it touched our lives. Without Squad and local police and emergency services, people, particularly the most vulnerable, would have suffered more, suffered more attacks, suffered more male violence – an appalling sacchar than fighting –, suffered more violations of people who suffer hate crimes and could not exercise their rights and freedoms as individual as a group. And this thank you has to be done and it has to be done clearly in your parliamentary office, because it seems to us that they are worth it, as health care workers and all the other public servants of this country have been at the time. Therefore, please reiterate this acknowledgment. I was asking, Member, about what measures to take. I've said it many times. There is a need for public recognition of the work that is done, but there is also a need for facts and concrete evidence of how this support and agreement by the Government of the Generality is materialized. And that means – and I said it the other day – more agents and more public servants. In this sense there is a compromise to contract every year a half of about 800-750 we did and 250 new bombers. Because yes, because it's necessary, because we've been too many years without contract and that's made things worse. Plus, with our police demands they've had to take over. When the deployment began, there were no 19 million overnight stays in our country. When the deployment began, there was no international terrorist threat as there was at this time. When the deployment began, there was no need to manage a pandemic as it had to. Therefore, the body of Mossos d'Esquadra and the emergence services of our country need more effect. And this means expanding, and this is a negotiation that needs to be done with the State and I'm sure it will end positively, the Squad Mosso stride that has our country that is 18,200 and that we understand that it has to go beyond 21,000, around 22,000, because we believe that it's what our country needs. There's been a reduction in the brutal pressure these years. They think that the assumption of Chapter 2 to Chapter 8 of the Consellaria d'Interior, which manages emergencies and security, went from 2010 to 300_millions to 130 year 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016. Repeat, of 300 – that is, the parties with which the commissariats manage, is to include the cars, the vehicles of bombers, of emergencies, the vehicles of the police of Catalonia, where it inverts, where the maintenance is paid – went from 300 to 130. This has devastated the body of Mossos d'Esquadra and the emergence service of our country. There has been, from the last three or four years, a recovery that we intend to maintain and intensify in our own years of this trend, which from the point of view of the public servants of which it was devastating. And that has to be reversed. From this point of view, so, for example, the incorporation of our vehicles that are absolutely defective from the past... some, there is a renewal that has been made from the past a pair or three years, four hundred the past year, four hundred that. And naturally continue for the year 2022. Also to the question of early retirement, naturally. Because it's not just justice, because Ertzaintza already has it, for example. It's just for the public workers, for the public servants, but now it's a matter of survival of the body. And, in this sense, I place a consensus of all pleas in relation to this issue, because it is very and very relevant. And naturally invest in the bodies – as I said – in the body of emergencies, which has also been, because of this same tendency of infra-financing, absolutely devastated. And in this sense, the last few years have already begun to invest in our vehicles. There will be a total renewal by 2025 of all the material linked to the Bombers body of our country and also the body of Rural Agents. Inversion. To bet on it decisively. Coordination with local police and with the assemblies. Coordination between the advice between the different security and emergency bones. And, as I said, reversal and realization of what the words are. He referred to the need to break up. That's what I'm insisting on, and I'm going to say it again. I will not go into this Parliament to play a game of throwing the body and the support to the body of Mossos d'Esquadra from one of the others. Who wants to do it, who does it, and who does it very well. It's not going to be okay with that. I intend to give support to Mossos d'Esquadra's body and place it in the political debate. Naturally, because we're under all public servants. But not in the short realm and in the debate of a partyer who has done too much, who has done too much, and who has to stop. I will not take part in this game because it seems to me that my obligation is precisely to take up the issues of security, the cos of Squadron and of security and emergence of our country, of the small, partyist debate, to place it in the political debate and in the support of the conjunction of this Parliament to public servants who seem to me to be doing a magnificent job and who, naturally, are submissive – as everyone knows, and so they want – in the scrutiny and parliamentary debate. All support, political action, concreteness with assumptions, dedication, effort and coordination and, of course, the service – as they are – of the majority of citizens of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.9.0	Let's pass the dot from the order of the day. [[Question to the Government on security]] [[300-00055/13]] The question to the Government on security, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. You have the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Mercè Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.10.0	Good afternoon, President. Counselor, counselor. MPs and MPs. Let me begin my intervention by making a defense, without any doubt or in the morning, of all the security bodies of Catalonia. From Juntes per Catalunya, we understand that the security features are essential as a transmission tool to make it complete and to ensure the public security that our citizens need. As guarantors of security, they must be recognised and reinforced as they deserve so that their pocket is redirected with the utmost efficiency and efficiency to the benefit of our society. All of them are public servants who, with their commitment and perseverance, work day by day because Catalonia is adapted to the security models of a modern and forward-looking society. Public order is necessary; yes, it is necessary. Why, can we afford to assault a Mossos police station in Vic last month? Can we allow the agents of Mosso and local police to flee to Tiana for being assaulted by uncontrollable means? Well, no, they can't. At the same time, we must ensure that police actions are provided in the use of force. All performances must be reviewable and subject to question. Our system and our society require control to ensure the balance between regulations, laws and rights of all people. Everyone – everyone – needs to have their rights and freedoms guaranteed with the security they deserve. In recent years, Catalonia's citizens have suffered the consequences of the pandemic, the repression process, the growing hate crimes, the male violence or the LGBTI-phobia, among many others; growing problems to which the Catalonian police must give a strong response. For this reason, it must be that its structure is strengthened with tools and resources sufficient to guarantee the rights of all people living in Catalonia. From the year 1719, when the first teams of armed peasants were founded in Catalonia, until today, the existence of the Mossos d'Esquadra has been strictly linked to the history of the Catalan people. It has experienced transformations in all spheres, as well as the Catalan social and political structures, but always, always, always linked to our identity, to our know-how and to our land. Experience, the professionalism of the body allows us to say that we have an integral police of reference to all of Catalonia, with competences ranging from the protection of people and benefits to the maintenance of public order, the protection of public buildings of the Generality or the management of the traffic, are a judicial police that is aimed at organized crime and terrorism. We protect her, strengthen her, and make her grow up. The police of Catalonia must be a service-oriented body that is constantly evolving. For this reason, it is necessary to work to achieve a new structure of the Catalan police that gives answer to the rights and rights of a people and of a society that wants to be freer, closer and fuller. Cal, so, first of all, name and recognize our Catalonian police force with all the property it deserves. The cos of Mossos d'Esquadra and the local police are part of a structure of state cabdal to have a country pointer in the defense and cure of the territory. That is why we believe that we need to renew and promote a new law of the police of Catalonia that gives answer to the needs of the different parts of security and of our country. We also have to make a recognizance of the task done by the local police in Catalonia. From Juntes, we believe in the need to create a general direction for the local police that marks the guidelines and integration from the territories and the proximity of this police thing so necessary to maintain order to our peoples and our cities. At the same time, we cannot let go of the figure of the vigilantes and municipal guards as a very important local resource. Their regulation must also be a priority so that they can give an adequate response to the needs of the territory. Our police in Catalonia must also have an active role in continuous preparation and knowledge. We want a trained and up-to-date police force to respond to the current challenges. It is necessary to equip itself with technical and digital resources that allow a better elaboration of the attestations, of the use of weapons, as well as of resilience, so necessary at these times. For another band, we have before us the study committee on the police model, a commission that has to confirm the authority of the police of Catalonia that enhances transparency, efficiency and accountability with the maximum guarantees so that there is no type of discrimination. We have a law that incorporates the legislative changes necessary for the same police and for the same Catalans and Catalans establishing a unified order for all the territories that depart from the political consensus, from society and from all the professional sectors that can enrich it. In order to maintain and guarantee the security of the citizenry, the security units must count on the necessary tools to develop their work fully transparently and rigorously. It is in this sense that we believe the one-person security camcorder to be a priority. These must be used to guarantee the rights of the same and also the rights of the citizenry, thus having the actual proof of the fact produced. At the same time, awareness campaigns need to be promoted to ensure the security of citizens based on the legitimacy and recognition of public authorities within the framework of a democratic society. They know there's a lot of work to be done and there's a lot of work to be done. That's why we have a lot of resources and economic resources to accomplish these proposed objectives. And that is why, since the Government of the Generality, the Government of Spain is required to have more than EUR 619 million outstanding in 2017 needed for the purchase of these vehicles, of all this material and of the defence devices, anti-attacks, to give some examples. Tanmateix, from the Congress of the Deputies in Madrid, has to defuse the compromised labor rights, such as that of the early retirements – which we are talking about – that have already been agreed between the trade unions of Mossos and the Consellaria d'Interior, captained by the former councillor, Miquel Buch, in February 2020. At these moments it is on the table of the Congress in Madrid, waiting for the visit of the Government of Pedro Sánchez. And I want to remind everyone here that all the security units of the State have approvals for these early retirements less the units..., the Catalonian Squadron Mosses and the Navarra Foral Police; another hardship for those who contribute more in aspects of solidarity. So, do not let yourself be carried away by those who distort and do not take advantage of sterilized debates, who force political positions to correct, without having been able to deepen or enter into the detail of the will of forces that have the responsibility of government. It is from this space, from the majority, that they have gained confidence in this mandate, that the fruits must be reflected. Finally, Councillor Elena, what actions do you think will be hard in the long run to dignify the work done by the security forces in Catalonia? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.11.0	To answer, the word has the advisor d'Interior, Joan Ignasi Elena.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.12.0	President, Congresswoman, Councillor... you will understand that there are some of the questions I have already said and perhaps in some of them I will be repeated. Go ahead and share the defense he has made of our country's security and emergencies. Indeed, these have not been easy times; they have been quite complicated times. And it's true that sometimes the work that's done on public servers has to be valued, isn't it? We've done it to a lot of them, and we've ratified it today with regard to security and emergencies, and in particular, in his case, which were presented before the Esquerra and Juntas group, so to the Squad Squad Squad and the local police, effectively, and also to the vigilantes. Rockets are a lot of things – I always say that, don't I? –, and sometimes the debate is only addressed to small anecdotes or to small actions that develop the Squadre Mosso Cos. It's the fight against male violence; it's, this year, all that makes reference to teams is that we focus on citizen security, most of the agents patrolling and living day by day with the veins and the veins. And, in this sense, one of the measures, the new uniformity, which so many years ago require these agents, a new uniformity appropriate to the needs of today's society, that dignifies its work, particularly of these workers, precisely of these public servants who are the day-to-days of the road with the veins and the veins. It's also the work that's done in the senseless service. He's been especially intense during this... during this pandemic, because on occasions there were the only ones on the street who were absolutely exposed to all kinds of situations. It is the work that is done at the Institute or is the guarantee of the rights and freedoms of citizens. It is the persecution of hate crimes and, in this sense, hate crimes of male violence. I want to emphasize that it is not just a task of persecution, let's say, and of investigation, ensuring that the eighty-five per cent, for example, of sexual assaults are resolved, is to say, it is held down its responsible, but also the accompanying work, because it does not suffer a single victimization of victims of male violence. In this sense, it's very high on the pocket they're making. And to all this, to all the various work done by the Squad's Cos de Mossos, it must be given support. That's why it's often, despite the sound, the second most valued institution for the citizens of our country, because what they realize is just this close-up work that makes the Squad Way. I want to start by saying that I am also empathizing with the discomfort and complaints that the body manifests, because they have suffered an excess of partisanship that we should attempt to take refuge. I also insist very much on the precariousness of the body as a consequence of the presuppositional fall that they have suffered and the stagnation at the bottom of their effects. Because, for a band, they have advanced the needs of an exponential form. One, the citizens' expectations have also risen with respect to what they want to do with the Squadron's Cosos de Mossos, their demands multiplied, and, at the same time, little by little, the number of effects was reduced. And that did a lot of damage, and that was a lot of public servants' morale. And, in this sense, I empathize a lot with this and also with this discomfort that generates excessive partisanship. And from this point of view, I insist, this counselor will run away from this, I assure you. I've done it since the zero minute and I'll follow it, because it seems to me that it's a mistake. From this point of view, the commission seems to us to be very uplifting. It is important that every one of us, from our positions, say to what we believe is better to guarantee a model of police in our country, with transparency, clarity, no sound; black on white, seated in a table with experts contrasting opinions and with time – one year, which we have donated. A commission that has to start just to value what was done in 2013. Indeed, begin to value what we have committed ourselves to, collectively as institutions, and it has not been done. And, therefore, make up for what it is that we have committed ourselves to and what it is that we have not completed and put ourselves to work on this perspective as well. Looking at the future, the future of a new society with much more challenges, in cybersecurity, for example. That's where the most crimes are growing at these times, and so much so that it needs to adapt to this new reality, for example. There's so many others there are, and they're very, very uplifting. Therefore, from this point of view all the measures that I have highlighted before seem very important to me: the increase in effectiveness, the increase in the number of squads, the guarantee of the question of early retirement, that well, that it is an agreement between the unions and the council, obviously, clearly, because we all agree on this. What's going on is we have to fight it where we have the responsibility and we're going to negotiate intensively, because it seems to us that it's a challenge that you've felt. The future of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, they think that if not, the year 2030, there will be six thousand people, six thousand agents who will be able to hold second activity. How do you manage this? You're inviable. Therefore, this retirement is essential. But, in addition, with a discrimination that is patenting that does not pass into any other type of early retirement or issue linked to retirement, pensions. There are two territories in which they have the responsibility for security and do not have a right to early retirement. The miners, whether they are from Syria as if they are from Mieres, have right to early retirement; here there is this discrimination. So, with negotiation, as we are doing, it seems to me that we have to try to resolve this issue, and I am convinced that it is everyone's will to do so. I want to insist on the idea that I have begun, because to go over the questions that I have already said, to what we committed ourselves to, I have already done it, and it seems to me that it would be very repeated. Where there is public security, there is order; where there is public security, there is justice, and there is no order if there is no justice; where there is public security, there is guarantee of rights and freedoms, especially for the most vulnerable. And if there is no guarantee of rights and freedoms, and particularly of the most vulnerable, there is no order, and where there is no public security what is chaos, disorder, unprotection of the most vulnerable and privileges. Public security is therefore an essential asset in ensuring the equality of citizens. And this will be our commitment: to work for this public security system that involves coordination, proximity, support to public servers and media so that they can pull their work forward. Therefore, we will be at the side of the body; we will be at the side of citizens, and for the guarantee of their rights and freedoms, and particularly, as I say, of the most vulnerable. We will grow the body, we will grow it in an effective and also better and adapting to the changing reality of our country. Because public safety, I insist, is a guarantee of equality and equity, and our obligation is to work for the whole of Catalonia, for the majority of citizens. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.13.0	Thank you very much. [[Question to the Government on economic action to combat concentration of wealth and social inequalities]] [[300-00054/13]] Let's go to the top of the agenda, the question to the Government about economic action to combat the concentration of wealth and social inequalities, presented by the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Pode. He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.14.0	Well, good afternoon to everyone. With this question, what we want to do... it's obvious that we have a problem... we want to show, say, that we have a problem of inequality, of inequality to our society. But we don't just want to highlight the problem but, obviously, we also want to make proposals to act there, because we understand that it is our political responsibility to remove the conditions, the elements that cause this inequality to exist, increases and is chronic, right? And we want to do it now because we understand that, after more than a year and a half of collective sacrifices, it is time to redress injustices and advance rights, especially in the most vulnerable sectors of society. There are some data that I would like to give so that we understand the problem we are talking about – world data, state data, data from Catalonia –, and also, also, understand, in parentheses, that we have a real problem of knowing concrete data, for which it does to Catalonia, that it would force us to improve also the service of collecting and processing data from the Idescat – we would do a good favor to the society with up-to-date data and to the maximum of possible disaggregations. But, having said this, let's go back to the one we're dealing with. Globally, this year 2020, in the midst of the pandemic, the world's fifty richest people won €640,000 million. And it has recently been warned that the richest percent of the world in 2030 will own sixty-six percent of the world's wealth. If we take to the level of the Spanish State some data, we would see that, in the Spanish State, the deu_per_cent of the population today is accumulating more than fifty-sis_per_cent of the wealth. We already have the Spanish State more than 1 million people who have more than 1 million euros of wealth, but it is the same Spanish State in which there are 11 million people who have less than 12 thousand euros per year – this twenty-four percent of the severe poverty we also have in Catalonia. And, in Catalonia, the concentration of wealth in the richest deu_per_cent of the population has increased nine points between 2008 and 2017, the same years in which labor returns lost 3.7 points on gross domestic product, which are roughly the same points that earned capital returns on gross domestic product. In the distribution of the national income of the rich created in this country, some won and others lost; the richest continued to win and the most vulnerable, the most affluent sectors lost. This is the problem we have before us, and we know that social inequality has a good part of its cause in the labour market. We know that there are questions such as the regulation of the labour market, the low productivity of the economic model or excessive business atomization..., are elements that do not help us. We know that many of these causes cause the purchasing power of wages to be stagnated, frozen, or that there are many Brits in the labour market, genera, wage Brits, right? But we know that we have a hard social problem in inequality and that social inequality, this that is generated in the labor market and this that is not removed from the redistributive policies, is a problem that has consequences in salvation, people with lower levels of income have more difficulties to have a good greeting. We have seen this with the pandemic, we have seen how the most affected sectors have been, precisely, the most vulnerable classes, the lowest social classes have had more problems with health. We see democracy, we see that in territorial areas where income levels are lower there is higher abstention. Therefore, we also have problems of democracy. We have problems of social cohesion, we also have problems of an unsustainable consumption pattern because the same inequality generates even a conspicuous consumption that does not help the maintenance, say, of the planet and generates a negative spiral of unwanted consumptionism. But inequality does not only affect the poor. Unequality affects the whole social fabric of society. We know that societies that have more rich tenenional entrances and the poor lose in social cohesion. Community life weakens and lacks mutual trust. The more unequal, the less mutual help. More unequal, less solidarity. The same inequality generates a spiral, we say, of unsustainable consumerism and, many times, little healthy. We can fight inequality from government policy, from the determined action of public governments, and that's what we want. We know that distributive policies can affect them, but we know that their recourse is limited because they do not act at the base, where inequality is generated. For this reason, we want to bet that there are predispositional policies that act there where this inequality is generated: in the labour market; focusing on where inequality is created, intervening in the labour market, intervening in the structure of wages. The government can't look at another side. We know that interprofessional minimum wage plays a positive role. We know that minimum wage does not destroy occupation; on the contrary, it drives domestic demand, encourages innovation and investment in physical capital, etc. We have already talked about it some other time, but we do not want to talk about the minimum wage today, we want to talk about the inequality that is generated from the difference in the windfall between the maximum wage and the minimum wage. Because it's here, in this excess wind, in this wind, many times, scandals where there's no inequality and the problems they create. Therefore, what we want is to reduce the maximum wage. We want to raise the maximum wage by limiting the socially acceptable and productively justified wage rate. We want the windfall between the minimum wage and the maximum wage to be reduced. Why is it the maximum wage a democracy can accept? Is it from or to twelve, how was it planted in the reference to Switzerland a few years ago? Is it from or to eighty-eight, that they have Naturgy's direction in relation to employees who cover less? Is it from or to 238, that it's the windfall between the employee who pays less and the one who pays more to Ferrovial? Is it from or to 298, that it's the fan of the Inditex directive? What's the fan we can accept? We want to limit the maximum wage, because when we limit the maximum wage we are putting in place a pilot plan that gets the maximum wage in Catalonia with everything that it represents. But what do you mean? Doesn't mean they're gonna charge less. On the contrary, what we want is that we all cover more. We want the workers of your company to push their wages in the same proportion, too. We want the gain that the job creates to be shared fairly and equitably among all the people who have contributed to creating this wealth. Wages of these characteristics that we have said are an opportunity for social justice, but they do not have any economic justification, there is no productive logic, there is no value added that incorporates this higher direction that takes 298 times more than the average wage or the minimum wage in your company. There's no element that I can justify. It's a simple extraction of girls' returns on the precariousness and limitation of low wages to businesses. The gains that the work creates in its daily work are appropriate for certain leaders – to certain companies – who ultimately take advantage of the lack of democracy in the company to impose conditions and extreme and appropriate gains. Therefore, it is the lack of democracy for the enterprise that allows these wage winds, but it is also the renunciation of public powers to intervene to correct the system's negative dysfunctions. And the public authorities are obliged to intervene, to regulate, to avoid these negative dysfunctions that the system has and, in this case, these excessive wage winds that are a social injustice. Therefore, what we want to put forward is a clear proposal for the government to intervene, which affects this change in real logic to limit the spread of democratic culture and contribute to equality. We also want the Government of Catalonia to lead these political and social debates on foundations in the State and Europe. Our proposal is to draw up a plan; a plan which, in the first place, uses social concertation to put the debate in common between business organisations and trade unions, seeking consensus on which is socially and democratically acceptable to Catalonia. The second question that we pose to this pilot is to take it to the practice that entities and companies working with the administrations voluntarily – but make it a requirement at the time of bidding – some conditions of social justice and of wage sales that have emerged, we say, from social concertation. There's no way the government's going to hire Ferrovial with this paycheck. And the third question, obviously, that this pilot plan has to incorporate is that the public enterprises apply there where the government directs..., in the public enterprises that are their own, apply this maximum wage. This is our proposal, to intervene to combat social inequality limiting the wage rate, limiting the maximum wage that is socially unacceptable. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.15.0	Thank you very much. Next, has the words of Mr. Jaume Giró, Counsellor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.16.0	Thank you, very honorable President. Deputies, deputies, Mr Joan Carles Gallego... – ah! You've changed places. Hostile, don't chase me. (Laughter.) Thank you. Thank you very much. Miri, you're asking me a question proposing that we seriously consider implementing a maximum wage in Catalonia; as a pilot test. Look, I want to be very careful at the time of considering an option that hasn't been successfully implemented in any country in the world at this time. The experience that comes closest to a maximum wage is that of Cuba, but I understand that neither do you take it as a model to apply. The application of salary topalls has no empirical evidence at all, and there are undeniable disadvantages that I'm sure you don't pass through. A maximum wage in Catalonia would stimulate the relocation of our businesses and our talents to other areas of the State. And therefore, from my point of view, Mr Gallego, a measure such as this, that for what you are pursuing, which is reducing inequality, we would be fully in agreement, but this concrete measure should, in any case, be implemented within a larger scope, as at the very least of the European Union. On the other hand, this type of regulation would make companies – and I can tell with all the knowledge of cause – look for a way to make the payments from the higher subs in another way. As you know, the Swiss – you have mentioned – voted against this possibility in a referendum where the legal limitation of a maximum wage was rejected with more than sixty-five percent of the votes against. If one day you come to the Government, as you are now to the Government of Madrid, you may also be able to call a reference, like the Swiss, on this subject. But vagrantly! Because they already know who's the price that makes Spain pay to summon references to defend... [[applause]] To defend our convictions. I honestly believe that limiting the maximum wage for you today is not a realistic option on the table, but I do care very much about the foundation of what it lays and what it has to do with the model of country and society we want for Catalonia. The country model that this government has is a country model in the form of a solid welfare state with effective mechanisms to redistribute wealth and promote equality. And when I talk about equality, for me, above all, it's equal opportunities. This is for two reasons: the first, a question of principles, a question of values. A healthy society cannot accept that there are people who suffer and do not have sufficient resources to live with dignity. Societies where the gap between rich and poor is small, and where social mobility, beyond the social ascent, is high, are cohesive and solidary societies. On the other hand, societies with high inequality and low welfare states are conflicting, unfair and often violent. The second reason to promote equality is practical. The first was for moral values, if they wanted, in the philosophical sense of the word. The second is practical. Part of the conviction that intelligence doesn't go by barrels, it's distributed. And as I suppose we all believe, the talents are homogeneously distributed to society, just like Sant Gervasi and Ciutat Vella, Raval or Pedralbes. And then, we can't afford to let a part of this talent not flourish because of lack of resources. Public education must work and be at the bottom of children and young people in all barrels to contribute, from the beginning, to equal opportunities. It is literally an issue of economic efficiency. It is to the benefit of everyone that the potential of each person, and that of the country in its conjunction, is realized to the maximum and that it is not awkward no talent. Therefore, we cannot untie the struggle against the inequality of wealth creation. And that is why a sensitive government with social justice cannot fail to promote a friendly environment with the economy, and in particular with small and medium-sized enterprises. They think that small and medium-sized enterprises represent in Catalonia the sixty_per_cent of GDP and the seventy_per_cent of employment. Collecting small and medium-sized enterprises is the safest way to promote wealth creation and to have the opportunity to redistribute it. Therefore, a first idea: the Generality is compromised with the struggle against inequality, and our strategy is to encourage the creation of wealth through peppers, entrepreneurs, and support for the productive economy in all the future. You are interested in the government's economic action to combat the concentration of wealth and inequality. I'll tell you two things: the first has to do with the facts, where we are, and what margin do we have to change things. Miri, one state has two ways of promoting equality. One, it's with taxes; basically, make them more progressive, didn't come back, obviously. VAT is a regression tax; it pays the same for a pill of soap, or for a shampoo, or for a few Saturdays the Leo Messi, when he was still running around, as the delegated councillor of the multinational that you wanted. That can't be from my point of view. It shouldn't be. Here we are to talk about progressive taxes: IRPF, assets, estates and donations. The other way is public spending. This expenditure is intended for areas that promote redistribution such as health, education, social transfers, public transport, housing or employment policies. In the field of fiscal policy, Mr Gallego, to say the least, I would say that the generality is very close to touching you. The room for manoeuvre we have is very small. For what it does to public spending, tell it only with health, education, work, housing and public transport we are already dedicating at these times the seventy-night_per_cent of the assumption. And for what it does to taxation, as I said, the financial insufficiency of our system has forced us to progressively push the level of taxes. In order to be able to provide services which the territories of the State can provide with lower taxes. I'm sorry, but it's just like I say. So simple and so sad. We are working at these times on assumptions in which we want to introduce new social equality-oriented measures. But, I insist, the margin of additional maneuver we have now is as small as it is now. I told him I wanted to tell him two things about fighting the concentration of wealth. The first is what I just told her, the faction. The second has to do with our possibilities. Our model is a model of a country that minimizes social patience, that gives its citizens opportunities to prosper, that has fair mechanisms for redistribution of wealth, that stimulates, as I said, the productive economy and that helps to boost the activity of small and medium-sized enterprises. I can hold the certainty, Mr. Member, that if we arranged every year of the 18,000 million that evaporated from our noses, this model would cease to be an aspiration and would be a reality or, if not, would lie down a lot. With 2,400_euros more per city each year, Catalonia would not be just a richer country, but would be above all a more just country, a country capable of generating wealth and, therefore, with more tools to correct inequality. Believe me, Mr Gallego, that, in a situation of fiscal sovereignty, ruled governments, Catalonia would be a country more just, more egalitarian and with a more inclusive welfare state. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.17.0	To make the reply, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.18.0	Thank you, Mr. Giró. You didn't convince me, did you? He didn't convince me. He didn't convince me because... well, the appeal to Cuba is an easy appeal, so to speak. In Cuba they may be poorer than here, but possibly the elements of social justice have worked for them most. Possibly they have less wealth – less wealth – much less wealth – I will not go in to say why nor to analyze their economic or political structure – they have less wealth, but they have more social justice. And if it's not so, I invite you and I to visit Cuba together and we can contrast it. [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] Don't worry. And then..., and then... - that's what I'm counting on. And then we put it in the same way with the honourable Members and Members so that we can see what we all understand for social justice. Because it's true that it's about minimizing social patience, but maybe it's better not to create social patience. And what I'm laying down at these times is that we have to minimize social patience, certainly, with distributive policies, but I'm saying that I want to act on predispositional policies to avoid social patience, because if there's less social patience, because we're predisposing well afterwards will be easier to redistribute well to prevent the little that's going to be chronic and generating even more. Therefore, it is true that distributive policies are important. Taxes? I like that Mr. Giró is proposing that we push the estate tax. I'm glad he says so. I like to say this because they recognize that the fiscal pressure in Catalonia is thirty-sep_per_cent, in front of the forty-sep_per_cent– forty-sis_per_cent– of the European Union. We have room for fiscal pressure; it is questionable, but we do, if we compare it to the European media. It is certain that the public social expenditure of the assumption of the Government of Catalonia is of the seventy-eight_per_cent. It would only be less than seventy-eight per cent! If our skills are fundamentally social policy! But let us not forget that the set_percent of GDP in health is spent in Europe; the 5.6_percent is spent in Catalonia; the six_percent of GDP is the standard average at European level; the 3.4 is spent in education. We have room, we can do things and we can do them better if we want to make distributive policies. But we're talking about making predispositional policies here. And when we talk about making predispositional policies we're about doing what we can do, and we can limit the salary topall with our ability to act as the economic actor we are, the Government of the Generality of Catalonia. Because we contract, we bid, with companies, and we can ask for conditions to companies that want to work for the Government of Catalonia. And one of the conditions that we can demand is social justice in the case of businesses, economic democracy in the case of businesses. Instead it is written that the director general created a value added three-hundred times higher than that generated by the cleaner of that railway center, or that the operator of that Naturgy center. Instead, it is written that the added value difference that creates one or the other has this two-cent, three-cent, one-cent fan; they are scandalous fans that are not justified, because nothing would make the director general of Naturgy or the director general of Ferrovial without the cleaner's worker or without the operator, but they would, because one and the others are indispensable. And, therefore, social justice must take account of it. And we can condition it – can condition it – with our action. This is why we are asking for a concerted pilot scheme with business and trade union organisations. We agree, we create a democratic culture, we create a culture of social justice, we create a culture of inequality at the base. We don't just create culture, we apply it there where we can condition the dynamics of the market, we apply it to our businesses, which we drive and we have to account for ourselves alone. But there is not enough with a pilot plan against inequality finding the maximum wage; we can do more. Let's talk about the workers of the home, talk about dignifying the work of the workers of the home. You can do it, you can act. We will have proposals for respect. We can also act on the autonomes, on the false autonomes, that digital plataforms are using these people to keep them in precarious and poorly paid situations. Intervene, control, avoid false autonomes. We act on the peppers, we act obviously on small and medium-sized enterprises giving them all the support possible. We avoid that small and medium-sized enterprises follow the outsourcing of the ultimate risk of large enterprises, that using the morosity of large enterprises end up with creditors, large enterprises, which suffer small and medium-sized enterprises subjugated by the role of large enterprises. They can do it, too, from the Government of the Government of Catalonia. As always, they are political options that ultimately bring us to different models of social justice. Ours is to intervene to correct the deficiencies that the market generates, the inconsistencies, the negativity, the social injustices that the market generates. And we can do it, we have skills, we have instruments. Not all of them. Could we have more? Yeah. But the ones we have, let's take advantage of them, that's possible. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.19.0	Then there's the words of the Economics and History Advisor. [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.20.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Gallego. I see that work mobility... [[Rialles.]] I hope that when we have more resources we can go to Cuba on a trip, huh? , of those who are done before, many years ago, who now no longer get angry. Look... thank you very much; thank you, for your intervention. Miri, I don't exactly know the data, I don't know if there's much to be trusted about the social justice in Cuba, huh? It's a country that I can assure you that, out of joke, I value in many things, and in others... obviously, I don't share. But I will tell you that the indicator, as you know, most commonly used to measure inequality is the Gini index. The Gini index ranges from zero to one hundred: zero indicates the maximum equality and one hundred, the maximum inequality. The Gini coefficient for the year 2019 to the European Union was 30.2. To Spain, 33. In Catalonia, 31.2; 31.2 versus 33 of the Spanish midjana. In the United States the index is 48, said points per mountain of Catalonia. And to the United Kingdom, 36.5. In Germany, in change, they have a lower index, therefore, fairer, less unequal, of 29.7. In Catalonia, I repeat, of 32.2. I mean with this, we're on a level of inequality that we need to improve and that we need to work and that we need to continue investing in social public spending to improve it, but we're not so bad. We may continue to work to make Catalonia a fairer society, but we are not so bad, Mr Gallego. We are many years old, I do not say for the government of this country, that it is working, I think, in the right direction to meet the needs because no one is left behind, with the resources so limited that we have. I insist, pardons, huh? I may be carrying weeks with the assumptions, but believe it's a bad thing to see how many needs you can't cover. I would also ask you to keep it real; at the time of seeking to improve inequalities, we have to monitor the measures, why do they sometimes turn against what a search, you know? Many times it passes. So, I'm telling you that I think we're looking for the same thing, but we need to make sure that the measures we're applying, as I said before, are not counterproductive and that we're not telling every business you've ever thought about, that any of them have yours in Catalonia, unfortunately, they're all out, only small and medium-sized businesses. To small and medium-sized enterprises, you tell them that you will take a pilot test with maximum wages and I can already assure them that many leave. Why? So because privacy is what it is. So, I don't think it's this way for where we're going to attack the problem, it's other ways, like I said, through tax and social spending that solves inequalities. At this point he knows that we have a problem, which I have already mentioned, with the issue of the fiscal deficit, but we also have the issue of the investment deficit. I would urge you that you now have a very good relationship with the Government of Spain as well to help us to be told once and for all how much money can be spent on those who have announced to us. I'm asking for it, please, because we've been in a lot of years with a lot of luck inverting two of every three euros, huh? I mean, we'd be happy if there was a 33,3_per_cent default in the end. As far as we're concerned... you know that by 30 June we're carrying the tretz_per_cent. Help us to invest more, because also, with more money, help to reduce inequalities. Thank you very much. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.21.0	Let's get to the 14th point of the order of the day. [[Question to the Government on the State of the Administration of Justice]] [[300-00049/13]] The question to the Government on the state of the Administration of Justice, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress. You have the word to make the questioner's statement to Mr Rubén Viñuales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.22.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs..., Counselor, I'm sorry to tell you that in my inquiry I won't finish inviting you to a trip to Cuba [[relays]] But I am convinced that the issue of justice is very interesting. Look, justice is not one of the issues I spend most of my time in parliamentary debates, but perhaps the cause is misconstruing that justice only consumes resources and does not give benefits. A profound mistake, since justice is the very basis of a democracy and it gives us a benefit many times intangible, but of an incalculable value, which is social pau. Madam Counselor, I must tell you that there are few servants who have been so abandoned by the Generality with justice. In his condition of lateness, he should know, and I am convinced that he does so as well as we do, that the Government of the Generality has never held him as a priority. And don't come to us, with all due respect, with "Spain is bad, very bad and "Spain in clothes from Guifré le Pilós. And we are aware of your new argumentary, which Mr. Canadell said, of the 300,000_million euros of espola from the Spanish, and that I recognize you that you still take me out of the sound and for the night I'm quadrupling the numbers and it makes me think that we would no longer be the richest born in Europe, but of all the history of humanity, with the calculations of Mr. Canadell. But in the end, justice, in modern states, is one of the foundational pillars. It is the judicial system that guarantees, in the end, with effective judicial protection, the rights, precisely, of the citizens. This function implies a just way of resolving conflicts effectively, efficiently, quickly and with quality. A performance conception of justice is required, it is a public service to satisfy a citizen's need, placing the analysis in a logic of efficiency, efficiency and quality beyond the exercise of the same power. The European Union's latest reports on the justice of Europe have determined that effective justice systems that defend the State of law have a positive economic impact. The studies find that the reduction of the duration of judicial proceedings in only one percent, measured in time of processing, can increase the growth of enterprises, and that an increase in the percentage of enterprises that realize that the judicial system is independent, tends to associate itself also with a greater increase in billing and productivity. So important is to have a good judicial system for the productive economy of the country. According to the data we have in Catalonia, the 2020 congestion rate is increasing from the previous year to 1.65, slightly below the state average of 1.60. Miri, at the end of the year 2020 there were 540,809 pending cases of resolution in Catalonia and the lis pendensity rate, which is the one that is triga to solve each of the subjects, it is of middle-months in Catalonia and of six-months in the rest of Spain. But it is still harder: with the first half of 2021, the number of envoys who join the Catalan courts, especially on economic issues, are, and by far the highest in all Spanish autonomous communities. And this, moreover, is produced in a context on a plant of 837 places of judges and magistrates of Catalonia, there are seventy-eight vacancies, almost one deu_per_cent, and in jutjats with more lispendance and congestion, where the staff concerned– and you know it perfectly– the Administration of Justice is situated around fifty_per_cent. It has been said that it is not only fifty, it is almost the totality or absolutely the totality. There are many of these jutjats on, all the petitions of the organs of justice, the naming policy to cover these produced bass is absolutely insufficient. And the Department of Justice systematically denies until several weeks have passed since the vacancy occurs, with the damage that this entails. I remember, Counselor, that you, in your appearance to the Commission of Justice, said that you wanted Catalan courts. I say to him: I want good judgments, I want good judgments; I don't want judgments that have an origin name [[applause]] As if they were a Priory's sight, which I want to be good and good judges. One should ask why we in Catalonia are not attractive to new members of the judiciary and the prosecution. I am convinced that the environment we have experienced these years has not helped, but I also know that it is not the only reason. Helps with that of the Spanish Government that by sending 2_million euros to scholarships for opponents to the judiciary would help to remove class barriers and generate a certain deal in Catalonia. You think that a person who has to study eight hours a day, six days a week for a midday of three or four years, after the race, so as to settle an opposition to judge or prosecutor cannot do so if he is not lucky enough to have been born in a family that has money. The spirit to seek in an appropriate, serene and relaxed way solutions to this difficult problem that we have in Catalonia. He will find us there – he will find us there – whenever he does not want to do politics on this issue and simply wants to manage effectively. The TSJ of Catalonia has repeatedly called for the extension of the judicial plant, which would lead to numerous judicial parties in Catalonia separating them from jurisdictions; it is said that there are no mixed courts. With the benefits that experience shows us it entails. In addition, the Board of Governors of the TSJ has identified and proposed as organs and judicial places to be included in the plan for the creation of judicial organs for the year 2021 a total of thirty jutjas us– thirty – and divides places of magistrate of the TSJ and hearings into different provincial and natural areas. You make a bet, counselor, decided to improve judicial facilities and equipment as well. Three first stones have been laid in the city of Tarragona Justice, you know, and it is a matter of concern and concern to us; to the Jutjats of Sabadell, where you are; Santa Coloma de Farners. And a subject that has a lot to worry about: the re-victimization that many women have to suffer when they report male violence and end up in a juxtaposition, in a two-meter archive that is insured for hours. You can't be proud of them. And I don't get it again that it's all Spain's fault that she doesn't want to pay for us. This is his responsibility, his advice, the Generality. The current Statute of Autonomy provides for Article 107(1) and (2) to refer to the new judicial plant and empowers the Generality to create nine sections and courts. And I am not sorry that even the Constitutional Court told its ruling 31/2010 that this apartment does not violate the jurisdiction of the State. That's why we're asking him firmly for justice, and that's got to be hypothetical assumptions. I suppose some day they'll have assumptions. I say. If they do, I clearly apostate for justice. It's very easy to put money on it. Spain's budget project will increase by more than 11,5_per_cent in the field of justice. Can you guarantee that it will pass the same in the generality's premise? – if there is one. Nor has the digitalization of justice been solved, you do lawyers and lawyers a favor, and you have suffered just like everyone else, videoconferencing doesn't work, it's a lottery and it's given to your God to see if that day will end up working. Telematic communication systems must be adapted to the requirements of the same laws, 18/11 and 42/15. Because, as I said, there are urgent measures in the field of justice, and one, which would obviously be to stay there for money, but there are no others that need not mean an expense and that can help a lot to decongest our justices. And here your government has already incomplete the main measures, such as regulating the alternative dispute resolution. The Government of the Government had no plans to draw up an extra-judicial conflict resolution plan since the entry into force of Law 9/2020 of 31 July and a year to draw up the draft law. Both of them inconclusive. This issue is urgent, Counselor: she asks for justice, but she also asks for the same society. The day-to-day justice of our citizens can never be the right path. It doesn't still have to come to a jutjat and it doesn't all work out when it comes up to a jutjat. For his peace of mind, his esteemed alternate government already has proposals that we will get to him. Another competence of its department is free justice and free legal guidance under Article 7 6.1 of the Statute of Autonomy. In Catalonia, the expenditure was more than 48 million euros. They look like money! The problem is that with a total of just over 302,000 consignors, it's a half-€160 per consignor. All this also includes infrastructure expenditure. In Catalonia there are about 10,000 lawyers from a hundred of some 104,000. It's not a bad thing, the amount. It is necessary to expand and improve the services of free justice, improving the coverage of expert assistance, reducing notarial and registrar oranges, expanding the SOJ, promoting alternative conflict resolution and mediation services, and expanding the free legal assistance in the areas envisaged by the court, such as reconciliations, pre-emptive complaints that obviously have an impact on the judicial process. And it also improves the remuneration of the turn of offices, so that there are no judicial acts that do not have any type of payment, for example, 544 ters or prison appearances or an entry and register, that the company can be or companion all day and does not charge absolutely nothing. We also need to talk about prisons, Counselor. We don't like the situation in prison. This circular, 2/2021 has not helped to improve the situation. The loss of more than five hundred effects compared to the year 2010 has also helped to improve the situation. That the middle age is fifty-five years, not even help, counselor. Nor does it help not to act when the attacks to function have increased by 2.53_per_cent compared to 2009. Four hundred_night-seven attacks during the year 2020, of which thirty-nine were heavy. It's not consumable, Counselor Ciuro. With five seconds. Justice matters. It may not be what matters most to this Parliament, but it does matter to the citizenry and, above all, to a healthy democracy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.23.0	To answer the word has the counselor of Justicia, the lady Lourdes Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.24.0	Good afternoon, President, thank you very much. Deputies, deputies, Mr Viñuales. Many thanks for your inquiry and, more importantly, because luck has meant that we have the Economic Adviser attached to the government's benches. Therefore, I believe that this inquiry begins with a little bit and, because, moreover, I have to say, I do not know if from the time of Guifré the Pilgrim that we go poorly financed, I think from before; there is agreement – there is agreement. But in any case, tell him that, effectively, good justice is a guarantee of a democratic state, of right, solvent and, moreover, directly benefits social progress and legal security, which is very important. Therefore, we have a jewel of the welfare state between our hands and are often very ill-treated. I have to say as the professional of more than twenty-five years in court. I'm a lawyer, and I've seen it, and I've suffered like you. But it's that, besides, not only because of the Generality's assumption, but also systematically because of the State's assumption. Fixed that Next Generation fonts do not practically contemplate anything for Justicia ; 3_million euros for computerization. Fortunately, in Catalonia we are doing our homework and digitalization, and we are going to implement what justice is. How much. But it's that, for example, by imprisonment, zero, and these are our competence. Nor for the efficiency of buildings. And when we're talking about failings to the Justice Administration, we're talking about failings to buildings, but above all, what matters most, is that it's the people to whom we dedicate the efficiency of justice. And these people need, for a band, you'll work well paid to do their work safely, and we need to get the plants out, and we also need them to be attached..., with the possibility that they'll be attached to their language, because that helps to make justice much closer and justice much more effective in resolving the conflict, which is what it's meant to be. And we have a lot of reps. As I said, more than twenty-five years of practice in the profession make us see what our Justice Administration's black holes are, and how many years ago they've been like this. Therefore, it proves unequivocal that the system has been secularly underfunded. A high rate of temporality. It's just that a lot of the intervention that you said I can agree with, and I'm also glad that a good part of the appearance of this one will advise you, right? Because there will be fears that he will see that they are the same ones I said at his time in the appearance. With deia, high rate of temporality of the functionaries, a 51.29_per_cent of interintity. Yes, it is true that we will now incorporate 1,845 new additions that obey the opposition of the 17th and 18th years, and now we have asked to offer 757 more places of public offer to reduce inter-initiation. But he asks us all, he asks the Administration of Justice in general and the Administration of Justice in Catalonia in particular. And here we have work to do folds and I think we can do it. Another of the problems we have, I'd say, is català's escape to justice. What it does is that this justice that we want it to be and that we want it to be in the service of the city, when it only dictates a 7.4_per_cent of its feelings in catalá, what it does is to give a clear signal that justice is not the same for everyone. Because if you do it in one language or you do it in another, there's a feeling that the success of the process can be one or another. And we do many things from the Administration of Catalonia, from the Department of Justice of Catalonia. We have tools to translate documents; we have language advice; we have a legal portal– LexCat – we offer in Catalan language the translated state legislation, the most relevant legislation; we offer judges and all staff of the Administration of Justice Catalan language courses, courses of legal language; we make a practical model of work in Catalan; we have agreements with the lawyers' colleges– you know – with the system with the services of free justice. We also have an agreement with the Language Platform, and we are now working with law schools and a much broader set of entities on the Compendium portal. cat; that it is a library catalog that will bring together more than three hundred linguistic resources in catalá. But there's not enough. What we want to do from the Administration, from the Department of Justice, is to make a campaign – which we have already started – that is to say, 'Justice for the Catalans, so that... I don't know, we try to influence the professionals of the Administration of Justice, also the lawyers, also the prosecutors, that the documents that enter the administrations, that enter the courts, are still in Catalan, because it will hardly come out a document in Catalan if the one that enters the castle. And we need to get different insecurities out, we need to get out of the comfort zone, and that's why we want to work with universities, with legal practice schools, because the català is seen as a close language and as a language in the service of the Administration of Justice. And we would like to hold them, which, in fact, we have, as demonstrated by their group's vote in the general policy debate, to ask and demand – I would say – that the Catalan is a request at the time of being able to opt for the Administration of Justice in Catalonia. What less! Now it's a merit and it's obvious that it's all, all insufficient. And when we talk about Catalan judgments, Catalan judgments, we're referring exactly to the same thing you say. You said a word that I liked very much: "congestion. Yes, sir. We have a problem with congestion in our courts, and do you know why this is so many times? That's why, often, judges come to practice in Catalonia, at the first they can, go; leave Catalonia and leave the jutjats vacant for three or four months, which is the time it is wheat to cover a plaza. What's that supposed to mean? Litigation of subjects in the courts, and that means injustice to the city's servants. You say: "You make'see that the oppositions of justice or of the Justicia Administration are so unattractive. So, look, maybe there's something you can see that's seen as a little administration, say... or if not, say as the Greek says, right? , with a lot of democratic adjustments to do. The Greek report reminds every year of the Spanish State that it has to make..., a report that..., the Greek report that it does is to portray the Spanish State when it says that it is not named as it should be named the courts of the higher institutions or that, for example, the prosecution does not know that – democraticly – it thinks of the government. This means that it is a justice that is perceived politically, and that we cannot afford, and here there is a great responsibility of the Spanish State and that is what we see every day. Therefore, perhaps one of the reasons for which Catalonia is not opposed enough is also because there is not the prestige that it should have at the time of being able to see the Administration of Justice as fully transparent, as fully complementing the function of separation of powers. And what we want, as I gave it to the audience, to try to reverse it, is, therefore, this, to foster vocations of justice and of illiterates. Despite all this, we must be able to put on the table that opposing the Administration of Justice is a clear service to the city, a service that seeks to approximate justice to the city of Catalonia. And the logic suggests that if the judges and prosecutors or lawyers of the Administration of Justice are Catalans they will hardly leave. Therefore, it suggests the logic that congestion will decrease, because nothing makes one judge of Catalonia leave to exercise in another space, in another area of the Spanish State. That's the only reason why it's worth these scholarships that we're actually implementing and looking for different formulas to be effective, because, as you said, opposing doesn't have to be a privilege of a few, opposing it has to be a privilege, if we say so, that you can access most of the citizenship that you think you have and that you have the ability to do so. And we're working on this. We're talking about digitization, basic and important digitization. I remember: only 3_million euros from the Next Generation funds for the implementation of modernisation as it is in the Spanish State. So, everything we've done, we've done in the lung, and we're gonna need to keep doing it in the lung, because it's not much for the man, and we still have some judicial bodies that just need to implement justice. And in the criminal field, we'll start doing the year you see, with effort, like the ones that make Tortosa, where the new judicial office has already been implemented, where there are already common services for the judicial operators of the Tortosa courts, and how we carry twenty-three judicial parties where the new judicial office has already been established. When we can implement good practices of agility, for example, to the jutjats of the Bisbal de l'Empordà, which from here I want to take advantage of – to all the functional ones that work there – to congratulate them. Therefore, all this is done in spite of the scarce resources, despite the lack of support we have from the Spanish Administration. And when you talk about what equipment is, remember that we need much more justice than we have, but we can't create more. Despite all this, we have created nine judicial units in Catalonia, the year 21, in Catalonia, but I need to help us to claim these 6.2_million euros that have not yet subscribed to us by the State and that I have told you to attend: let us hope that if there are also assumptions in the Spanish State, that now the governing partners have agreed that there is no such thing as a possible way of giving us these 6.2_million euros. The good that we can pay the judicial fees that are provided for because it is giving to free justice, to justice that makes more than 400,000 lawyers and prosecutors to our country. Therefore, a proximity service, a social justice service and a service that we want to do is to improve its subscription, its compensation, increasing in a two-per-cent increase the remuneration of lawyers of the turn of offices. And lots of other equipment, like Lleida's, like Vic's, like Martorell's. At the same time we can talk about it, but despite the fact that resources are who they are, we are pushing them as much as we can, because we move the service to the citizenry, we move the service to the proximity and I am sure, Mr. Viñuali, that we will have it side by side to do a better justice, as demonstrated by the fact that this inquiry has been made and we have had the opportunity to talk to us. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.25.0	Then has the word, in the turn of the reply, the deputy Mr Rubén Viñuales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.26.0	Thank you. Thank you, President. Counselor, to have skills is to exercise responsibilities. And to exercise responsibilities is to assume them. And when you make decisions, if you sound good or bad, or if you don't make decisions, you have to say, "It's my fault. We have jurisdiction in the matter of justice; we have jurisdiction in nine sections and we are judged. Why don't you say, "Do we need money? Why do you have to run into someone else's fault again? I remember that once, when I was a young man, the first job so worthy I held was a banker, a box, right? And it was still coded, and I learned coded. And then one day I ask him a question to the in charge, and he says to me: "Oh, this is a LDC. And I: "A LDCO? I say, "I haven't seen that code. I jo looking..., and says: "No, it does not come out; it is" passing the dead to another", pe, eme, a, o. This is what is constantly being done, not just from his department, from his advice, but from everyone, and, frankly, we have a lot of self-government, we have skills. That the other courts haven't paid them since the Department of Justice? And there's one about Tarragona, that we have a comparative heaviness. That the City of Justice has been paid or the other Vendrell courts have been paid with money...? No, the General's paid for it, because it's his competition. Why do they now say, "No, they give us money? Look, I'm so glad we're on the diagnosis of malalty. But what about the remix? You rule, you rule the righteousness of this land. You don't have to tell me... match, perfect. You have to tell me: "And these are the solutions. Or with the least: "These are the ideas I have in order to solve it. We know that no one is perfect, infallible and that there are no magic wands. And it seems good to me; we must flee from populisms. But at least you have to say something. He's only talked about one of the scholarships, which he's already done in Spain. He spoke to me, unfortunately, of few fears of what we have dealt with; I suppose he will do so now. He talked a lot about the use of català in jutjats. This week I've already been asked, outside the Provincial Court, I've already been asked for the use. Listen, it's true, the català isn't used too much in jutjats. There's a lot of motius – there's a lot of motius. But, man, to say that one of the motives is because justice is politicized and that it is a bad image of justice on the part of Spain... « Really? [[The timer laughs.]] I don't care what I'm arguing about, if I tell her the truth. Anyone who is not abducted knows perfectly well that this is deeply absurd. But it seems that you never want to recognize that they are fallible, that they can be wrong; always the fault of everything is of Spain, the extinction of dinosaurs surely was also the fault of Spain. I can't – absolutely – agree that one of the reasons we don't have a tradition of opposition in the judiciary and prosecution of Catalonia is that Spain politicizes justice; no, there are no people who agree. He also talked about digitization. That now it is also guilt that there are 3_million Next Generation fonts for digitization when we are talking about this topic years and years, we are also concerned. Miri, there are situations, on the subject of digitalization, that every day they are, in fact, kafkians. They're supposed to ask you to present it telematically, but then you have to take it on paper in a few days. If you don't put it on paper, they'll keep you out of it. This goes to jutjats– to Vendrell, for example. It can't be. The one we have to do, Mrs Ciuro... And I think you and I are doing well, and we have a chance to share, for the profession, right? For the lives we have to suffer as battle attorneys. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I think we can agree on a lot of issues. But please ask them for a sincere exercise. If you say: "We have not done well, it has not done well so far, but I want to improve, and all this is going on this way, I will be at your side to listen to you and, if I agree, I will not only support you but thank you. But I'm going back to say it – until a while ago, the economic advisor was, he's already gone, you see how justice went. [[relays]] , you see how it went – insist – insist – because it is very important, absolutely important: if we do not invest in justice, what we will have will be injustices. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.27.0	To answer, you have the word "Justice Counsel."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.28.0	Thank you, very honorable President. I forgot I got a little ahead of myself before I went up. Mr. Viñuales, we don't sweep things. I told him that we have a problem with Catalan justice, and I did not accuse him that there is no judicial transparency in Spain. I said that what we are doing is working to break down inefficiencies, to get out of comfort, that we can't stay told is that we don't get sensations in català if we don't have it on our side to pedagogy the resources we have. It has nothing to do with judicial transparency or the separation of powers, which does affect, and very much, the Spanish State. But I don't say it, I say it every year – and you know it, and so does the Spanish Government – or I say it the report of the recently dictated Council of Europe, which highlights the political persecution that has taken place in Spain with political leaders. So, that's not what I'm saying, that's what third-party impartials say, and that's when they get shamed in the Spanish State. And that too must be felt and must be rectified. And we are still with the General Council of the Judiciary to stop and without being able to renew, starting with its president, who does not resign, to facilitate it, for example. So the faults are hard. And, unfortunately, justice in Catalonia is driving it forward with the department's skills, because we exercise them. The only thing we ask is that the deal of transfers is complete; a deal of transfers that says: "You have competence, and when you build equipment for it, we will pay for it. Conxo, so subscribe to them. And, in addition, it updates criteria, because we have 2015 criteria that do not include – attention – digitalization. So, what we want to pay for is the work, like we're in the 20th century, and they don't take into account the expenditure we've made on information and communication technologies in the justices of Catalonia, where things are fanciful. That he's not a fan of all right? So surely, like everything else. And it's best to do more pedagogy in time to be able to serve what are the new technologies..., or the information technologies, because they're no longer new technologies. And the fact of the scholarships, I announced to him that we would do it in the appearance that we held here in Parliament, and, in fact, we are doing it. Just like I told her the media would be a tip. Because we cannot trust all that justice can have judgments that in Marxin, and therefore we must be able to have time to summon these oppositions and we must be able to have time for these judgments, in Catalonia, to remain there on a permanent basis. Meanwhile, we need to take advantage of the tools they give us, such as putting together alternative conflict resolution mechanisms – mediation and arbitrage – to put them on the order of the day, to put them on the stand, to pay better for their professionals, and because the citizenry sees that going to mediation is quick, efficient and positive. Because that relationship that works out or agrees through mediation is much easier to recover than the one that judges a judge with a verdict of guilt or sanction on one side. Therefore, as I said, it helps us to complete the transfer agreements; it makes it easy to exercise our powers, because, in the end, the institutional collaboration and the functioning of the State that you are happy to have, which is this state of the autonomous communities, may be right. And when they say that we are the most decentralized, they say: "Yes, because more is the state that better recognizes the financing of transferred competitions. Therefore, we have to work with this and we have to do day-to-day politics, like what this government wants to do, in favour of all citizens, whether or not you are independent, and to be able to put us in the band of citizens when this government lacks resources for the Administration of Justice. Our job is to ask the economic advisor, as well as fem, to increase the match. Hers is to help us; as, in fact, the Valencian councillor, of the Socialist Party of the Valencian Country, who set herself at the expense of the hour, without doubt, to claim the taxes that are actually due. This is to make a common front, because one thing does not take away the other: to be able to give good justice to our administrations goes through well-funded justice and institutional loyalty in matters of finance; that it is completing the transfers in order to be able to give this better service that we want. And the fact that there are judges and prosecutors or lawyers from Catalonia, that no one is saying: it's not politics, it's work for decongestion. That it's good politics to serve the city? Sure. But we can't avoid not doing it, or we can't stop doing it, because to continue these emptinesses – you have recognized it – to the judicial institutions..., it makes the damage very difficult for us to accumulate liabilities in the courts of Catalonia. A justice, as you have rightly said – and I recognize it – is an agile justice to the service of legal certainty and social and economic progress, which is ultimately what we are working for, and I am sure we will find ourselves there. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.29.0	Let's get to the 15th point of the order of the day. [[Asking the Government about the management of agrarian areas]] [[300-00053/13]] The question to the Government about the management of the agrarian spaces, which has presented the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar. And, to make the presentation of the inquiry, has the word the deputy Pau Juvillà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.30.0	Thanks, so-so. At present, the global food system is characteristic for the control of the food chain in conditions of oligopolies by a few multinationals of the agro-industry and the large food distribution. A fact that is reinforced in the cover growing of land on the part of the funds of reversal and the great agro-industry that move and snatch the small and medium pages, and that is not what we say. The Commission's interpretative communication on the acquisition of agricultural land and the European Union's Law says, in 2017, that "there is a concern that the areas, each smaller, of arable land become vulnerable to speculators or unscrupulous investors. Fears have been expressed before the increase of land concentration and speculation on it, and before the negative effects on food security, occupation, environment, land quality and rural development. The Catalan countries have become a process of capitalization, concentration and industrialization of agriculture, which is associated with land grabbing. With the 2008 financial crisis, in which there was an unexpected increase in food prices on a global scale, global finance agents discovered a new market to redirect actions that were no longer profitable in a failed real estate sector. Large businesses and investment funds have predicted the effects that climate change can have and are inverted into land and water, two essential benefits to be able to live. This October's Direct – we spoke to the previous plenary – said that in Catalonia most of the plots that range between 2 and 10 hectares, which are around 25,000, represent eleven per cent of the agricultural area used, the UAA, and, in change, 1,616 represent 36,41 per cent of the UAA. 25.000, the eleven_per_cent of the UAA, 1,600, thirty-sis_per_cent of the UAA. The primary sector has long called for the attention of the great foundations of capital, but the difference now is the intensity in which actors without connection to the territory are interested in the camp. According to an investigation by the Mundubat Foundation and the magazine Food Sovereignty, the Spanish state has more than thirty sources that invest in agriculture and food, one appreciates a remarkable presence of foreign investments. At the length of the last decade, investment funds have also moved from the stock exchange of large agricultural and agricultural multinationals. A speculative process that is causing the decline of the family model for the benefit of intensive and industrial use. Such an anti-capitalist body as the European Economic and Social Committee might be issuing an Alert Opinion of 2015 on land grabbing, i.e. the application of a policy that did not lead to a concentration of land, but to a transition from large agricultural holdings using industrial means to small production units that facilitated the strengthening of family farming, which would also guarantee food self-sufficiency. In Catalonia we find ourselves before a very delicate situation of access to the earth. In 2009, Gini's index, which is an index indicating equality or inequality in the structure of the land's property, was 0.585, that is, the land, our land, is every time in less hands. This descent of farms, keeping the agricultural surface almost constant, sets out to manifest a process of land concentration in the later years. It's obvious that it's a land reform. It is obvious that there must be a land reform, and that this land reform must be based on the principle of the social functioning of the land, so that the possession and use of the land must be subordinate to the right of the land for which it works, for whom it lies and for whom it lives and resides with its family. The land is a natural good and must be in the common service. The land is neither a commodity nor a commodity. The ownership of the soil and the production of food are a strategic element of Community interest and cannot continue in the hands of markets and speculation, and in this, the Generality must have an absolutely active role, without apology or delay in its defence. It is urgent and I do not allow delay to stop the speculation and the predatory model of the agrarian spaces. We must avoid the speculation of the soil and guarantee the perpetual use of the agricultural soil facilitating the access of people who want to devote themselves to page activity, avoiding that the great tenors and fund of reversal are doing with the control of the lands moving the small and medium family page. For this reason, the creation of a land bank for agricultural use is vital. We must push without delay the Law 3/2019, of 17 June, of agrarian thicks, with a much more ambitious regulation, than went further. We need to effectively incorporate the land and rights of public ownership, but more importantly, we need to ensure that the Administration can participate in the storm law and retract with specific foundations to do so. It's very simple, that's what Teodoro Flores said, the sons, the father, I forgive, of Flores Magón, in the Ayala plateau of 1911. So simple is the earth here to work. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.31.0	The words of the Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda, Mrs Teresa Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.32.0	Thank you. Well, thank you very much, President. Too late to all and so to all. In the first place, allow me, Pau, to give you all the support in this trial cheats of the month of... [[applause]] of the next month of November. Well, Congressman Juvillà, as you know, the problem with the management of agricultural areas is a situation that goes from far away, goes many years back and has its cause, among many other things, in the lack of definition of these areas, as well as the lack of definition of the protection figures to be applied. You talked about it a while ago. That is precisely why, precisely because of this, this Parliament, the Parliament of Catalonia, approved the last parliamentary term, on the initiative of the parliamentary groups, the Law 3/2019, of 17 June, the law known as the Law of the Agrarian Spaces, which, in other words, covered the votes of the parliamentary groups of Ciutadans, Junts per Catalunya, Esquerra, PSC - Units, Catalonia En Comú Podem, with the abstention of the People's Party and the non-participation of its group. The popularly known as LEA, the Law of Agrarian Spaces, therefore, forms part of those laws that we call strategic, not because the name does the thing, but because, in reality, it is a strategic law that, driven by all and all, must represent and will represent, without doubt, an important adventure in the agri-food sector of our country; policies, in short, extremely necessary for what it does to cohesion and equal territorial opportunities to our country. I remember, or I don't seem to be wrong if I said I was going to say it at the time, right? This law, I said, when we approved it, it is a law that can claim like the law of the country, it is of those laws that we should have made clear that it is a law of the country because it is essential for the country, because the pages and pages, because the branches and branches are also indispensable just for our country. Because we want a country knows, we want a cohesive country, we want sustainable, we want rich, and we want plural. That said, it is not surprising, however, that the Government's actions on the management of agricultural areas have as reference, precisely, the Law 3/2019, of 17 June, we say, of agricultural areas, which proposes the regulation of the protection of agricultural areas in our country. And he does it the next way – and you pointed out some tricks. One, and very important, as areas that have the purpose of producing food, and that's important, huh? That is to say, that debate – and could set a thousand examples – of food sovereignty versus energy sovereignty, food sovereignty versus... No, no. Food sovereignty needs it as we need so many and so many sobrieties. Therefore, as in areas where they aim to produce food. Two, on the mark of an economically viable agricultural activity, because it is, following this model that Mr Juvilà also told us. Three, exercised in a sustainable way, as it cannot be otherwise. Four, with the time to settle the highest possible level of food sovereignty, as it did before. And five, to give also compliment to the sustainable food goal that marks us United Nations. We could say many, on the second day, objective 2, which is: we are zero in relation to food production, and 12, responsible consumption and production for what it does to the use of natural resources in the process of food production. Thus, the protection of these areas must establish conditions to facilitate the continuity of the agricultural activity, the branch activity, and also the forestry activity. And in fact we articulate it – and Congressman Juvillà also spoke about it – in three elements. The first, the land plan, extremely important because it is the territory that also makes decisions, which is in the grip of decisions, that is this governance that we always demand. The second, too, has spoken, and in fact, I think it is the epithet of this inquiry, that it is the register of land in waste, the bank of land, let's say as we say. I, the third, the implementation and modernization of the regadiu, extremely important. A score of all three, and with that I finish this first intervention. To begin the agricultural sector plan and specific agricultural sector plans, and we will now explain the difference. Now, at this point, we're not working on the methodology, are we? , the methodology to be able to deploy and establish which conditions should be drafted. I'll explain. They aim to establish areas of protection of agronomically more valuable and productive soils, those that we would call class 1 to understand us, and the protection of areas of high agricultural value, such as an essential space, essential for the production of food, but also benefits and services for society, since they all contribute – these spaces – contribute to the preservation and the better of many values, among them, for example, landscape and environmental values associated with, for example, areas of the eye, also cultural spaces, areas of development, areas of biodiversity conservation, and natural heritage, obviously. But it also has the objective of keeping people in the territory, this territorial cohesion that we often claim, reducing depopulation, which somehow ensures the management of this objective, and allows us to establish a certain territorial and social balance in our country. Basically, on the basis of an economic activity, which is the agricultural activity, which is the case for us, but which is dynamic, which is diversified..., which allows the continuity of the agricultural enterprises of the primary sector also the enterprises of other sectors of the economy. Land register. This is a courageous action, let me just say, that they want, first of all, to make food production available, to make food production available, the country's maximum agricultural area. The abandonment of agricultural activity is an element, the aging of its activities and the lack of generational replenishment is obvious, and this must not be very conscious, which has led our country to stop growing in the last twenty years, in the last two decades, around 100,000 hectares. For the last 20 years. One of the reasons for the lack of generational replenishment – and the honourable Member was also talking about it – may have its origins in the fact that young people are obviously more motivated by other sectors of the economy – I think this will change radically, but for the moment we are not in this process – but also because the people who want to dedicate themselves to it are young. Remember that in the agricultural sector you are young until forty years old; in fact, it should be that for you, always, but in the agricultural sector it is until forty years old, they do not have the possibility to access these resources many times and obviously, it is not profitable. We could talk, in addition, about other problems that don't come to the case now because I don't have time. Therefore, making land available to those people who want to start farming is what they want this register of land in disuse, which must be a first step, a very important first step towards more ambitious initiatives to manage these agricultural areas. Initially it is a matter of recovering land in waste, moreover, it is land that is absolutely abandoned, or not cultivated – let me dwell on it – to make it available to those who have the need to start their agricultural activity, or to grow, or to ensure, obviously, their living in such a way that it facilitates this access in a simple and objective way, obviously, it allows them to secure their living, or otherwise it can start again in the agricultural activity. Why do we find all kinds of people, huh? , people who see the sector for the first time or people who already see the sector but who obviously lack land. The implementation of regadius, which in any case I will talk about later because I don't have time. In short, and to close this first intervention, of which it is concerned, first, is to protect the agrarian spaces. Protecting them to give the future to the companies that work there, because if we give them the future, we will make the maintenance of the agricultural activity easier. That, say, is easy, huh? If we give the future, we will keep the agricultural activity, the production of food – important – and also – very important – the generational replenishment and the continuity of these enterprises. That's not enough, so to speak. This package has to be accompanied by a good distribution network that recognizes the good product – and this is also important and the company Juvilà also talked about it –, the products of proximity and, therefore, of much more sustainable production, that accompanied it also with a good price, a good price that ensures the viability of our companies. Says in another way, that the producer can make a good living, because this will give the definite point to the preservation of the agricultural spaces and also to the continuity of the future. In short, the law of agrarian spaces... that certainly came late, but it came when we were there. We said it in his approval and I come back to say it today: it's a law, a country tool, a country tool, and now it feels more like it than ever again. It's a tool because it puts in the hands of people different instruments that we're now deploying and that we're going to have to put even more the sienna, because everything that hangs on this new tool has to help us ensure that you ask, this mobilization of the agricultural space, the defense, in short, of the rural world as this space generating wealth, but above all a space generating opportunities for our country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.33.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, has the word, in the turn of the line, the deputy Mr Pau Juvillà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.34.0	We're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're... Madam will advise, first of all, to thank her for her solidarity. There are many here and many of us who are patenting repression, simply to express our democratic rights. And I think that... like Parliament, we have to be proud of power among all of us and give these shows to each other. Thank you. You're right, you're right. Law 3/2019 is an adventure, it's a small step, it's a step, of course, but it's a small step that, if we compare it with other laws, for us there's a lot more to go on, and not a state, let's say, socially advanced, but laws as can be the Galician Junta or as can be Navarre, where governments more conservative than what we're supposed to have done here – we believe – more ambitious laws of land protection. So, yes, it is a good law, obviously, but we say it: we need to deepen it a lot, a lot. It is necessary to create a regulation that deploys it and that deepens it; otherwise, we remain basically in a mobilising law, with a lesser degree than, as I said, other laws of much less socially advanced autonomy as could be ours. Therefore, in the general policy debate we entered some proposals that were accepted and negotiated to try to modify a part of this will to deepen and give power to the land law; decide that the Administration could also make the control pocket on the agricultural areas that are being abandoned; try to give more content to the land register. Therefore, we did start to walk and give more power to this law, because at the end – you said – it is the production of food, it is the generational replenishment, but above all it is also the certainty that who wants to be paid and paged can always be paid and paged. Who wants to be, who wants to continue the work that their parents have done, their opinions or who wants to join... The other day we were told that France has a twenty, a thirty_per_cent new incorporation of people into pages. Whoever wants to do this can do it, and that's only possible if we guarantee that the land is cleared for speculation, that the land is cleared for speculation, and that the land is where it works. And that's all made up. The other day we spoke on the rural agenda, when it was presented..., it was very often given other examples of Europe, as may be the French case; it is certainly a case of a paradigmatic defense of the rural environment and of the land, of this rural agenda, of this protection that is given in this medium. And there's one thing that's the SAFER land bank, and that's already invented. SAFER also has this right, which we understand is very important, stormy and retractive, which they use very little, huh? – that they use very little – but it is very effective at time to control price and avoid speculation. Therefore, what we are today is: a general, large, deep labour reform, which allows the defence of the small and medium-sized pagesia and also of the small and medium-sized ramaderia. We did... we made proposals to the Agriculture and Ramaderia Commission trying to limit the number of units, from UPPs to barns so that the macro-farms would not be set up and the small and medium-sized branch could be protected. We did so here in this inquiry asking that you protect the small and medium-sized pages of the land, of the inversional foundations that are basically grabbing and speculating the land, because they have little interest in working for food sovereignty, but we said to him, "We can go a lot further. It's got to go a lot further than the law says and what's going on so far. And so, for us, it's imperative that this longer year starts with a little pass, starts... because it has to go a lot further. It begins with a small passage, and this passage makes sense, among others, that the Administration, as it already predicted in its day, has right of storm and retreat on the land, all the agricultural land that can be sold or that can be placed on the market. So, we said it before: it's all invented, it's invented the plan of Ayala, so, in this distribution of land for the people who worked for it, and we say it: the land must be for those who work for it, for those who live there, and for those who do this their means of life. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.35.0	And then there's the word "Constellar Teresa Jordà."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.36.0	Thank you, Congressman. I share – share – everything you expose us here. In fact, I think we've explained in many occasions what is the model that this department has when we talk about an agrarian model, and it's the model of small farms, family farms. This does not mean that we also see the reality that exists in our country, and the reality that has also existed in the agrarian world, that does not know, please us more or less. In fact, many times when we talk about the twenty-three percent of GDP in the agricultural sector, we say, agri-food, obviously, if we don't talk about the pig we wouldn't be talking about these dimensions, and we don't talk about a very concrete pig. This is a reality, which more than it gives work and occupation to many families – there would be much to say and would form part of another debate – but this is the reality of our country, which I think we would not be aware of if we did, is what it is. In fact, when we were younger, far less than forty years old, and we fought some against globalization, we should also say, we should want to say something about what happened next. But in any case, this is the situation, this is the reality. The only thing I disagree with you is that you say that with the law of agricultural areas there is not enough. The law of agrarian spaces is a step... Surely at the time of doing this rule and of deploying it – and you, obviously, have not spoken more than once because I know that it is an issue that the questioner, who worries him, as I understand that most Members of this House – must be brave. The rule has to be a good one and, more importantly, we are already finishing the limit to deploy it. I mean, we've got it... actually, we're finishing it. You know you're consulting at these times with the agricultural organizations that obviously also have a lot to say. But we must be extremely brave in all its parts, not just in the land register. Now, the approval of the Law, the approval of the law of the agrarian spaces, is an earlier and later in our sector. It's before and after. That is to say, a servant was already on the agenda that she had left us – with many deures, by the way – the Serret Councilwoman. There was already the law of agrarian spaces. It had to be deployed and obviously it had to be done. And it's a law with a lot of consent. And it's a law that if we'd had it before we'd gotten away with a lot of trouble. And surely now we will speak so much or so little respect for the agricultural sector in our country in this hemisphere, that every time, look at it, we talk more about it. And that's not just proud of a waitress, it's just that the hemicula in general and also the country, I want to think. But surely we would talk about it in another way, because we would have a lot of problems. Because this law helps us and regulates us or it helped us and it would have regulated many things that now, so to speak, from this cry the creature, let me hide here. That's to say, let me put it in value, sense of doubt, this law. Now, like any other law, if the rule is not valid, if with the rule we do not know, say, how little it will serve. And in this sense, I take his glove because we have to be extremely brave. And on the subject of land register we have a lot to say. But it's clear that, in any case, it's not a small step. The abandonment of agricultural activity – and we talked about it a long time ago – is one of the reasons. Also, and he's very curious and you're sure he's been through, feeling any young person, coming or not coming from the sector, who says, "I can't join because I can't find land. And that's happening and that's happening. And this situation, we follow all our consciences, is not reversed overnight. If we say now that this is a one-day reverse for another, we'd be deceiving. I mean, there's no sense in it. We won't change the one-day system for the other. Now, we have to be able to put all the necessary tools in place so that this is reversed and that we can't... because we can't either, it's not that we can't, it's not that we can't afford the luxury that no young person, that no person who wants to devote himself to producing food in our country at a time of climate emergency, that wants to devote himself to producing food without, good, sure, close access to the earth. I repeat, and that's happening. As a result, we must be sure that this regulation, especially on the side of the land bank, is able and able to solve this problem. Add many ways, many, that you know and now I won't explain why I don't have time, as the strategic plan of country food, as the orderly decree, which limits the heads of beasts – this we introduced a few days ago, you also know it. We will also approve it in a few weeks. We already have the agricultural organizations lined up, so to speak. It's been a while, obviously, but we also have to limit these big farms, which every day make their work better for sustainability, but it obviously doesn't help us to consolidate the model we want, which is this family model and proximity model. Thank you so much, because I've run out of time. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-19-1501.37.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. And with that we suspend the session until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock. Thank you very much.
