ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.1.0	Good morning. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let's resume the session. [[Congratulation and condolence of male violence and compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and policies of acquittal of migrants and expression of condolence of victims of covid-19]] Before we begin, I will mention the 3,301 reprisals, the 306 deaths in the Mediterranean by day, 1 feminicides and 21,263 victims of the coward. [[Agenda debate and investiture vote of MEP Pere Aragonès Garcia, candidate proposed to the Presidency of the Generality (continuation)]] [[201-00001/13]] That said, and in accordance with Article 4.3 of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and of the Government, the proposal of March 26 took place the presentation, before the Ple de la Cambra, of the government program of the candidate for the Presidency of the Generality, and since it did not fulfil the majority required to be invested, in compliment of the law mentioned correspond now to initiate a _second debate and a _second vote in which, in this case, the simple majority will warm up. The candidate is Mr. Pere Aragonès Garcia, who, from the very beginning, has the word. Forward. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.2.0	Many thanks, very honorable President of Parliament. Honourable members of the outgoing Government, benevolute companies and companies, benevolute deputies, benevolute deputies, authorities present at the Parliament of Catalonia, representatives of the Generality and representatives of the Parliament of Catalonia, citizens and citizens of Catalonia, very good morning to all. Very good morning to all of you from all over the country. I compare before all of you, addressing the country's assembly, to present again, in this second debate, my candidacy for the presidency of the Generality. I do so with the tranquillity of knowing that we have offered a project of government ambitions, able to boost the sackage that the country needs, in the debate of the past divendres. A project of governance and future, based on the great consensus that exists in Catalan society, and that, despite the difficulties that may exist, we must be able to translate into an agreement of broad governance – as wide as possible – starting from the indispensable unity of independence and, from here on, extend our hand to all those who defend, from sovereignism, the freedom of the people under pressure and exiles and the referendum to decide the future politics of Catalonia. The first part of today's speech will be devoted to reaffirming myself in the goals and commitments I presented the past diverdres. I will do so very briefly and as a synthesis, because I believe that the discrepancies that exist in this area can, therefore, prevent the investiture, are minimal, or, if not, do not form part of the great arguments for not trusting those formations with which I want to govern. I want the new Republican Generality and its president to be centered on the emergencies and social inequalities that we live in and that the pandemic has made worse. I want the new Republican Generality and its president to be centered on driving the socio-economic transformation we need for a country that is fairer, smarter, greener and more feminist. And I want the new Republican Government and its President to focus on resolving the political conflict with the Spanish State, based on amnesty and the right to self-determination. And it's here, as we move from the stage of repression to the stage of conflict resolution, where it seems to us that there are more difficulties. And so, I want to focus on the thick of the exhibition to clarify my point of view and share my proposal, to avoid doubts and try to find that the differences are not insurmountable. I am convinced that we can pose and that we will agree; it is a question of voluntariness. Because we share goals. Because we have folded forward the country as never before in these last years. And precisely for this reason it would not be understood that the new stage that the country needs to open, that the stage led by the new Republican Generality was not able to add with the same strength that we have done before. I'll start, then. I explained to them how I understand the Catalan nation, how I understand citizenship and catalanity, the neural role that they play for me and have to play concepts that are widely shared by this society, such as the fact that Catalonia is a nation and that we are a people's sun. I presented my references and republican principles and values: freedom and equality, ecology and feminism, the emancipating force of culture and all European time. I spoke to them about all these concepts to explain that, in the background, what I am moving is to make Catalonia a country that esteems its people and that is fixed as priority the welfare and happiness of its citizens. That's all I'm soft on. That's why I want the new Republican Generality, to push a new stage to transform the country. Before, as we have said enough, we have a set of crises that rise and need to be addressed in their set. The health crisis, which already threatens with a fourth wave that forces us all to act with the utmost responsibility on the coming days. The immense social and economic crisis, which has only made the pre-existing inequalities worse in the case of Catalan society and which, in the background, this is the reality that is dividing Catalonia. The emotional crisis, very strong, provoked by the measures to stop the covid-19 and that have had a very great impact on our youth and on our great people. And, finally, I also spoke about the democratic crisis, caused by the inability of the Spanish State to hear that through repression and permanent justice the political conflict with Catalonia will not be resolved. In the face of all these crises, I believe it is time to open a new stage; to open the stage of the Republican Generality, configured from the unequivocal majority of left and progress, unequivocally favorable to amnesty and self-determination, and also to the unequivocally independent majority that has been represented in this Parliament. The first step to make this new Republican Generality possible, we made it come to an agreement with the Popular Unity Candidate. A party which, the last legislature, legitimately decided, after the investiture, to remain in opposition. And now we have managed to work together on measures for a government program. And that, no doubt, is very good news. We have the historic opportunity to have all independence compromised with the country's government. That is why, as I made public at the first session of the plenary, I do not want to miss the opportunity to thank again the position of the People's Unity Candidature and its commitment to help us open a new stage. And what we've done with the CUP, as I said to you, and as I made it clear to the insider of this speech, we need to be able to do with the combination of political forces that want us to overcome the crisis in a transformative claus and that they know that the outcome of the conflict with the State goes through amnesty and the exercise of the right to self-determination. And we're bound to do it together for Catalonia. Because there are more things that unite us than not separate us. Because we carry a lot of folded paths and we still have the most important part of the path to be able to pick up. Because independence is plural and so they show the results of the 14th of February, as plural is our country; they also show how citizens have placed their trust in each of us. And this result, which also incorporates that for the first time we have exceeded 50 percent of the votes of the independence forces, asks us all and marks the path of the agreements we have before us. I am also firmly convinced that in the democratic resolution of the conflict, through amnesty and the exercise of the right to self-determination, we can find there the complicity and compromise of political forces that, while not being independent, can compromise to generate this mark of solution. Because, as Pepe Mujica taught us, we want a political life oriented to concertation, to sum up, because we really want to transform reality. That is why I hope that all of these accomplices can join the new Republican Generality. A Generality that governs for everyone – for everyone. A generality committed to responding before social emergence, to transforming the economy and to resolving the conflict with the State. In a very short and schematic way, in order to respond to the social emergency, I committed myself to promoting, within the framework of the first hundred days of government, a social security plan, equipped with 700_million euros, to encourage young people to contract, to encourage the hiring of majors of forty-five years old, to rescue families and fight the extreme poor, and to reduce the waiting lists for dependency programmes. I committed myself to continuing to deploy help to accompany the autonomes and small and medium-sized enterprises and the workers most affected by the restrictions to stop the covid-19. I committed myself to strengthening the welfare state with measures such as the gratuitousness of the zero-to-three-year stage, and to making an alliance to get the resources we need to transform our health system. I committed myself to transforming the social welfare system and the whole system of cures, because I stopped being the weakest pot of the welfare state, and to creating an emotional health plan. And I committed myself to promoting a new social contract and to ensuring rights such as housing, access to water, energy or connectivity, and that everyone enjoys a minimum amount of income to live with dignity and enjoy a good daily life. All these are commitments to respond to the emergencies caused by covid-19. But, in parallel, I also exposed how I want to transform the country, how I want to drive a product model change that has as its priority the generation of prosperity and well-being for everyone. I spoke to them about the Catalan prosperity agenda and the need to act from the Generality as an authentic entrepreneurial state. I spoke to you about how we should be able to take advantage of the European foundations Next Generation to boost the strategic sectors of the future: to boost the economy for life, digitalisation in all areas of society, the economic transition and the knowledge society; how we would create the Next Generation commission; how we would recover the University and Research Department, and how we would create the Climate Action Council. I also spoke to them about the need to fully incardinate the rural agenda with the urban agenda. I explained to them how I wanted to create a council of feminists, to place again, at the center of public policies, the perspective of gender and the need to end with all the forms of discrimination that exist in our society. And among many other things, I talked about the role that language and culture have to play in this transformation of the country we want to push. This is, in short, in a lot of synthesis, the government project, the country project that I explained the past diverdres. And I ended up focusing, as I will now, on the proposal I defend to return the conflict with the Spanish State to politics, to seek a solution to the conflict, to achieve amnesty and self-determination. There is someone who can have the tempt to try to reduce this strategy to a project made and thought only for independence. It's more than just reality. If I'm independent, it's because I want to improve people's lives, to make life easier for everyone, for everyone, for all the citizens of Catalonia, independently of their origin, of the language they speak, of how they feel, of how they think or their administrative situation and vote. In other words: to serve our country, to care for the needy, to combat inequalities, to combat in particular the effects of the crisis, to improve the living conditions of our fellow citizens, to prioritise the social agenda and, at the same time, to promote economic recovery so as to create wealth and create jobs of better quality and longer duration. And all this for the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans and Catalans, who have the same rights and the same rights, above all, to have an education system, a health system, a social service system, a new public mobility service, etcetera, in the best conditions and fairness. They are not my words, but I subscribe to them; they are words spoken by President Carles Puigdemont in this Parliament, in the question of trust held on 28 September 2016. A few words that note that from independence we are proposing a project for the country's conjunct with the vocation of change, of better, of transformation and of future. We are ahead of a country project, directed at the country's side, which is not against anyone, which seeks everyone to win, and as we show with our daily political action, more people will convince us of the need for a Catalan republic that is closely related to the rest of the European Union and the world. We've never been this close to getting it. We've never been so many, and we've never been as far as October 1 and 3, 2017. And until today independence had been so strong in the Parliament of Catalonia. And this puts us in an ideal position to change the dynamic, to overcome the current blockade, to recover the initiative, to recover the leadership, to make possible a Catalan republic that lasts forever. And the first step to do that is to vitamin trusts and water the toilets. And I'll do it myself. The citizenry asks us to work in a positive position, to generate dynamic agreement, to lead the exits to a situation in which the State, at the moment, has only responded with repression and with the blockade. I think we would all agree that we need a shared diagnosis, and from here we can design a joint strategy. And to make a shared diagnosis, I think we can start from what we did well in October 2017 and from everything we need to improve. I am convinced that, among others, our forts went to associate the idea of independence with democracy, for the alliance between institutions, civil society and citizens, and for the very overflowing popular that the U of October meant. And, on the other hand, I think it is obvious that we did not manage to mobilise the citizens of Catalonia who wanted to vote that no, that we did not know how to counter the offensive of the State and that there was no international recognition indispensable for becoming a State. This, very synthetically and partially necessary, is my diagnosis and the equally schematic proposal to move forward, to place amnesty and the right to self-determination at the centre of the political agenda, with a national agreement bringing together all political formations, institutions and entities for the freedom of prisoners and prisoners and exiles, and a reference to decide the future of Catalonia in freedom. He goes on to create independence in his plurality and diversity, seeking to work from the great consensus that exists in the country, working from the shared struggles; he goes on to extend his hand to sovereignty, because they represent a very important part of the country that understands and defends, from a non-independenceist position, that Catalonia has right to self-determination; he goes on not to conform to govern well, but to govern excellently, we have to excel to prove that we do not only want all citizenship to be better, but also that we are prepared to achieve it; he goes on, among others, to deal with the state with all the strength and with all the determination that independence has first passed the vote of the Parliament. I am convinced that it would be a mistake that independence does not take advantage of this force to claim itself before a state that had never before agreed to take over a table with the Generality, where we will put the self-determination reference on the table. It would be a mistake not to take advantage of it to get amnesty. We trust the strength that has given us citizenship in the ballot box. We all add up; we all add up to multiply it. Because the objective of this negotiation must be to achieve that the group of political prisoners and prisoners and the exiles and exiles can return to full freedom, and above all, and this is the main objective, to achieve that the group of the citizens of Catalonia can vote in freedom if it wants to be an independent state in the form of a republic, which does not do so and that there are conditions for applying the result. This is the object of a negotiation that is very difficult, very difficult. And that's why we don't stop preparing alternatives, that's why we don't stop working together to articulate the answers, which, in case we don't get out of it, instead of making a step back we can do two forwards. I'm aware, and you're not aware everyone, that we come from a way done for a lot of people, and that I need to recognize it and that I need to keep counting on everyone because there isn't only one left here, but we still want to be a lot more. I am aware and we are aware that we come from a work done in the last few years that culminates in good part 1 and 3 of October, and that it continues until today through the defense before repression, but also from the nine victories that have occurred in and out of Catalonia. That it is a feat made for a whole social and political movement of hundreds of thousands of people who have always mobilized, of dynamic entities and with a capillaryness in barrels, towns and cities, of hundreds of gatherings and, obviously, also of the majority parliaments independent of the recent legislatures and of the work done for the governments of President Puigdemont, Vice President Junqueras, President Torra and until today. This plurality is our strength. And in order to make it bigger, in order to continue in addition to us elements of this plurality in an unbeatable majority in favour of self-determination and amnesty, it is essential to coordinate strategies. This coordination must allow us to multiply our strength. And this will only be possible if you recognize all the spaces, both in Catalonia and in exile, but also if you value the leadership of the institutions of Catalonia, this Parliament, this Government and its President, which have an indelible and irreplaceable responsibility; also if in their action it proves that clearly the advent of social rights and civil rights, the strength of the state of welfare and the struggle against inequality go hand in hand with the struggle for independence. Achieving it requires flexibility, generosity and willingness, no substitutions or protections. I want to be clear and honest, too, in this sense: no substitutions or protections. But we take advantage of all the actions: the mobilized entities, the political plurality of independence, the participation and political demand of prisoners and prisoners and exile, and also, obviously, the organization around the Council for the Republic. I believe that the last few hours we have taken positive steps in this direction, that we are overcoming the schools to achieve that independence, that it was the majority in the elections of the 14th of February, and that it is the overwhelming majority in this Parliament, I have stopped all of a sudden talking only about myself and speaking again to the country's side, with a shared proposal that I have decided to work since the presidency of the Generality of Catalonia. That's why today we have more reason than ever to put the new Republican Generality out of the way, without further delay, without further delay, because emergencies don't wait. And you know, fellow deputies and deputies of Junts for Catalonia, because we govern together. We carry mass in functions and in intermission, we carry mass in managing a pandemic and a huge social and economic crisis with limited tools. We cannot present a premise that obeys the crisis situation that the country has experienced. Despite this, we have made great strides, and I quote the historic agreement presented yesterday that frees 35,000 families from debt with energy companies and that clearly fights this vulnerability. An example of how we can overcome the schools, working with ambition, uniting efforts, uniting them with social movements and with local administrations and with the highest self-requirement. Today we have the opportunity to take a step forward and re-lead from independence a proposal for the country's future with all of them, to the Government and Parliament. So what we can do today we don't have to wait two months to do it; neither two months, nor two weeks, nor two days, because there was the credibility of the project we share, but above all by responsibility with a city that is exhausted. I don't think there's a reason to extend the formation of the new government, which is more necessary than ever. We have, therefore, on the march today itself, because we have the opportunity, the new Republican Generality, a modern and advanced Generality, moved by an unequivocally unconformist attitude and with all the will of transformation. A new republican generality with all the force and legitimacy that gives it citizenship through its vote, which is responsible for before the citizenry, from the proximity, from the maximum demand and with the consciousness of examining itself every day, which represents the country's whole set of diversity and plurality, without being the heritage of anyone, and which builds the country, which makes country every day, with strategic decisions that only it and this Parliament can take. It has done so, historically, pushing, for example, linguistic immersion, or creating TV3, or building public services from the welfare state like those we have today and that we want much stronger still. And I have no doubt that we should continue to do so if we want a country, a republic, fully free. We build, therefore – and we have the opportunity today – a strong and stable government, that acts on shared objectives that already exist, that starts from a shared strategy that I am convinced already exists. We'll get over everything you've been able to get through and away from us. We build the unit inside and outside the government. It's hard, but we have the obligation. In the wake of the first session of this investment debate, I made a long presentation with my analysis of what I think we are and why I claim to push this new Republican Generality. And today I wanted to devote this second session to exposing in more detail how I want to move forward with the Catalan Republic. I have pointed out my strategy, which takes into account all the nuances and diversity of languages that we use to express the same proposal, in the background it is not so different from the rest. As much as I've been trying to explain myself clearly to get to know the political project I want to lead, a proposal that's not just a government project, it's a real project of the future, a country project. I want to devote all my efforts to tackling the social and economic crisis caused by covid-19, to transforming our production system and to resolving the conflict with the State. I want to devote all my efforts to making a Catalan republic that lasts forever and that is serving the city council, seeking for its welfare, seeking for its happiness. The challenge is capital, it's huge, in conscious sociation, so today it's time to take a step forward to complete the political, economic and social transformation that the country needs, it's time to take a step forward to make this sack that the country requires. We need to bring out a social majority, counting on all the energy and experience of the generations that have preceded us and knowing how to incorporate the younger generations that are beginning to make their way. We must bring forth a new way of doing, of relating and interacting, a way of doing collective, shared, based on trust and co-responsibility, on the dialogue and on the will to move forward from great consensus. A new way of doing things that has to be translated into a new way of governing, into a more innovative and modern Generality. May we rebel and take a step forward to rebuild again, taking advantage of all the resources of reconstruction to make Catalonia a country of opportunity and prosperity for everyone. There is an uncomplexedly independent majority. There is a vast majority in favour of amnesty and self-determination. There is a social majority in favour of the Catalan Republic. There's a progressive, left-wing social majority. That's why it's up to us to take a step forward, that's why it's up to us to compromise us. We want to build a country that esteems its people and that is fixed as a priority the happiness of the citizenry. We do it because of the work our mothers and fathers have done. We do it for our opinions and our avies. But above all, we do so as well as our children and daughters. For these reasons, I ask all of you once again to make it possible today, with your favourable vote, to invest me as President of the Generalita de Catalunya and that the country is again on the march and with leadership towards the future that we want to build. Many thanks, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.3.0	It's usually taking a break after the candidate's first intervention. As long as it has been short, half an hour, and we have consulted the groups, especially the first group to intervene..., isn't there any group that asks for a 15-minute break and can we continue the session? [[Pause.]] They seem right to all groups. So let us proceed with the intervention of the representatives of the parliamentary groups. And, therefore, the first word is given by Mr. Salvador Illa, president of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. For twenty-minute space, use the word. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.4.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr candidate, ladies and gentlemen, « Catalonia can go very far even if it does so on the basis of what it is, what it is, what it has, what it wants, what it proposes and what it demands. He didn't get along on the basis of a chimera, a snoring dream, an escaped yearning. The feeling does not grow on the earth axis of resentment. We have to pass the time to make it clear that we are not, for the sake of political and media discourse, a pleasurable speech to militant idols, but that it has magnified the precipice of misunderstanding with the rest of the village of Sepharad. Overcoming this stage is the first step forward in the right direction. They are not my words; I wrote them the very honorable Pasqual Maragall on September 11 of a year ago 2005. They seem to be written for the present time. Surprising, almost egregious, its current status. We have not yet passed, more than fifteen years later, the time to make us see what we are not, and we can not lose more, of time. Catalonia is a great country and it has everything because things are good for it. This country has no ideas, no energy, no talent. Catalonia has to go from failure to success. Catalonia must move from frustration to hope; from derailment to solutions; from radicalism to seny and sensibleness. Catalonia must move from instability, incompetence and decay to instability, progress and useful policy; from deception to sincerity and honesty; from improvisation to well done and serious work; from confusion to clarity; from uncertainty to certainty. Catalonia must move from false promises to good management. Catalonia has to move from division to retrobament. I warned you last Friday, Mr. candidate, that the proposal offered to the Catalans before this chamber was born of division, of the failure of independence in the last legislature. In fact, it is this failure that led us to anticipate the elections. You try to repeat this failure and came to this chamber last Friday with a proposal for a split-run pact, without the essential minimum doses of loyalty and coherence required of a government scheme. The interventions of those who had to be their governing partners and the subsequent vote exempt me from being more prolific at this point, nor that it is for a minimum of decorum towards their person, that I have everything. And I'm going to confess it: because I wouldn't be able or want to overcome what some of you have said and written about as partners. « Body on the ground, which ours are coming. And this second session of the investiture debate is feeling an unnecessary extension, a few minutes added in a game that, as it turns out, will end badly for Catalonia. It will have shown the worst of politics, the unwillingness to be useful to the real problems of the citizens, to seek solutions in the face of a pandemic and an economic and social crisis that we are patenting with hard, very hard effects on our society and our country. The prorogation of a party in which, there is the result that there is, whether you invest in president or not, Catalonia in loss. If he is invested president, because he will be like president vicars or dictates of a non-existent and fictitious council for the Republic. If it isn't, because you will have been the victim of unnecessary humiliation and Catalonia will continue without the solid and stable government you need. And you out, in both cases, as a clear loser. And what's worse, Catalonia loses because it's still lost in the absurd maze of a process that doesn't take place. The more time lost, the more opportunities lost. He asked about the past diverging, among many other things, what had to happen because Nissan's workers, Bosch's and many other businesses felt that their government was thinking, first of all, about them and putting all – all – resources to keep their jobs. And add "what else is to pass, Mr.Aragones, because we are in what we need to be. I'm going to say it again today. What else has to happen, Mr. candidate, because the government ceased to be the stage of its humiliations and began to be useful to Catalans and Catalans. What else has to happen because you stopped being the hostage of the anti-system, of one band, and of Waterloo, of the other. He pointed out, in my intervention of past divers, that Catalonia has a great challenge: to open a new stage with a new government. And he demanded that we all commit ourselves, starting for myself, to tell you the truth, not to deceive the citizenry with false promises. You, Mr. Candidate, said with the utmost respect, are not doing it. I know. It is repeating an error based on a great lie – the process – built from five deceptions. The first trick: by a fictional majority. They speak of 52 per cent of votes in later elections. They correspond, in reality, to less than 25_per_cent over cents; insufficient for any rupturist project. More still: the sum of the votes of Esquerra Republicana, Juntes per Catalunya and the CUP correspond to 48,05_per_cent of the votes. The votes of those who were expelled from their government, the PDECAT, are recorded. I'm mistaken: some fictional, non-existent institutions that don't represent all Catalans. The institutions of our own self-government are the ones that are gathered to the laws and conform to our living standards: the Parliament, the Presidency and the Government of the Generality. There are no others. Deceiving with a few new institutions is self-deceiving by denigrating its existence. The presidency of the Generality, Mr. candidate, is not a personal issue, it is a political and institutional issue. The Presidency of the Generality is an institution of the country serving all citizens and which cannot be secreted by parallel bodies. I didn't forget, please. The third trick: a one-sided approach dispelled by fictitious rights that banish half of Catalan society, making our country more divided and promoting the social cohesion we need. The fourth trick: to link social advances to rupturistic approaches based on inconsistent assumptions of insolidarity with the authentic values of the left. And the fifth trick: to present the last two years as a few years of success, when they actually present a negative balance for the Catalans and have not carried a win – no – to our citizens. Five deceptions like false premises of a great lie, the process, which is at the base of the frac of the previous legislature and which now you, Mr. candidate, repeats. And the result is a new fracturing: that of selling past and most likely – almost certainly – that of today's Tuesday. I see in the obligation to tell you that, with its establishment, you are responsible for bringing the country to the time of a nine elections that do not suit Catalonia. I warned you. He didn't hear a break. Mr. Candidate, Catalonia can't waste any more time. The problems of Catalans and Catalans can no longer wait. They need urgent solutions. They need a government that takes care of the country and that is not dedicated to creating more problems than we already have, and much less to repeating the mistakes of the past. A government that thinks of the city council. When you look at Catalonia, do you see all of us or just part of the Catalans? Do you think there are good and bad Catalans? The good Catalans are the ones who are independent and the rest aren't? The good Catalans are the ones who speak in Catalan and the ones who do it in the castle are not? With their split layout they ignore fifty percent Catalans and Catalans. You, who so much say esteem Catalonia, have caused him to decline. Maybe it's good that you don't esteem him so much and esteem him better. [[Greetings.]] Who esteems Catalonia does not retaliate in social justice, as the last governments of the Generalitat have done. Who esteems Catalonia wants to exercise leadership in the face of the economic, technological and climate challenges that Europe and the world is setting. Who believes Catalonia does not play with the coexistence of its citizens or build a society divided into blocks. Who esteems Catalonia does not leave it exhausted, divided and faced. Catalonia is today, unfortunately, in a scene of social and economic decline, with obvious political and institutional degradation, because we have not had good governments in the last two years. And now, when the economic and social crisis marks and will profoundly mark the post-covid-19 period, we need a government that is on the rise, that does not love the head under the wing and does not stand out for the tangent, and that leads a collective effort to deal decisively and ambitiously with the immense challenge that we have ahead; with realism and unity, with optimism and shared will to offer the best proposals for the exit of the crisis and work together, convinced that, by making it out of the hands of the rest of Spain and of the European Union, we will get out better. If we are not able to do so, or simply, you are for something else, please ask them to step aside and stop blaming others for their failures. Centrifuging responsibilities, blaming others for all the evils, cannot always be the excuse of an unforgivable lack of self-requirement and competence, and of the progress reversed in the self-government of Catalonia. The Catalonia of the next decade can be the one of concord and retrobament. This will only be possible if we pass the page, if we over-emmels two years lost from the process, two years to rule only for a part of the country. Let's be clear: Catalonia has been trying to make you feel, for a long time, a single voice, a single speech. And no, Catalonia is a plural country in which every group, every territory, every person must be able to make their contribution and their demands felt in the joint. But there is not enough to listen to these various views, it also requires a higher capacity to reach agreements; Catalonia agreements end and Catalonia agreements end. Catalonia ends, because only from the agreement is the country properly interpreted, and only from the agreement is the strength gained to seek the agreements Catalonia enfora, which will be the ones that will make us advance collectively. So that Catalunya started a new political stage. We are ahead of a new time in which it has formed an alternative to overcome the process and policy of fronts that we have suffered these past years; an alternative that is decisively and uncomplicated in order to pass the page and open a new stage of dialog, doing it without toilets, without asking anyone what has been done these past years. Mr. Aragones, in your speech of the other day you reiterated the need to highlight shared struggles, calling for broad agreements and governing for everyone. Believe me if I tell him that I too, but that all this is incompatible with vetoing the Catalan social democracy, which, moreover, on the other side, has been the most voted force in these later elections. [[Greetings.]] Catalonia's citizenship does not deserve, after a long year of living with a pandemic and the countless sacrifices demanded of it, that its vetoes and its barricades are presented so impudently. Catalonia can and must be a better country, but it needs a good government with a president who thinks of all Catalans and Catalans. We are in a critical crisis and our proposal is clear: to overcome the virus, to reactivate the economy and to leave no one behind. These are the policies that the Socialist Group and Unites pour Avançar considers priorities for Catalonia. And we are convinced that everyone is essential for the construction of a Catalonia of all, based on the full and effective realization of the values of freedom, equality, fraternity, social justice, feminism, solidarity, territorial balance and ecology. It is precisely these values that start us to wage the battle for a better, fairer, more sustainable society and economy to lead a stage of progress and shared prosperity. Catalonia urgently needs to open a new stage, a stage that exceeds that of the process. Mr. Candidate, Ishan's finished the cunning, running away and the pants, and you know it. Do you remember when they were bragging about putting pants on each other? They're out of pants, too. And now they want to bring us back back, to repeat it, all that only brought them back from weakness to weakness. Mr. Aragones, someone promised us that he would carry the independence I think he was in the middle and for the way we almost lose self-government. Mayors of Esquerra Republicana and Juntes per Catalunya, you were the most responsible for the elections you have lost. The motto of the frac was a failed government, which did not know how to sort out a president. And now they fail again, like their government. Its result today: there is no government or president. They are again responsible for bringing us to a paralysis, a blockade and an electoral horizon. Catalonia, ladies and gentlemen, has decided to pass the page. She's tired of lying. Catalonia knows that retrobament is its present and its future, that it consists of looking at us again, listening again, finding us again. This is where our parliamentary group will always be. You don't have to repeat a frac. There's a choice. And I promise to work to build it and to cap it. And I want to do it from the dialog and thinking about the society's joint venture. The Socialists and the Socialists are guarantees of solvency and good governance, essential to guarantee the social reconstruction of the country, its economic revival and concord. Catalonia can't wait any longer. Catalonia deserves a better government. My group will vote 'no to its nomination for the investiture. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.5.0	Next, the words of Ms Gemma Geis, spokesman for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.6.0	Good morning, everybody. Many honorable President Borràs, members of the Bureau of the Parliament of Catalonia, deputies, deputies and all the people who are following this investment debate here in the Parliament of Catalonia... And welcome Vice President Aragones, candidate for the presidency of the Generality, we want to thank you, first of all, for your speech and your willingness to find a point of agreement, for the effects of..., this point of finding that is this parliamentary agreement. You have referred twice to the word'sacred' and I believe that, in this sacred that you set up for the country, together for Catalonia you must have a pre-eminent role. But on the other hand, in this parliamentary agreement, you know that we have not yet reached an agreement so that we can vote in favour of your investiture and today we must abstain. My intervention, the article basically on three axes. A first example that refers to an agreement of the legislature of economic, health and social recovery, an agreement to place it at the service of the country, of its economic fabric and of the future of the country. A _second agreement for the legislature of 52_per_cent, an agreement to carry out an unequivocal mandate of the ballot boxes: the independence of Catalonia. And a third is that they are the reasons for the forbearance of Junts for Catalonia. But now we want to make a series of considerations respect negotiations. First of all, we're forced to say it and make this speech, which we didn't like to do, I assure you. In fact, that's exactly what you went through when we asked him not to hold the second session of the investiture debate until he had an agreement of the seventy-four Members and Members. With this determination, we also want to reiterate our commitment to continue working because of this pact that the country needs to reach as soon as possible. And I think we're closer to selling, and I'm sure we're not running out of time. In this sense, we would like to make clear a series of considerations, before anyone has the time to label us from that which is not: neither do we play with dates for tacticalism nor question who the candidate is, and still less want to propitiate the scarecrow of an electoral repetition. Since the night of February 14, we have expressed our willingness to reach a parliamentary agreement, because it forms part of our DNA. In the same way, we have manifested many principles, by active and passive, that you must be the 132nd president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, but you know perfectly well that no one will propose it or impose it on you from Juntes per Catalunya, or less from exile, if you are invested president. He knows perfectly well that, from the first minute, the proposals he made on the table made it clear to us that his presidency and the action to govern were outside the proposed direction of independence. Mr Aragonès, do not confuse your constituents or this Parliament. Keep up and assume that you have the responsibility to find agreements with Juntes for Catalonia if you want our support, and not just ask us for responsibility. Our responsibility will be, but it is their flexibility – because we recognize that it only has thirty-three Members and Members and not sixty-nights – that it recognises respect for our electoral programme, endorsed by thirty-two Members and Members, so that this agreement is possible for equality and independence. On the other hand, when you're referring to a people's sun and you're referring to what we have to govern for everyone..., and I think we've also found a point of finding, because in President Puigdemont's speech of investment you're also referring to it. He said: "The country, we will never forget, we are all. Catalonia is inclusive, which is when it is stronger, which is why it is diverse in cultures, in languages, in costumes, in creces. Its landscape has been made by generations of Catalans, from those who belong to families who have fallen in time to those who have just arrived. And this is also the country we know, the country that must allow us to reach an agreement. Surely, Mr. Aragones, you know that we are not on condition and we have not been able to close this investment agreement because we have not had time. In a legitimate way, you set aside the first few weeks to seek an agreement on the whole route with other parties, which turned out to be a sterile agreement. We have not vetoed any political force – we have not vetoed any. And then he improvised a left-wing agreement between the independentists that we respect, but that we understand that as soon as possible, we should reach an agreement between the seventy-four independent MPs. We will work discreetly, responsibly, without public benefits, because it makes it difficult for negotiations to arrive at a good port, but we also warn you that working with pressure... I don't think they are good travel companies. And we must also remember that the elections were initially scheduled for May 30th, which certainly did not have an execution until July. And, as you said, yesterday the government, with the councillor Tremosa and the Chakir, came to this agreement with Endesa to condone the debt..., Chakir the Homrani – I forgive –, the councillor Chakir the Homrani, to condone the debt to 35,000 vulnerable families. In this case, thanks to this initiative of entities and associations that presented a popular legislative initiative to fight the energy poverty. This agreement reached by the advisors with Endesa I believe is proof or shows that this government, even though it is functioning, is aging for the economic, social and needy interests of the country. Therefore, this pressure of interinitiation I believe that, with examples of this government today, I think they are falling, and therefore they must allow us to forge this stable agreement. The elections of the 14th of February are an opportunity that we cannot shirk and a responsibility that we cannot escape. Junts per Catalunya is given to 570,000 Catalans and Catalans who trusted the full route of Junts per Catalunya and the proposals of its electoral programme. It refers to a first axis, the axis of the economic, health and social recovery of the country. And allow me to address all those people who are concerned because they want to immunize themselves as soon as possible; to all those autonomies, small and medium-sized businesses, who live in the uncertainty of the debt; to those people who have lost part of their selves; to those people who see as the list to operate does not hide; to all those who do not see their parents or their advisors as a precaution, and to all those teachers who make their class a bomb for all children and children who see the disease at home, and also to those people who have lost the work or who are in an ERT; to all and to all of the people of the long professional chain who are at home, and to those who have lost the job or who are in a ERT. We are very aware of all and every one of these delicate realities, because we have them around us. The situation is rather complex, delicate and serious as it is to devote itself to flying pigeons or partying. The moment requires seriousness, serene, present vision, but also future; it requires courage, imagination and collective ambition. Catalonia needs to apply with political solvency for economic recovery: to support the affected tourism sector; to boost renewable energies to reach the cent_per_cent by 2050 with country consensus, but without moratoriums; to implement the urgent reform of the health system proposed by the experts; to apply a secure reopening plan to the affected sectors; to protect the third sector; to take advantage of the potentialities of public-private collaboration; to transform the Catalonian Occupation Service; to accelerate the dual FP; to increase investment in R & D+I in advanced countries from 1 and mig to 3_per_cent. That's our model too. A pact to which you also have to refer, which you believe you have made... to Catalonia will send you a reference. We also need an agreement that refers to the diversity of the territory and the reality of the Pyrenees. We are defending the quality of public services, beyond the management of these services. We defend a model of education and public school and of our Catalan language; that they call policies against youth and, above all, also policies in favor of women, overloaded by the effects of the pandemic, with multiple unexplainable limitations in full 21st century. A country that renounces half its potential is a futureless country. This, Mr Aragonès, candidate Aragonès, is the Junts project for Catalonia, endorsed with thirty-two deputies, which is far from the agreement that you have made with Esquerra and the CUP, which we consider to be policies that do not impose this solvency mark on us for reactivation. We are also concerned about the presuppositionary impact of this agreement. For example, economist Germà Bel feia refers to the presuppositionary impact of 4,200_million euros on the application of universal guaranteed income. We feel far from this country project that they have agreed with the CUP. I enter, therefore, into this second axis of my intervention: an agreement for the 52_per_cent legislature. The citizenry has made a clear commitment to us, and we are close to finding the formula to compliment it. We can't leave it for a next generation. Independence is not a final goal, but an indispensable tool to guarantee Catalonia's future. We need all the tools to be able to cope with current and future needs. That is why we ask that this legislature be the sum of the intelligence of all the strategies to fulfil the freedom of our country. The deal is over, and you know it, Mr. Aragones, that we're doing it. We do it with the dial table, despite our scepticism. But the cessation must be reciprocal. And it must also be the legislature of concretion, and we lack some important points without which it is impossible to set course. And we're not going anywhere. His election program and his first investment speech also spoke of the need to force the Spanish State to resolve the political conflict democratically and to accept amnesty and referral as the only way to resolve the conflict with Catalonia. It's a wish and a shared vision, but we can't live off desires, it's time for realization. Our interlocutor has merely made it clear that he has no intention of resolving this conflict by political means; he has no need. Its offer of dialyg is based on not talking about amnesty or about an agreement. In fact, amnesty has not even been allowed to go to Congress of Deputies in a pitiful demophobic stalwart of PSOE's hand, VOX, PP and Ciutadans. If you want a graphic image, when we talk about the wall, it's exactly this one. The promise of the sedition reform is every day more unreal, as Minister Iceta said yesterday. And the agreed reference, which would be the logical and democratic solution, is more than discarded by the current Spanish government. In the face of all these negatives, which are not, I repeat, an intuition, but a certainty, our question is what we will do to find a solution – not tomorrow, not tomorrow, not tomorrow, not 2023, but today –; how we generate this need before whom you do not see it; how we prepare ourselves; how, with words that you have made reference to the investment debate, we inevitably make amnesty and referral; what are contingency plans so that we do not have to improvise before every foreseeable refusal of the State; how we act before every year of repression. I think these are reasonable questions, that now is a time to set them up and we can't keep moving forward if we don't have a strategic joint agreement. These past three years have been very complicated, and repression, with all its strength and cruelty, has only made it difficult. And I will be very clear: the independenceist disagreement is not viable – the independenceist disagreement is not viable. We refuse to be the generation of policies that have not been able to agree before some results that pass the international barrier of 50_per_cent; we do not want to be this generation. We are able to show our best version again. We don't want to make an autonomous government, but a government to make independence. We need to articulate mechanisms that are meant to separate us, because it will be intended because our paths are separate. Disunity is the victory of repression. We firmly believe that independence is not left with any leadership, but on the contrary, we need all of us. And it's about this conviction that we need to build the confidence needed to keep moving forward, with generosity and empathy. We must strengthen our strengths and resolve our weaknesses. I believe that you, in this second investment debate, have also made reference to these strengths and weaknesses. Last week, at the meeting of the parliamentary group, Councillor Turull told us that the two days before October 1st we saw the period of more unity of action and unity in the legitimate government, and we all wanted to see the results: a people raised, voting, deciding, standing, determined and not by. When we say we're going to do it again we're saying this; that's exactly what Juntes is saying for Catalonia: that he wants to do it again, that he wants to join the independence forces of this country. In these three years we have lived, the deputies and deputies, this spirit of unity at times, with the captoxinade, with the wave of fame, with the proposal of resolution of the mediator, with the law of amnesty or the day we knew the judgment of the High Court of Justice, or the day we were in Germany when President Puigdemont had left prison. These moments of unity are what we want to build together for Catalonia, because these are the moments that represent us and these are the moments that we are willing to give in and reach all agreements because this 50_per_cent international barrier we do not disapprove of; we do not neglect it in the service of the country, in the service of our people. That's our point of view. And, finally, the last one is: why do we abstain. I think it's important, too, to make it clear. We abstain, but with the intention of reaching an agreement. Call an agreement that guarantees economic recovery and applies the 52_per_cent mandate. Don't ask us about the bilateral agreement... respect and it's legitimate, but don't ask us about the bilateral agreement that the CUP and Esquerra have reached. We understand that there is a parliamentary force of seventy-four Members and Members. And we in this work, with the methodology of joint work, will add to it, agree, and I think we also have points of finding with the independence forces. But this bilateral agreement... we can't feel ourselves... we can't defend it, and I think it's legitimate. We want an agreement where the 575,000 votes of the Catalans and Catalans who voted Junts for Catalonia are represented. And, also, this priority strategy of starting negotiations with other parliamentary forces with less parliamentary support can say that it has certainly been sterile. Finally, third point to reach which justifies this abstention: to agree a strategic agreement to Europe. The work of exile – you refer – with President Puigdemont on the front has achieved the major achievements of independence in these three years, with the internationalization of the conflict and putting against the strings the Spanish injustice to the various countries of the European Union, with judicial victories that have resulted in political victories. We have not seen an example, a few days ago, with the reverse of the Council of Europe in the Spanish State for the arrest of Jordi Cuixart. Four: to establish a unit of action in Madrid to defend the interests of Catalans and Catalans. Day after day we see evidence of this need; day after day we see that agreements with the Spanish government are liquid. So, for example, they voted on a change in a decentralised management of European funds, which is ultimately not guaranteed and that the PSOE vote needed the support of VOX. We are here to defend the interests of Catalans and Catalans, and if you are invested as president, we must be at your side to unite in Madrid to defend the interests of Catalans and Catalans. With the president, we have to be. And, therefore, this unity is needed in Madrid. And to continue denouncing the necessary infrastructures that Catalonia needs and that affect the competitiveness of our companies, the existence of this asphyxiating fiscal deficit, the failure to pay the third additional provision. All this, Aragonès, when I'm president... we can't get to Madrid with this disunity in defense of Catalonia's interests. And, therefore, Juntes for Catalonia wants to add in this sense, because there is this unit of action in Madrid to defend the interests of Catalans and Catalans. And, sadly, yesterday we saw a new evidence with the Celaá law, which did not shield linguistic immersion. I remember how President Borràs, at that time the spokesman for Junts for Catalonia, denounced to the Congress of Deputies that it did not shield linguistic immersion. I myself remember, talking to three lawyers at a lost pace, about the exams, that they could be narrowed down more legally. So this is a finding that comes together in Madrid, and when there's an impact, when there's an attack, you can also give a joint response and you don't have to improvise. We need to move from the magic pact to the actual pact. We believe that this cannot continue, we believe that there must be a strategic unit, and we also believe that we must give this support to the candidacy of the Presidency of the General when it is necessary to defend these interests of Catalans and Catalans in Madrid. Separated and with pacts that aren't complete or with bad pacts, we think it's not the way. And finally, another reason for abstention, and we'll wait and work because this changes, but we can't invest it as president without having a parliamentary agreement, a government agreement that describes who policies are, who laws need to be approved, which refers to the distribution of competencies and the distribution of responsibilities of the government. 2017, surely you didn't even do it if all this wasn't locked up, and we'll work because you can lock up. For this reason, we must continue to work so that in the next few days and weeks, as soon as possible, we have this agreement of legislature, economic recovery, social and health care in the country, in order to advance towards independence. We are more optimistic because we know that there have been unlocking moves to be reaffirmed, and we have also listened to your investment debate today. And, therefore, we are optimistic, but we must continue to work. Because you already have our trust, what we need is to build agreements so that your presidency has a clear direction and trust and loyalty is present at the length of this legislature. And when we talk about a parliamentary agreement – and with this end – we are talking about building the model of country we want. And I want to refer to a quote from the speech of one of my personal and professional references, who is also the architect of Olot of the RCR, the Carme Pigem, during the acceptance of his Pritzker Prize, or Nobel Prize in Architecture to Japan, who said: "Architecture is the art of materializing dreams long a journey. Candidate Aragones, we want to reach this parliamentary agreement, we want to start this journey towards economic recovery, towards the recovery of the country, towards the independence of Catalonia and with the sum of the three independence forces. And that'll keep us at your side. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.7.0	Thank you very much. Next, the words of Mr. Ignacio Garriga, president of the Parliamentary Group of VOX in Catalonia. [[Some Members leave the room.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.8.0	Thank you, President. I recognize that we are not concerned that many of you leave the room when some VOX deputy goes up to the speaker's rostrum or staged with posters, staining an institution like this, which is the Parliament of Catalonia. They really show their contempt for democracy and political plurality. But it is something typical of separatism and the left, we know, that it is to flee forward without facing the problems, while they negotiate, because that is what they do, to advance in that republican dream that has led Catalonia to division, ruin and misery. Their theatre, because it is a real theatre, leaves them in evidence before hundreds of thousands of Catalans who have voted for them at some point and who are sure they will never do it again, and hundreds of thousands more than, although they may have voted for them in the last elections, I assure them that they will not do it again, because they are unable to propose anything for Catalonia and for the future of families and workers. That is why you intend to gag the main national opposition force in this Parliament, which talks about the real problems of Catalans. A theatre, yes, that of separatism, that makes us waste time, day and day too, in this chamber and in the street. A candidate for the presidency of the Generalitat, Mr Pere Aragonès, who is only the puppet of Oriol Junqueras, like Mrs Borràs of the fled Puigdemont. And they take the fight between Lledoners and Waterloo to the Parliament of Catalonia. In short, a partisan battle for command and not for the general interest of the Catalans as a whole. Mr Aragonès, I listened with interest to your speech last Friday and your speech today, believe me, but I recognize that without any hope that you, once and for all, would present some proposal for Catalonia. But I recognize you that at least I hoped you would have learned from the lesson of the coup d'état of 1 October and from the disastrous consequences that institutional separatism has had for Catalans. But none of that. Mr Aragonès has repeated as a mantra the idea of political conflict, a lie that a thousand times repeated is still a true falsehood. Because, no, there is no political conflict in Catalonia. I repeat: there is no political conflict in Catalonia. There is a group of politicians, some prisoners, others escaped and others present in this chamber, who have subverted the constitutional order and use the institutions to boost their break-up agenda. [[some applause]] , the most serious crime in our legal system. And I recognize that I do not rule out Pedro Sánchez's pardoning of the coup prisoners – I do not rule out it. Left separatism has been sharing a plan for decades and the release from prison of Oriol Junqueras and company will surely depend on the political interests of the Socialist government. And here I hope, Your Honor, that when Sánchez's interests and separatism converge once again on the side of the constitutional order, as he has seemed to express here today in this rostrum; if not, we will see that his speech here is pure imposture. He said, Mr Aragonès, that being Catalan today is to want to be part of a common collective project, of a society of rights and freedoms, open, plural, where everyone, wherever they come from, is welcome. There is no single way to be Catalan and you do not have the monopoly of Catalanity, on the contrary, feeling Spanish is the most natural way to be Catalan, Mr Aragonès. He also said Mr Aragonès, rights and freedoms, and has repeated it on many occasions. But for whom, Mr. Aragonès? For families who cannot school their children in Spanish? For hoteliers who are fined for labeling in Spanish? For workers who cannot go to their jobs when you decide to cut off public transport or the Meridian? For Catalans who suffer in their neighbourhoods the effects of illegal immigration? For elderly women who are stolen in some cases by the miners? Or for members of the National Police Corps or the Civil Guard whom you deny vaccination? [[Some applause.]] He also spoke of an open and plural society. Plural? Plural to attack the acts of other political formations and harass the thousands of Catalans who do not share their ideological farce? Or for the Andalusians, extremists, Galicians who have come to our land and are permanently attacked by you calling them "the carnegos? The only ones who are welcome in the Catalonia of separatism are illegal immigrants, who in many cases come to delinquent and turn our neighborhoods, our towns and our cities into scenes of theft, assault, aggression and rape. Illegal immigrants, not those who come legally to work and contribute to raising our people. They are perfectly welcome, because they come to take our nation forward. No rights, no freedoms, no pluralism. His project is the greatest misfortune for Catalonia; a condemnation for generations and generations of Catalans forced to grow, to form a family in an environment of political and social oppression. You should apologize to the Catalans for everything you've done and leave you, but believe me, leave you forever. [[Some applause.]] Catalonia is experiencing the greatest health, economic and social crisis in its recent history. And the thousands of Catalans who felt abandoned by the Generalitat will not have found words of comfort in their speech, Mr Aragonès. A health crisis they haven't lived up to. They turned the elderly residences into morgues, led the number of contagions of health professionals, and now, with a failed vaccination plan, full of uncertainties and lies. And his proposals to strengthen health structures and increase the rate of vaccination are limited to talking about more independence. Your sincerity I acknowledge that I am ashamed, Mr Aragonès: to go up to Parliament's rostrum to admit that they are not going to strengthen the health system, that they are not going to shield the health of Catalans and that they are not going to allocate the funds of all citizens to ensure their well-being in the midst of the health crisis. They have a responsibility to save lives. They have the responsibility to save the tourist season and with it jobs, businesses, families. Will they end the political waste? No, no, Are they going to shut down TV3 and stop paying millions of dollars to politicians put on Tertullians? No, no, Will the subsidies for friends and separatist organizations end? No, no, Once again, the separatists, protected, and the Catalans, abandoned. [[Some applause.]] We are in the midst of an unprecedented economic crisis. And his job is not to propose or promote a dynamizing taxation, to guarantee legal certainty, but to ban, to drive companies away and to delve into fiscal asphyxiation. Prohibit hoteliers from opening up and workers from performing their professional duties. And now it promises €700 million in aid. But tell us, will it happen as with the help to the self-employed, that they were given on a web that collapsed and that did not reach even 10_per_cent of those who were entitled to it? Moreover, he said – he said on Friday – that he will go out to the markets to look for funds. Which ones, Mr. Aragonès? If Catalonia's creditworthiness is the worst rated of all autonomous communities and Catalan debt is the only one that agencies qualify as a garbage bond. That's what they've turned Catalonia into. If it is the economic engine of our nation, leading among others the industrial sector, to be qualified as a garbage bond in international markets. [[Some applause.]] His Catalonia project, which we of course amend in its entirety, has led us to grow below the Spanish and European average, that GDP fell by 11.5_per_cent in 2020 and that between 25 and 30_per_cent of the small and medium-sized enterprises that are currently in Catalonia, according to the forecasts of his current advisor, Mr Tremosa, are doomed to closure. Immersed in a social crisis with more than half a million unemployed, a youth unemployment rate of 38_per_cent and 35_per_cent of children in poverty or social exclusion in Catalonia, we have had to see how you, Mr Aragonès, thanked the UPC, the greatest risk to the prosperity of Catalans. You said: "Thank you for your generosity and commitment. A violent group, openly democratic as is the CUP, contrary to private property, which encourages occupation, whose puppies also destroy Catalonia when they can burn containers, vandalize the city, harassing and assaulting Catalans who do not think like them, those are for you an example of generosity, as a candidate. But of course, you're the same. There are no differences between Mr Aragonès, Mrs Borràs or the CUP, responsible for the violent attack, among others, on my election rally in Vic, I don't know if they will remember. Because, right? Some throw the stone and others hide the hand. What a shame! There is no greater speech of hatred, Mr Aragonès, than making violent people look like democrats – there is no greater speech of hatred than making violent people look like democrats. And, yes, we want to put order in Catalonia and we don't care about their insults, their labels, their posters. We are truly concerned about the Catalans who suffer its consequences, the Catalans who are in the queues of hunger, the small and medium-sized enterprises that are on the verge of ruin, and the Catalans who are harassed and assaulted by criminals. Or the serious problems arising from the presence of Islamic fundamentalism in our streets and neighborhoods, incompatible with the West and which poses a serious risk to future generations of Catalans. And, Mr. candidate, if even in France and Denmark, as I told you last week, you have realized, I do not know what you expect to recognize and put a stop to your double offensive: social, in the streets and neighborhoods, and violent, in the form of terrorist attacks, like the one we unfortunately suffered in Barcelona. Catalans, now I want to address all of you, all of you who have seen from your homes, in many cases without being able to open your business, how separatism re-turns the institutions into a real circus serving the agenda of a fugitive and a prisoner. Everyone who looks at the political class with anger and perceives how those who are called to govern move only their interests, concerns and forgets the emergencies and needs of ordinary Catalans. I want to tell you that there is hope and there is a future for Catalonia despite them, that VOX will persevere in defending the constitutional order and in ending the health, economic and social emergency that many Catalans suffer and that separatism and the left are unable to face. For all those who, as I said before, try to stigmatize us and insult us, I want to make it clear to you that we are not going to go, nor are we going to shut up. And I repeat, we're not going to leave and we're not going to shut up. We will lead the national reaction in Catalonia and the frontal opposition to its ideological delusions and its rupturist agenda. And I am convinced that, sooner than later, as I said last Friday, the eleven Members of VOX will become so many more. And to conclude, before Mrs Borràs makes an intervention to my speech, because she will certainly do so – and unfortunately she will not do so in the face of the images and symbols that have been exposed at the headquarters of the sovereignty of Catalonia –, Mrs Borràs, I want to say, and I also want to tell you all that denouncing the consequences of illegal immigration, the presence of miners in the streets or Islamic fundamentalism in Catalonia is not a speech of hatred – it is not a speech of hatred – is to point out the reality that we live in Catalonia, a problem that many Catalans suffer and that goes to more. Their silence – their silence – and the gloom they want to impose on those who do denounce the consequences of their delusions makes them responsible for the wave of violence they suffer and will suffer Catalonia. For us it is not going to stay, we will do everything possible to put order in Catalonia and point out their ideological delusions and the risk they pose to the coexistence and prosperity of all Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.9.0	Effectively, Mr. Garriga, I will use the word only to make an acclamation. Res does not prevent Members from displaying images or symbols from their escons. And I want to make it clear, respect the initial consideration that you gave me, that one of the images that was shown the other day was not an exaltation of the swastika, but all the contrary. The image that was displayed is an image of Pere Català, the author of this poster commissioned for the Republican Generality in 1936, and what it shows is the spread of a swinging squadron movement. [[Greetings.]] It's not just a symbol of the Spanish Civil War, but of the confrontation of humanism against feixism. [[Perlongats applause.]] Next, has the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me, do I ask for the word, Mr. Garriga? What's the reason for asking me?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.10.0	Article 90 makes it possible for Members to make a call to observe the Rules. The Rules of Procedure, in its article 39, stipulate that the President shall show impartiality. You, every time our group president, Ignacio Garriga, speaks, makes political statements. Please refrain from political demonstrations to enforce the Regulation. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.11.0	Mr. Garriga. Mr. Ignacio Garriga questioned me directly. The Presidency shall, among its powers, conduct the session. And as a result of this direct inquiry, I explained to him that it was not in any case an exhibition of a swastika, but that I contextualized it from which image it was treated. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.12.0	For allusions of 87...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.13.0	No, he doesn't have the use of the word anymore. He's already made his speech for the article, I gave him the explanation. You no longer have use of the word, Mr. Garriga. Thank you. Next, the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle to Win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.14.0	Thank you, President. Today, from the CUP - A New Cycle for Winning we do not come to talk about a minimum agreement, an agreement that is not sterile. We've already talked about selling. If we don't have to talk, it has to be to expand it, to make it concrete and to equip it with the mechanisms necessary to evaluate it. And we don't have to evaluate it just the new MPs of the CUP, or the thirty-three of the Republican Left, but the people who want to stop seeing Brimo or Arro denouncing, or the people who want to stop feeling sorry for themselves Endesa size the light. No, we're not talking about this today. The radicals, yes, but not fools – in the words of the spokesman of the People's Party – we want to insist on the reptes of the country, of the needs and urgency of the workers and workers, and of how to do it. In this 21st century, the systemic crisis is already a civilizing crisis. That's why we can't always do the same, expecting different results. In fact, it is always easier to criticize the existing situation than to propose a credible alternative. And here we are. Or here's the debate today. Again, a debate failed and not on our own account. And before a crisis of rule and three years of continued political, legal, criminal and prison exceptionality, it is our duty to put the tools in place to reverse the process of demobilization, that the only thing that it does is to enable a pact to date to support a failed and authoritarian regime. And it is our duty to learn from the limitations of institutional policy in management, from the management of these past years of failed legislature – from which, candidate, was not the vice president – but also from the management of the government of progressive coalitions, to the State or to the rest of the Catalan Countries. The coronavirus has put to the test the tools of which we equip ourselves as society to guarantee life, and we have seen how they do not respond to the interests of the majority. While the working people are now pouring the consequences of the 2008 crisis's debt-receipts in the form of labor reform, temporary contracts, and Seconds Intermon, they know that the world's 1,000 richest people have been cheating new months to recover what they had lost to the pandemic crisis. And it's that if the 2008 receipts were used to rescue the big bank and apply austerity under the troika dictatorship, European funds are already targeting state parasitic enterprises, in a double operation of greenwashing and rescue over multi-million-dollar enterprises. In addition, they follow the same pattern as in 2008: job rights and pensions. The European left has to say enough to the whole of the day, at the very end of the day, of direct public funds to the pockets of the funds invested and of the capital to finance that it piles up behind the enterprises that left the State and live to scan the working people with the invoices of the light, the water or the gas. At what cost will the government of the Generality, the businesses or the people be put? And it is that not questioning the system itself and not questioning the combination of the legal, political and economic institutions of the state is only a guarantee of the implementation of insufficient measures, when not regressive, that generate higher rates of dissatisfaction and political disaffection. And let me take a break here and talk to those who are talking about useful policy or who are squandering with the anti-systems. Mr. Illa, we already know that you, between the people and the elites, have decided to be the butlers of the IBEX 35 and the vassals of a corrupt monarchy allied with the most corrupt party in Europe, such as the Popular Party, with Ciutadans or the VOX Faixist Party. [[Some applause.]] In our turn we have political repression, we have people who suffer for judges who have pending or people who are about to go into prison to defend their rights. And, yes, many accused for the Generality: the Adrian, the Marcel, the Garrobo, the Moisès, the 27th and later. In our turn, we have people denouncing, despite the fact that the Government of the State and of the Generality have repeatedly said that they are putting up with the denunciations; people poor, people, in fact, mass poor who do not have access to the springs of the vital minimum income or to the guaranteed income of citizenship; people who have seen as during the months the SEPE ignored them. In our turn, we have people who do not find in public health their most important right, after years of looting of "socio-vergency". In our turn, we have homophobia, lesbophobia, transphobia, growing with impunity. In our turn, we have victims of gender-based violence trapped in precariousness and in their aggressors; we have violations of the extreme right and of the fascism that fuel these discriminations while they are consented to by the powers. In our turn, we have white people because she ended up working at an IEC for a foreign law that the government of the State is refusing to repeal or because she is a victim of racism and xenophobia. In our turn, we have natural resources in peril; we have a devastated mass territory, Mr. Calvet, and a candy from the totxo that offends us. In fact, at these moments 380,000 Catalans live with tickets less than 350_euros per month. She's the severe poor. This night 10,737 people have slept on the street because they have no place to do it. Five hundred_seventy-five thousand people are at risk of exclusion. One of every three infants saw in poverty. More than 780,000 people in Catalonia have stopped buying medicines or following treatments or diets for economic problems, Mrs Vergés. More than 430,000 children in Catalonia live in poor conditions. It's the end of the month, March 30th. These days, more than half the population has trouble getting to the end of the month. The large people who live alone devote more than half of the annual expenditure to housing and sub-administration. That is why, more than just palliative measures to deal with the social, health and economic crisis, it is necessary to change the way things work. The economic allocation mechanisms have proved useless if what is meant is to guarantee decent lives, and that means, as you said, candidate, pa, sotre, trabalho and salut. For this reason, a programme that gives immediate response to the situation of social and political crisis that we are experiencing: health crisis, housing crisis and repression is indispensable. But there is also a programme that makes it possible to move forward in the legislative field with those proposals that are essential for improving people's living conditions and winning and shielding sovereignty in different areas. A social and economic program of political changes as an independenceist horitzo. Universal basic rendering, Mrs. Geis, does not guarantee universal. Universal basic rendering as the phonenal redisseny of income distribution. Housing as a basic right and not as a good market. A national public sector plan that shields school and sanitation, that shields essential services such as water, light or gas. A public bank serving the productive economy, the peppers and the social and solidary economy, and a public pharmaceutical that has the astronomical benefits of private pharmaceutics. We are aware of the limitations of the autonomous institution respect the power of the State, and we are also aware that there are political proposals to extend the majority to the Catalan society that do not fit in the legal framework of the regime. We have seen, in fact, how, in recent years, drawings of laws approved by Parliament were totally or partially suspended by the Constitutional Court. But we can't stay in the accumulation of weeds, we can't be paralyzed for resignation, we need to turn this resignation into strength to move forward. The full independence path cannot be closed to the social needs of the majority. The CUP - A New Cycle to Win, as it has always done, we have the extended hand to advance towards independence and the exercise of the right to self-determination, and we have to do it together. But there's enough to use the unit as a trigger. The unit is not a proclamation nor can it be awarded by any party, because then it is not united, it is partyism. As I said, there are proposals for a majority of the Catalan society that already have an organized support behind them, that are physically defendable, as we see every morning putting up with denunciations, and that simultaneously play with constitutional and supra-state marks. What is needed is to generate the necessary space to be able to tackle during the legislature the most specific work axes, but, on the other hand, to address those points that we know can advance the legislature as a pole of democratic conflict, simultaneously between the institution and the street. So the full route goes to empower popular institutions, to re-generate alliances, mobilisations and processes of legitimization of the political change that must entail the break with the State, accompanied by processes of delegitimization of the State. The CUP comes to deploy and defend until the later consequences of a social programme of political change that places the interests of the working people in the centre of gravity of Catalan politics, thus situating the republic we want, endowed with sovereignty and thus promoting the addition of popular majorities to the independence project from a clause of defense of material conditions of life. And, yes, we come to culminate in a new breakup with the State. In short, the full independence path needs a program and a political action of social transformation, because we already know that the State takes the interests of the elites ahead of the guarantee of basic rights, as we have seen, protecting the interests of the money and refusing to veto the right to housing regulating the loguers. For all this, there are and there are. We've always been with people who want to talk about people's needs. Today we celebrate that Junts started talking about social policies. But we'll start badly if you don't agree to a minimum deal. Because there is no agreement on stars – there is no agreement on stars – when it comes to guaranteeing rights. And universal basic income is not touched. And not because we say so. [[some applause]] , but because it is a basic tool to guarantee, for the first time, a minimum of autonomy to the citizens of this country, it is the basis of republican freedom that some claim to defend. If they don't want to guarantee these rights, explain how they want to do it. And Esquerra, there's enough to say that everything's fine, because it's obviously not. Keep it clear, people want answers. We'll keep our hands full to turn this legislature into a fighting legislature for the rights of the people and freedom of the country, and we'll keep the punk locked up before who wants to confuse country with party, who doesn't put people and country in the center, but puts falling balls in the center. People don't deserve it, they won't allow it. And we're always on your side. This may be the legislature of a new struggle with the State, now from Esquerra and Junts that does not follow the legislature of the people's struggle against the government. They're voting again today. But – to finish – to advance in a social program that gives response to the needs of the country, it is not possible to adopt a governmentalist strategy, a strategy of the old fish to the hole, a strategy adapted to the few margins that the State allows negotiating soft with the central government. Because the State will not flow with respect to the repression and intervention of the Generality. It is no secret – and Mr. Illa's speeches are an exhibition – that the Spanish Government has no intention of opening a way of democratic resolution of the conflict or of respecting sovereignty at the hour not only to decide on independence, but also on proposals for social change and deep democracy that most of this country poses. For this reason, our challenge and our duty is to impinge Parliament and the Government on a break-up march, on a right-wing acceleration process. Power is the ability to do things. And popular power is the ability to mobilize people for voluntary collective actions. And out of these pairs we have the best structure that this country can have: its people. The people who organize themselves, the people who fight, the people who manifest themselves, the people who write, the people who think, the people who rise up so that they can achieve that once and for all a rule is reversed that kept indecent privileges while expelling their people to the worst of precariousness. And this: the CUP - A New Cycle to Win Today we commit ourselves to working, to mobilize and to organize ourselves so that we will definitely gain hope in this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.15.0	Next, and at the request of candidate Mr. Pere Aragonès, we would do a 15-minute recess. Let's resume the session at twelve and five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.16.0	Please, if you'll mind your own business, we'll resume the session. [[Pause.]] The words "Jessica Albiach", president of the Parliamentary Group in Comú Pueblo, are then used.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.17.0	Thank you, President. And good morning to all and to all. And say good morning to say something, because today really is not a good day. And it's not a good day for those of us here, but it's not a good day for the country either. Because today the blockade is re-staged, the lost opportunity to move forward like the country; the days passed, the needy grew, and here we continue to install in immobilism. And also because if the other day he was talking about humiliation from Juntes to Esquerra, today we need to talk about humiliation squared away, and they'll let me say that. A humiliation in the square, because we will see here again a vote that will not prosper, with a candidate, Mr Aragonès, who is already the second time he is presented. And I also think it's a quadruple humiliation if we look at the show that's been going on in the social media this week between those who are supposed to want to be partners; a show going down to the fang and without a hangover. And today I have to tell you, Mr. Aragones, that yours has not been an investiture speech. Today there was a new negotiating meeting between Junts and Esquerra, this time in public, with all of us and also with all the people who are following us from home. Because you no longer know what to do because they recognize their victory, and because they recognize, too, the institutions of Catalonia. You had to insist: "no substitutions or protections. "Without substitutions or guardians, this has followed the message that you today have had to insist on those who are supposed to be your partners. Before, on the one hand, the Council's threat to the Republic, but also because we are seeing how Junts wants to mark the strategy, also, of Republican Esquerra – not of his own party, but Republican Esquerra – for what he does to politics in Madrid. Therefore, you have had to insist today: "no substitutions or protections. And the truth is, we don't know how it's going to end or when it's going to end, this situation, which is unfortunate, but we can say that the one that starts badly, then, doesn't get used to ending well. The one who starts badly gets used to ending badly. And if we see what Catalonia's been through the past few years, then I think we could all agree, even though it's just this, to say that people need it and they deserve us to do things right. We have a scene – because, besides, here I also believe that we can all coincide, has gone into the various interventions –..., we are all very anxious, we are all very concerned about these multiple crises that the country is experiencing. But, also, we have a government in place that already carries six months – because we want to remember that you have six months in place – a divided government and that the same President Torra said in his time – and more than a year ago – that he would not support himself. Forty days have passed – which is also said quickly, it is said quickly – after the elections of the 14th of February, and, Mr. Aragones, you have agreed with Juntes, that they do not recognize him as the leader, that they are threatening him with creating this bicephaly and that, moreover, they want to mark him also who is the strategy of his party for what he does to the politics of Madrid. Some opinionators say this weekend – and I think it was an uncertain formula –..., they talked about the chicken game between Esquerra and Junts : once more, to see who stops the car, in the end, before falling for the penna-segat. And this situation we've been carrying for many years. And this time, in these negotiations, we're back in this situation: the chicken game, which is the last thing I'm gonna stop the car from falling for the cockroach. And what's clear... I don't know who's gonna win, but if we go this way, the country sure as hell won't. And, besides, the other day I also think that in his speeches he spoke a lot of feminism; he spoke a lot of feminism, he spoke a lot of cures. So I think anything less feminism is what we're seeing in these negotiations and in these investment debates. He's a little feminist. I'd say it's patriarchy in essence, wouldn't it? For ways, but also because he's not taking care of himself, he's not thinking about the people's needs. The divendres was asked by Mr Batet, the chairman of the Junts Parliamentary Group, to you, that today this plenary is not celebrated. And, of course, you had a dilemma: if you accepted the petition, they would win; if you kept the Ple, you would give a shot of authority, that's right. But today, if you're not invested, they'll win again. And so on. It's a continuous pulse among those who want to be partners, all I have to confess to start thinking that what they want to be partners is more than questionable. Because when you want to be partners, you do, and you trust them. What's going on is that I'm starting to doubt whether you really want to be partners or what's going on is that you're trapped and no one's going to say that this is not going to be right, but that you've generated a lot of expectations and that you want to be in the government as it is. And so we take a lot of time, a lot of time in this endless race between you for power and for the report. A race that does not take place more than to a government – as I said the other day – that will have the obsolescence programmed. A government that is more than the same, but worse, because this time the word is already bursting, the word is already filled with toilets, resentment and mistrust. And we also think, all that we are here, that if we – and we are commenting on it in the past, and we know this – are tired, we are exhausted from these dynamics and these logics, that they are toxic, that they are paralysing, how must be the people who are seeing us from home and who are experiencing these multiple crises to which we all refer. So I think people, from home, are looking at us with stupidity, looking at us with misguidedness and looking at us with helplessness and disappointment, wondering why they're voting for us and why they're paying us. Because they cost them a lot, arriving at the end of the month. And here we are, giving them back to a theme that we see is not moving forward and probably not going to end well, because they only see us in four pairs, unable to agree. Because the logics of the parties, once more, are imposing themselves on the needy of the country. And because they, unfortunately, do not have the privileges that we have that we are here; they do not have the privileges of being able to stand still, of being blocked or of defending the « as worse, better. And because, thanks to them and to them, it's the country, rising up, rising up and advancing. Thanks to the people and, too often – too often – despite the policies. I find it a desolating panorama and I'm, well, pretty embarrassed, and I know I don't know the only one who's ashamed of everything that's going on these weeks. Because, besides, we have some health professionals who are doing more hours than a watch, who are volunteering, too, to be able to pull the vaccination process forward. We're seeing how people are reinventing themselves. Like, for example, the Àuria cooperative, which has become a cosmetics company, almost a pharmaceutical company, during the pandemic, and which is giving work to 450 people, 270 of them having functional diversity. As we have the territory's mutual support networks, which are distributing food, which are providing housing advice, which are helping all those people who have the language barrier to relate to the Administration. There is a network of anti-racist cures that are focused on generating boxes of resistance directed at migrants who do not have papers or chronic diseases or who have functional diversity; at all those seas that do not have support networks; at sex workers; at workers of the world and of the cures, who know in which conditions they are and that today is the international day of all of them. And they owe us, too. We have workers and workers who are fighting and defending their place of work before the displacements, because there is no public leadership. But they're also defending labor security. Today, Iqoxe's workers and workers in Tarragona are on the loose, because three people died in an accident. Here we created a study commission to see what had happened, and they've been through all these months and the company hasn't changed its job security measures yet. And now they're going to be out of business because they're changing something. We have the professionals of culture – cinema, actors, actors, the production people, the people of direction – who are distributing food cysts to all those companies and companies that have not been able to work during all these months, for the pandemic, and that do not have a lot of pa to put themselves in the mouth. And before that, before the strength of the people, of their courage, of their creativity, before their ability to self-organize and reach agreements, the institutions of this country are blocked and we have a government in place for the dispute between Esquerra and Junts. This is the raw reality. And, in fact, here we don't see that you're scheming for the time being or for the possible fourth time and as far as we're concerned, or for the search. We are talking about the Council for the Republic, the battles and who it is, the masovers and the lords. And we've seen his head all week. But I want to insist on an idea that is very simple, that the door repeats from before and after elections, and that is that this country is not allowed to repeat more than itself, but worse, because there is an alternative. There is an alternative, which is plural and which would allow us to face the health, economic and social crisis from transformation into a green, feminist and left-wing. And you spoke the other day – and today you also said, Mr Aragones, at the investiture debate – about a government of the left. And I believe that Mr. Canadell here is to be recognized and appreciated for his sincerity. Mr Canadell said this week that if you want a left-wing government, asking for the vote of the thirty-two deputies and deputies of Juntes, therefore, it is not too logical. And he proposed to him to speak of a republican and cross-cutting government, which encloses Social-Democrats and which also encloses liberals. "This was a mistake of the candidate," said Mr. Canadell. I don't know if she's wrong. What seems to me is that we have a background problem here, if what you really want is a government of the left that gives you a progressive exit to the crisis. But it is that, moreover, today Mrs. Geis has said, literally, that they do not feel questioned and questioned by the Republican Left accord with the CUP. So, we don't understand what the artifact is that could come out for this new government, which we know, as I said, would have the obsolescence programmed. But there is not only a plural alternative to the left side of the various crises, but there is also a plural alternative in national terms, which would allow us to move forward, from the table of the dialect, to resolve the national conflict. There is a plural alternative that defends Catalonia's self-government and that the Generality is not submissive to a private entity such as the Council for the Republic. Because precisely, if we talk about republic, we talk about republican values. And the Republican values also defended those institutions where popular sovereignty, which is this Parliament, is wrong. We can build – and I am convinced that we can do it together – a new Republican Generality learning from past experiences, but obviously, updating it to the back of the 21st century, because historical moments are very different: experiences based on which the League was never and indeed republicans of various political signs – anarchists, socialists and communists. The same way that happened in other moments of our history, when we took a giant step in the right to education, now the new Republican Generality would have to face the difficult problem of segregation and end the privileges of the private and the concerta. The same way that happened in other moments of our history, when we took a giant step in the right to salvation, now the new Republican Generality would have to shield the public health changing the model for a truly public control, making a great social and political pact. Because if we're after something during the pandemic, it's that, in the end, always, the only ones that are there..., it's there public. The same way that happened in other moments of our history, when we took a giant step in terms of modernity, now the new Republican Generality has to make a leap in the ecological transition. The new Republican Generalitat has to be green yes or yes, we can't be on the cua, as we come... after two years, paralyzed in this sense. We cannot be at which, as I say, in renewables, at which in waste management, at which in the reduction of the plastic of a used sun, at which to know that we now need more trams and fewer motorways. We cannot let this opportunity of European foundations pass, because, moreover – and, moreover, the companies of the CUP have also commented on it – we know that there are some that they want to use because they always end up capitalizing and taking advantage of these foundations. Therefore, we must do so in a democratic way, in a participatory way, and that the various economic areas of the country can also participate. The same way it happened in other moments of our history, when we took a giant step in terms of equality, conquering rights for half the population, now, from the new Republican Generality, we must continue to advance in the rights of women. And the other day he referred to it, you, and to me he delighted me, sincerely, when he spoke of poor menstruals, when he spoke of "feminisms, in plural. But we have to go a lot further. And there are some issues..., I told them the other day, and now I want to insist again: national public system of cures. Because you talk about dependence, you talk about cures, but what is clear is that it has to be a public system, no one can be rich with the aging that our opinions and our lives deserve. Just like the right to awe in our country. We know it's not guaranteed on an equal footing in all territories. The other day I mentioned it and I want to repeat it: Lands of Lleida, Pirinius and Aran. The same way that happened in other moments of our history, when we took a giant step in terms of fraternity or national freedom, now the new Republican Generality will have to fight at the same time for the right to self-determination and for the possibility, also, of a plurinational republic, because without one there will be the other, as I knew Companies. And, therefore, this is the alternative that we offer. I said the other day: this pact is stalling, it's blocking the country, we see. The relationship between Junts and Esquerra Republicana is limited by constant struggles from many years ago. The word is so full that it prevents them from looking to the future, and we plant a government and a legislature with hope so that we can face all the challenges we have. You were talking about getting out of the comfort zone the other day. I think if you... besides, I would tell her that this was like a lot of coach. What I want to say to you is: if you want to be the president of the Generality, it would be more like a coach; so the coach has to set an example. And, therefore, just as you ask the rest of you to leave your comfort zone – and I told you that we go out every day – we ask you to leave your comfort zone, because what you're trying to do is repeat more of the same, but worse. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.18.0	Thank you very much. The words of Mr Carlos Carrizosa, president of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.19.0	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Madam President, I wanted to address you first. When you talked about the health, social emergency and added the emergency..., the supposed democratic emergency and you put on the same level the women killed by macho violence and the dead of the Mediterranean with the three_ thousand I don't know how many reprisals you say there are in Catalonia, you have done something disgusting. And I ask you to respect this Parliament, Madam President. If you want institutional respect, respect the institutions and respect these Members. And, when you make statements as president, you are in line with Rule 39 of the Rules of Procedure and respect the neutrality of your office. If you want to be respected, please respect your position. Do not do in this Parliament the law of the funnel, which is that the President speaks what Mr Batet or Mrs Geis would have to say. Madam President, I respect your institutional role so as not to disappoint the Catalans who think otherwise. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.20.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.21.0	No, Mrs. Borràs...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.22.0	...asks him to touch himself...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.23.0	If you're gonna answer me, let's stop the clock, Mrs. Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.24.0	Mr Carrizosa, I stop the clock, but I ask you to reach Rule 88, which is consistent with the debate. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.25.0	And you, if you want respect, respect us, Madam President. [[Greetings.]] Mr. candidate, starting now what is really the investiture session, I told him last Friday that he has Catalonia blocked with Junts because they need time to distribute their chiringuitos and their power wars. But perhaps the time has come for someone to explain to you that we are not in this investiture session to vote who presides over this ghostly Council for the Republic, but to see who presides over the Government of Catalonia. You have come so far in your contempt for the autonomy you have forgotten to give the presidency of the Generalitat the dignity it deserves. The other day I was on TV3 and listening to Mrs.Vilalta and Mrs.Artadi discuss heatedly almost most of the time about the Arcanes of the Consell per la República, how it is organized, what it has to be, what... I have studied law and have never studied an invention, an artifact like that that you make up and that takes up so much time, instead of the real problems of Catalans. To me the Consell per la República I care about a radish, I really say it; it is that I care about a dick. There I hope..., as long as you do not decide about vaccines, as long as you do not decide about unemployment and as long as you do not decide anything useful, talk about what you want, and do it where you want, but on TV, that you are debating about that artifact, the truth, seems to me indicative of what is happening in Catalonia. Look, you've forgotten you're ruling for all of us. It is that a government – a government – has an additional responsibility for the rest of the people we make politics. Because I can owe it to my constituents, but it's that you not only owe it to your constituents, you owe it to all the citizens of Catalonia. Make this shine and shine. The great responsibility you have..., honor you, this responsibility. Look, you're so excited to see what you're doing with Mr. Puigdemont, which is like an annoying thing that you have there, that you have it as something... that you haven't just given him a way out. What we want is what Montesquieu said, that power stands in the way of power. And you talk a lot about the « blackmail table and the government that parallel you want to set up in Waterloo. Who, according to the principles of Montesquieu, stops a blackmail table without institutional attachment or a gentleman who rides a chiringuito in Waterloo? That is not democratic; that is not democratic, it is not. There is no region of the world that is blocked in the midst of the pandemic because it has to form two governments, one real, even if it is a complete disaster, and another parallel, to satisfy the egos and prides wounded by party wars. They will allow me, as a liberal who defends the political centre, to express to them the irony that I am in no special hurry for you to constitute an anti-system government that has all the traces that will prepare a new coup. And you will also allow me a modest institutional council, which is that you follow certain parameters when forming government, stopping fighting for the charges and respecting and taking into account the plurality of Catalonia. Those resignations that I was talking about, those resignations that require those who are going to govern for all..., that they do not do so thinking only of the disputes that they have with their governing partners in the competences that they have for their own spaces, for the same political spaces or very similar ones. Look, we're going to ask you – since a government is not going to come out of here – that..., we're going to democratically demand you to run control sessions in whatever remains of your government's interinity. We need you, in the coming weeks, until your partners in Junts per Catalunya decide what you are going to do, not to be completely democratically out of control. I am looking at you all the time – I am talking to you, Mr Aragonès – and I see a candidate who is giving in to the anti-systems, who want to ruin Catalonia, so that, with that feeling of "the worse, the better, the broth of cultivation can be prepared for a new blow. And I also see what are the remains of the old Convergence demanding that the life train of a fugitive lord who declared the republic for eight seconds be maintained, which was his greatest achievement. And I also see, then, what the left-wing populists or the right-wing populists say, that, well, they want..., they don't value Catalonia's autonomy enough – some want to carry it, others want to make a nation... In short, no one appreciates our membership in the European Union. But what I do not see anywhere is common sense and the defence of the moderate and sensible policies that can get us out of this crisis. The oppressed, the real oppressed, I don't think it's in Catalonia these alleged reprisals that Mrs Borràs says, in which I suppose she's included, because she's being investigated for breaking contracts, and I suppose that, between those three-thousand and peaks, she, as she has that thesis that the state pursues her..., and being independent..., because I suppose she's included in those scientileuristic reprisals. I believe that those who are really oppressed are those who try to work and cannot; those hoteliers, those merchants who have lost everything or almost everything by trying to work during these months. I urge you, as a candidate, that there are enormous challenges to be faced in this Catalan autonomy and on the part of your President and your Government. We have those runaway companies – 5,500. We have five hundred thousand Catalans without a job. We have some..., we are the autonomous community, long, that has more own taxes and that more suffocates the middle and working classes with the IRPF sections. We must be the locomotive of Spain, but Madrid is surpassing us in gross domestic product. I told you all this the other day. We have to recover foreign investment in Catalonia. We have security issues. We're the ones with the most occupation. We have to increase the staff to the Mossos and provide them with more resources, and what the gentlemen of the CUP are asking you to do is to do the opposite, neglecting the people who do want to have cops in their neighborhoods and want to have a safe environment. And you put the concerted school in jeopardy. I told you, all this, the other day. We believe that those agreements which you want to pergeate and which we have already known a little bit about, are absolutely disconnected from reality. And we in Ciutadans believe that it is more necessary than ever to protect our system of rights and freedoms, the economic interests of businesses and of productive economic activity and of workers, precisely against nationalism, against populism and against anti-systems. Mr. Candidate, you are building your government on anti-system populism and nationalist coup. And, moreover, it has agreed to impose itself a toll to, in two years' time, go to the trash of history if it has not compromised with the blackmails and betrayals demanded of it by the CUP towards the citizens of Catalonia. These agreements of "everything is worth investing in will turn you into a hostage in a radical escalation to survive the question of trust. When Artur Mas decided that Convergència i Unió had to invade the independenceist space that symbolized the Republican Left and started the process, he ended up in the trash of history precisely victim of that idea, because the radicals of the CUP demanded it. And with the advent of Puigdemont a bid began between this one and Junqueras to see who the bet was higher: with state structures, with illegal referendum, with declaration of independence. And when Puigdemont was inclined to call elections and avoid 155 and all the subsequent disaster, the pressure of your supposed purity, of Republican Left, determined that everyone would end up throwing themselves into the abyss. And, Mr Aragonès, these bets that are coming up at this stage of negotiation in the independence forces between themselves take you away from the feeling of the majority of Catalans, from the management of real problems, from the loyal government for all, and irremistibly approaches you..., to be hostage to these bids between independence irremistibly approaches you to another blow to democracy. What is the use of being president if you make him subject to the perpetual blackmail of your own party, Junts per Catalunya, the CUP and the toxic relations between the three of you? I think you're not aware of how bad things are going to be in Catalonia. It is going to be the puppet of a radical escalation that will wipe out the institutions of our autonomy. That escalation is already evident in other areas. In public universities, for example, where the rectors want to impose compulsory one-on-one thinking and make propaganda in favor of prisoners who wanted to carry the Statute and the Constitution. This is one of the great democratic deficits we have in Catalonia, where there are directors who favor nothing less than the harassment of the dissident and nullify political pluralism. We have also seen how the escalation has come to an institution that should be crucial for economic development, which is the Chamber of Commerce, whose president has positively appreciated the entry of the UPC into the government despite the statements made today by Mrs Eulàlia Regant, to which I will refer later. And, in short, you are promoting a radical escalation, from all institutions, to make citizens believe that being a genuine Catalan is defending coup and defending the Koiné manifesto. Mr. candidate, in your speech on Friday you spoke of catalanity, an inclusive concept that has the potential virtue of uniting Catalans and helping us to leave behind the confrontation provoked by nationalism. But you want to impose on us a distorted catalanity, which is the one that does not know that the Spanish language is an inseparable part of Catalan culture. Just as Catalan is a Spanish language, Spanish is a Catalan language, and you do not accept it – you do not accept it. The former president of his party and former vice-president of the tripartite government, Carod Rovira, compared the Castilian in Catalonia with the Turkish in Germany. He also linked bullying to Spanish speaking students on TV3. The other day I went to TV3, and a Tertullian who was on the Puigdemont lists in the Europeans hurt me having expressed me in Spanish. And this reproach is the quintessence of linguistic nationalism that you defend. It is simply demented that that happens on public television in Catalonia, which has an intrinsically bilingual society. He can hardly defend Catalanity who advocates the exclusion of the Spanish from public life. What you advocate is nationalism, and nationalism is precisely the denial of catalanity. Mr Aragonès, fortunately, Catalan society is much more respectful of its own plurality than its rulers. And, in this sense, let me tell you that I can't help but feel some relief when I see that you still don't agree. Because your background and what we've been getting to know, through the press, of your negotiations is to shake. I feel relief as a citizen, because I know that Catalan society is resilient, entrepreneurial and industrious. And yesterday, Mr Aragonès, I saw two things that perfectly reflect this that I say to you: that Catalan society, our autonomous, our entrepreneurs, our companies, continue to do important things in the world despite the devastating political landscape that you have left in our community. Yesterday I was eating in a restaurant near the Palau Robert, and it was attended by a marriage originating in Perpignan, and they had assembled it in August. And they told me that they had mounted another one on the walk of Grace, in a place that unfortunately has become empty. And I said to them, "How brave, how brave are you. I was almost about to thank them. And also..., this is one of the things he gave me yesterday..., I thought: "Well, less bad. And the other day, too, I saw the star of « la Caixa, designed by a universal Catalan like Joan Miró, in Madrid. It is the observation that the cooperation between Catalonia and Madrid, between Catalans and Madrid, remains an inexhaustible source of economic and social progress. This fusion between the Caixa and Bankia – already those of the nervous CUP: "Ah, the IBEX! – which is the tenth largest bank in Europe, is the antithesis of separatism and process. Few countries in the world can boast of such a powerful axis in cultural, economic, political, and so on, as Spain with the Barcelona-Madrid axis. Mr. Aragonès, the CUP has asked you– and that's what I meant with Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant –..., you have asked her today to say whether she is at the company's side or at the people's side, which is – and she knows it very well, because those of the CUP are delighted in this kind of populist discourse– either they or us, or one or the other, or the entrepreneurs or the people. Mrs. Regant, entrepreneurs are people, and people work for other people, and entrepreneurs give jobs to other people. And they are all citizens who build – as I told you with the lords of this restaurant, of these restaurants that have opened – our productive economy. It is good enough to put entrepreneurs at the forefront of their prejudices. And it is already good that the fact of forming a government in Catalonia has to put people who give us prosperity in the spotlight. I, as a Catalan and son of self-employed people, want to claim today the joint effort and work of so many citizens who are workers and employers. And in recent months we have been concerned about the political situation and the progress of the economy. Put yourself to the things, Mr Aragonès – as Ortega said – to the real problems of Catalans; to that you must dedicate yourselves. Stop subordinating Catalan policy to unrealizable projects, which are not shared by the majority of Catalans. And I'm also telling you this because you, with that of 52 percent of the last election, that half of half..., I'm telling you we're scared, I told you the other day. Think about it when you have to form a government. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.26.0	Next is the words of Mr.Alejandro Fernández, president-portaveu of the Group Mixt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.27.0	Thank you very much, President. I would like to start this intervention by moving an idea face-to-face, I hope, to the proper development of this legislature, if it finally develops. And I think... we're in a parliament, this is a parliament. Here the ideas are debated and clashed with other ideas and with the use of the word, not constantly doing the cinnamon with performances and outputs and inputs of a full. I say this because you in the Congress of Deputies don't. They show more respect, paradoxically, for the Congress of Deputies than for the Parliament of Catalonia; curious way to claim Catalan institutions. Therefore, I think it would be important for us all to take note of this in view of the image we give to citizenship as a political class in general – I do not like the term ‘political class, but it is the one that has been accepted. [[Greetings.]] Well, I also wanted to share... (Fon Veus)... applaud you too, I think I've been brilliant (Laughter), i.e. neither..., no..., if you like. I also wanted to share with you some data, which in the last few hours would have to be updated, on the pandemic, and that is that the risk of rebound has risen to eight points, up to 232; the rate of transmission has risen to 1,13, and the incidence, from 197 to 211 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. They are not catastrophic data, but they are very disturbing. And why transfer them here? Because the discrepancies we have heard about why it is not going to become government today and it is not going to be appointed president have had nothing to do with this either with vaccination or with the economy. In the end, the problem is always Waterloo. And, moreover, it seems to be quantified; it seems that the problem is exactly 1_million_euro for Waterloo to continue watering its structure – « maniac house, as Salvador Sostres defined it. I won't say that much, but it is true that everything that surrounds Waterloo, despite having that already eccentric, ghostly tone and in some freaky moments, continues to maintain a negative influence and a capacity to condition and severely discredit Catalan institutions. It's about time we broke that umbilical cord. And I say it to whoever has to hear it. Because, Mr. Aragonès, from Waterloo they've decided to humiliate him. And one thing is humility, which I claimed, and you too the other day in your speech, and another very different thing is systematic humiliation, and, moreover, from an entity that does not have the legitimacy to lead Catalan politics, but that is that you are so afraid to be called «botifler... But I must tell you one thing: you are already doing it, and you will continue to do it. And you should get used to it and assume it. Maybe he could use a little time in the Catalan PP to learn how to better digest criticism. [[relays]] ; I carry them with great naturality [[remorse of the voice]] - No, no, no, I see that it affects you, you are not able to get out of that kind of blackmail and psychological Stockholm syndrome with those who call you "botifler". In any case, everything that has happened in the last few days confirms that he was right when on Friday he pointed out that this goes neither of self-determination nor of amnesty, that they are the alibis for entertaining the parish, but that everyone – I insist, even the parish itself – sees absolutely impossible; it goes of power and hegemony. They do not accept, Mr Aragonès, that you send. I can assure you that it's not something I'm particularly worried about either, but I'm moving it because I am. And if they accept him, so that there is no electoral repetition, he will be leaving him grieving, eroded and deeply discredited, with two failed investitures in an unprecedented scenario. It seems a lie that I have to come, precisely me, to say this to you, this evidence that everyone sees, but that gives the feeling that you do not see. I would also like to refer to something that has drawn my attention to Mr. Salvador Illa's speech – I cannot help it – and that is that he has bitterly complained that Esquerra Republicana – and I quote you textually – « has vetoed them for the dialogue of the formation of a government. Do you realize that you just admitted that you lied like a bellaco– forgive the force– in an election campaign saying that you would never negotiate with Esquerra a government? It's just that you just said it to an open grave, and it's gotten so wide. You have every right in the world to try and rehearse a government with Esquerra and with the commons; to what you had no right was to lie systematically in an election campaign. And that's what he did. And he fooled a lot of Catalans in good faith, who thought you had other priorities and other options. And that also shows that political marketing operations, even if they can be successful in the short term, never end up solving the issues. Because you relied on two fictions: the Illa effect and the dialogue table. Besides, with a certain arrogance, right? It was: "Be apart all of you, that here I am; leave me alone, that I will unlock everything. Well, it's not as bad as it's unlocked it. See how things are going: no Illa effect, no dialogue table, no relaxation. I repeat: you see how things are. But they won't learn. And they won't learn the lesson because they don't want to learn it. Because the bottom line of the problem is that you, despite what is happening here, have been chosen as partners in Madrid, which is the real problem of Catalan politics and of all Spanish politics. You've done too many pyromaniac firefighters for too long, causing a fire; then you set out and volunteered to turn it off, but the fire had already gone completely out of hand. Others will have to come and turn it off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.28.0	Mr Sergi Sabrià, deputy of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.29.0	President, candidate Aragonès, deputies, deputies... We had another historic opportunity, an opportunity to invest a Republican president of the most voted Independence Party in the polls, to help the country nationally and socially get out; a country that needs it, and everyone, everyone here knows that it needs it. But we'll take it off again, another time. And we sincerely appreciate the change in everything, but that doesn't take the gravity out of forbearance. And he knows a lot about it, because it's the people who lose it. We're missing a historic opportunity to put independence, once more and urgently, in the service of the people. Independence to achieve social justice: few things sum up so well what we want, that we move and why we are here. The Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, we have remembered President Francesc Macià to give up the debate, aware that what we want then – independence, social justice, work, culture – is exactly the same as we want now, and it is exactly the same that makes us maintain today, on Tuesdays, the hope that the agreements of independence are, must be possible. Today we take this intervention with an idea from the President of Esquerra, the political press Oriol Junqueras. We could choose many of them, from Oriol's quotes, but in this fragment it put in value that, despite the differences, we have always known how to build agreements, and we are all aware that it is when we have agreed that the country has advanced. He said: "On some occasions, at the length of history, the differences between the spaces that probably today represent Republican Left and Convergence, these differences, at some points in the history of the country, have been able to overcome themselves in order to overcome great challenges. At the beginning of the 20th century in the construction of the institutions of the Commonwealth of Catalonia, for example. And he continued: "A few agreements of these spaces that were sure – sure – important in the restoration of democratic institutions in our country at the end of the decade of the 70s or at the beginning of the decade of the 80s of the 20th century. And some agreements that can also be important because our country has the best tools, the very first tools of a state to face the challenges facing us in the future. This is perfectly compatible with the fact that we continue to defend in certain areas of sectoral policies models that are different and that we will have to go through each day. Junqueras said these words in 2012, despite, in the investiture debate of President Mas, before voting there, obviously, in favor. Then we still didn't know what would come next either on the national road or for what it does for social advancements. Now, today, from the perspective of the years, I could add to this set of examples the 9-N, U of October agreements, the agreements for the different coalition governments that we have jointly made, the agreements that we have always had enough to bring forward this country. The 2012 Esquerra voted in favour of that investment by responsibility, because we have to be able to hear each other. Losing opportunities is not a right or an option that we have right now, in the midst of the pandemic, in the midst of national, social, economic, health care, and also – and also – in the midst of repressive emergence. If we've done it some other time, this time, even though the returns have changed, we also have to do it. If ERC has invested so many times a president of its space, it must also be possible to reverse – it must also be possible to reverse. It is obvious that today we are missing an opportunity that surely the people of this country will not just hear. Today's forbearance makes the country stay in standby and makes an account that is absolutely unnecessary for us. The same way that the elections of the 14th of February were imposed and we do not want them by health care responsibility, now it has no sense – no sense – to keep the country in a situation of provisionality. Playing with time is putting in front of the particular interest instead of putting in front of the collective needs. It's a shared strategy, because when we go to one, it's when we move forward. We know that there is no shield – no shield – insurmountable. That's why we work and work until we reach this agreement that the country needs. Actually, that's what we've done the last six weeks. We've gathered drawings of hours these last few days, tricks and parallels to the band. We've switched to eight work papers and we've tried again in the extremes this week. If your great shield is saved, if we all agree that it is necessary to reformulate the Council for the Republic, if we have now found – in a proposal that has been put on the table by ERC – the solution, where do we have sugar now? Welcome follow the proposal made by the Council itself. It's a good instrument, but it was a tool on the side with a lot of malfunctions, and calia..., to reformulate it. So we've been moving it from one day to another in Catalonia, and we're sharing it with the rest of the institutions we're not supposed to be part of. So, som-hi, a minor shield, a disappearing shield. And, therefore, we understand that with this we are all much closer to the solution. Topic solved. With this in hand, we now ask Junts for responsibility. We're not running out of time. The country and its people need it now, I needed it yesterday, not two months from now. And we ask the same thing that we have always done since Esquerra – without going any further, a few days ago, with the support of President Borrás in the constitution of Parliament –: responsibility. The agreement must be possible, because social and economic emergencies cannot wait, they cannot wait. Precisely because of this, today, here, we need to talk about lost opportunity. Today I could start walking a legislature that has to help this country get out. No social progress has been made at the national level; and on the other hand, exactly the same. That's why this last month and a half we've been working hard to unblock a representative agreement from the polls to make a stable, just, social government that guarantees rights and freedoms; an independent government; a government that has a clear and public social axis to get out of the crisis. That is precisely why we have insisted on the last few hours in a new call to make it possible. It's got to be three-way, I guess. Without compromise or co-responsibility, it will make it impossible to move forward. We made it clear that this fever gave us the opportunity to build a new Republican Generality a few years later. And we thank the CUP for its sincere effort in negotiating. We've left hours and hours, and we'll go back to leaving another time, because, honestly, there's no other alternative. I will not tire of repeating that today we see how it intersects between the said another opportunity. We're going to trust you today. Today we trust tomorrow. And they're not worth an apology, they're not worth any longer. Digestion can be slow – it can be slow – but it cannot be infinite. There is no time to lose, and who loses consciously will have to explain it very well. The unit that is so much proclaimed, that has been used so often to launch it at each other's head, now left, when there was an attempt to stop. Mass a little together and mass alone, I'd say. And it's a big deal. And I promise you, it's not because Republican Left didn't try. And it's fine – it's fine –, Mrs. Geis, come speak of unity in Madrid. But the unit, more than preaching, what we have to do is exercise it, and today we have an opportunity. A second abstention today is to re-abstain from the responsibilities that the polls made for us, to avoid the votes again, not to listen to the people; some citizens who say that independence is a majority, that we are more than 50_per_cent and that the country has moved towards the left, and that it is time to agree for a just and independent government, a government led by Pere Aragonès. And that's the unit. And every day we don't make it from the city of this country. And it's a big deal, because we'll have to hear each other – we'll have to hear each other. That's why the Republican Left's compromise is unequivocal in unravelling this new government. And we are sure – sure –..., today we are sure that we will get out of it. Who wouldn't want you to be okay? We've heard the whole opposition again today, and we've seen another time that there's no alternative. They themselves know that there is no alternative. Honestly, we've only seen one president, as much as we have today. We only saw one: Pere Aragonès. We want Pere Aragonès to lead a new republican, ambitious, future Generality, with the unforgivable miracle of 1931, which we claim, proud to be his heretics. As at 31, we now need a government to move forward, to move forward in the day to day. But we don't just want to live from the past; we need to walk, we need to help people, now and today, with democratic debates, of course, and with social measures, without complex measures, too. Because the strike must not only be national, the strike must also be social. The two last governments of the Generality have sown the work of the new Republican Generality, have captivated those details that we have found and have forged social foundations, a job that now, when the more we need, when it comes to rebuilding the country, allows us to take a step forward, tackle reconstruction with ambition and above all – above all – with the will to transform. If today we can talk about a pilot program for a universal basic income is because we have the experience of guaranteed citizenship income and also because we have developed mechanisms and organizations for evaluating public policies without comparison with the State. If today we can talk about a rescue plan of 700_million euros is because we have placed order on the Generality's accounts, because we have come out of the retail pit and because we have worked for the sustainability of our welfare state. If today we can talk about the gratuity of zero-three is because Councillor Bargalló and the future President Aragones have regained the participation of the Generality in the financing of education from zero to three years. It is all this piece of work that allows today a way out of the crisis that was different from the year 2008, which allows us to compromise together with an agenda that must be transformative, where the Generality leaders from a clearly left and republican vision. Yesterday, the Government, with Councillor El Homrani in front, in coordination with the local world and the deputies, announced a historic agreement against the poor energy that will allow to discharge a debt of up to 21_million euros and that affects up to 35,500 families in a situation of poor energy. All this is social policies that fit into this new Republican Generality. And the agreement we signed with the CUP, too. In fact, these are proposals that the Republicans and the Republicans want to complete, proposals that we need to complete. And abstaining doesn't seem like a good option; it's, in fact, delaying the opportunity we have now to work for people and do it from the left. And that shouldn't bother Junts for Catalonia – it shouldn't bother Junts for Catalonia. And we'll have to do it with the tools we have, with the resources we have in this while, that we don't like, because they're not the tools or the resources that the people of this country deserve. But not doing it is not the solution. And we have one thing very clear: in this while we are still working for everyone, always working for the option that favors the most and protects the people of this country. To do this for all the citizens, to speak the language they speak, to see where they viscose and come from, always showing independence as the most useful tool, as a transformation project for the country, a project just and always for everyone. That is why we are independent and defend that the independence of this country is the best solution to guarantee all our rights: to move away from a fallen state, to whitewash and not to question the monarchy or corruption, to suppress political and artistic dissent, to attack our language and culture. Independence and the Catalan Republic are for us a tool of social transformation. And that's why our political horizon is victory, because it's the only way to resolve the conflict with the State. To do so is to exercise self-determination and achieve amnesty for reprisals in this, which is a general cause. And that is why a new democratic debate forms part, also, of our agreement with the UPC. We want to draw up the necessary conditions for the length of this legislature, and we want it to be preferably in the form of a reference. I'm sorry I didn't come up with an independent election program, the truth. That we do not want to renounce the flag of the dial does not mean that we remain naive, on the contrary: we know very well who we have in front of us and that they will never do it by will, only because they are strong enough and because we are prepared to force them there. No fan, if he has to do it, and I've said it many times. I'm done. We know, as all independents and leftists know, that there is no alternative to it, it is still more incomprehensible that today candidate Pere Aragonès does not invest in the president of the Generality of this session. We missed an opportunity. And it hurts, because we had a good proposal on our hands. We had an opportunity today to sneak in. It is the responsibility of all independence – at all – not to mismatch this 14th most of February and fix an independent government as soon as possible. We have heard from the words of Juntes that they also share it. Make it possible. We are sure that recovering the independenceist strategy unity that we all want does not pass by to leave the opportunities that present themselves. We lose one today, but it will be the last; it must be the last opportunity we lose. MPs, MPs, candidate, time is hard, and I know that we will not allow any more opportunity to make an independent, republican and progressive government. The new Republican Generality is as desired as inevitable, because so it was dictated by the ballot boxes, because the land we live in demands it for its own people. Serving the country is precisely being at the side of people all the time. They owe it to the people who put their trust in all of us, the trust that we would be able to agree to pull this country forward. Serving the country; if we've done it at other complicated times, we'll know it now. Maybe today..., I'm sure it won't happen yet, but we're sure – sure – it will. We will have an independent and left-wing government, we will have a new Republican Generality; a government committed to the Catalan Republic and the reconstruction of the country from the left. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.30.0	The speeches of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, all followed, to answer, has the words of Mr Pere Aragonès, candidate for the presidency of the Generalitat of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.31.0	Thank you very much, President. Companies and companies, honourable members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament... I will try, with this intervention, to answer some of the arguments raised by representatives of the different parliamentary groups, and I will also encourage them to do so because, in a few minutes' time, those who still do not support the birth of this new Republican Generality change their parenting and allow the constitution of a government that focuses on dealing with the situation arising from the pandemic, on social and economic reconstruction and on day-to-day emergencies, and also on a resolute approach to what is the resolution of the political conflict with the Spanish State. I begin by making some comments on what was the intervention of the representative of the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, Mr. Salvador Illa, who started with a quote from President Maragall. A quote from President Maragall who... you certainly took a share of it and forgot the context. September 11, 2005. Then, in this Parliament of Catalonia, the proposal for a Statute of Autonomy, the Statute of Autonomy that was not only retaliated, was approved – for this reason some people voted that there was no campaign against, but we accepted the result, as we would always accept any result of a referendum made by the citizens of Catalonia –..., which was then retaliated by the Constitutional Court; that before that retaliated we found a policy of fallen arms of the government of the PSOE of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, and that eleven years later – eleven years later – they did not put forward a proposal, an alternative, a solution on the table. [[Greetings.]] You said: "He's trying to read these words in the present time. And as a scab – and as a scab. Not only for the present time, but for all this time spent, where, before the democratic will of the independentist proposal, you have only returned with a no and with a passing page that you want to equate to resignation. And we don't resign, because we've come here to gain the independence of our country to build a fairer and more early society for everyone. [[Greetings.]] We've heard some stories, too, very close to left-wing debates. In fact, these days, in this investiture debate, which we have made so many quotes... let me make a recommendation: today I haven't talked about Karl Marx, and, therefore, I don't think anyone has been frightened, but I will talk about Andreu Nin. And Andreu Nin had a book on the movements of national emancipation, and clearly explains why this false idea of opposing the left with national liberation, with the freedom of a country... is the privilege of having those who already have one. Because nationalism..., for whom they have a state that protects their birth vision, nationalism is always the others – nationalism is always the others. Division is not repression, it is not inequalities; division is always the others. I think this is an example of a certain ideological superiority that we should be able to overcome, if we want to build a Catalonia where everyone feels represented. You're sick, and I think I have to say it, huh? With all the cordiality and all the personal respect, but... I don't think you've listened to me. He didn't listen to me today. He didn't listen to me last time. He didn't listen to the investment speech. He didn't listen to what was the outcome of February 14th, which establishes an orderly... [[Rialles.]] Yes, yes... And who will vote for them, you? Who can you make alliances with? [[Greetings.]] So look, today we'll have more votes than you can have – now we'll have more votes than you can have – because the important thing is the ability of alliances. I passed the Pleth of the past selling and the one today looking for alliances. You only talk about passing the page, as if there has been no repression, as if there has been no U of October, in this country. And what we're doing – and I said we're selling it – is writing new pages. He asked us what should happen – he certainly said it with a greater deal, today, than you don't divendres–..., what should happen, he asked us, with the workers of Bosch and Nissan. So look, with Bosch's workers, do you know what needs to happen? Derogate labor reform. That's what needs to happen. [[Greetings.]] That's what needs to happen. Because when we went there fifteen days ago, I went to Lliça d'Amunto to meet with the representatives of the business committee – we went there with the Treball advisor, with the El Homrani advisor – they told us that since the Government of Catalonia we use the powers we have in the processing of the employment regulation dispatches to stop the shutdown. If we had repealed the labour reform, we could have put on the table the amount we have in the administrative authority of the EROs, which we had; that the labour reform of the PP went away and that you, as you have not repealed, kept it, and we could have put up with it. So, what's going to happen? That they do the work – that they do the work. Which, of course, was a compromise of his in the legislature at the Congress of Deputies and which they did not complete. I believe that you do not know the votes, because, beyond normality, more than thirty-three Members of the Socialist Party, who represent a very important part of Catalonia, who believe that you are also called upon to participate in consensus in many areas than we have to debate in this Parliament, and I commit myself to reaching consensus with opposition in many areas, obviously... but I believe that more than that of ordinaryity what you cannot do is to ignore the votes. And they can already make all the calculations about the electoral census, but if the independenceists, despite having obtained 52_percent of the electoral census, represent that we represent only 25_percent, you do not arrive at '11_percent of the votes. Therefore, I believe that if we make these numbers, we make them for everyone, apply it to you. I think we need to leave behind – we need to leave behind – the old phrases of debates that are produced many years ago and that I think that if we want to build a new country, we need to overcome them. No one here has talked about good and bad Catalans; no one has. And no one will ever hear me say a word classifying Catalans as good or bad depending on what they vote, depending on what they think, depending on what they talk, depending on what they say or depending on what they think. More. And they'll never be able to say that about me. Because I've always made it very clear that Catalonia is a people's land and Catalonia is a nation – I said I'm selling and I'm saying it again today. [[applause]] – and we'll build it folded. Because because of the circumstances of vital trajectories, from which we live... the independenceists have been a minority for a long time. For a long time we have been the sympathetic minority that, when 1989 we brought the right to self-determination in this Parliament, even the whole PSC allowed a joy to abstain, right? Because it can be done. The nice minority, which... the problem is when it comes up to being the majority. But I have always made it very clear that Catalan society is plural and diverse, and fate is there, and that for many years it continues to feel that way. And that's why, when I say I want to be a president for everyone, it's for everyone; from strong republican and left-wing independence convictions, I won't fool anyone, but I'm addressing everyone. Because when we come to agreements, when we get steps forward, when we get social rights back... when we make an economic policy for people, the one for everyone. Therefore, in this legislature I am convinced – and now the quote to you – that we will be for what we have to be for, but for what we have to be for, you will not decide, I will decide the conjunction of this Parliament. [[Greetings.]] Together for Catalonia..., I want to begin by highlighting elements of Mrs Geis' speech that are shared and that I think are a good basis for the work we have to do in the next few days and weeks. He has highlighted the idea of various countries, various countries in addition: in the vital trajectories, in the social, economic, ideological and linguistic fields. And I think this diversity is, as I said now, one of the great acts of our country that we must preserve, and it is its strength. And, in fact, this diversity – and then I will talk about it, in the only reference to the deputy of VOX that I will make –..., but precisely this diversity and this plurality is the one that gives more strength than ever to the political project that we share of the independence of Catalonia. Secondly, I also want to highlight the coincidence in the recognition of the full functions of the institutions of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Because the full functions of the institutions of the Government of Catalonia have tried to be handled by the Spanish State as well. And, therefore, we must also defend in front of all the institutions of the State that try to limit their functions. But there are also elements that I can't agree with. And I can't agree because I think that when you have listed, for sure, proposals for government in the social, economic, territorial, in the area of feminist struggle, which I believe we share, and I haven't seen that it was an obstacle – I think that there may be questions of matter that can be resolved very quickly –... I think that when you have listed the proposals for government and the need to add strategies and the need to put it all to the service of the country in order to move forward, I haven't seen any obstacle that prevents me from voting for my investiture today as President of the Catalan Government. Each school manages the times of a negotiation as it considers legitimate, and here, in any case, each school will be able to do the review as it has done, but we have been setting up since the first moment – and the Sabrià deputy said – the need to be able to address government program, governance structure and responsibilities. Legitimately, they wanted to place other elements ahead of the negotiation. Listen, I want your votes; therefore, the negotiation will not go just as the Republican Left of Catalonia wants, but will depend on how we play between the two. I think we need to be able to approach it now, that we have a few days ahead of us, that we need to be able to get into these elements to finish closing... because, frankly, I don't understand that there are enough reasons why today there can't be an investiture. And I end the reference to Together for Catalonia with which we certainly have a functioning government, a functioning government that can do things – he quoted this historic agreement from yesterday – but can't do everything. I, like the Vice President of the Generality who is exercising the functions of the Presidency, from here until the investiture debate I will exercise fully, until the limit permitted by the law, the functions of the Presidency of the Generality, with the limitations of an electoral period and with the specific limitations of the Vice-President. I will do so in full, because I believe that the country cannot accept any longer; it cannot accept, in a situation of emergencies, that we are entertaining ourselves unnecessarily. They ask one thing: that I do not keep it indefinitely, that I certainly give to the citizenry of Catalonia, that I certainly give to all those who in the proper days and the proper weeks need the ability to set objectives, to be able to plan, because the emergencies of the country are many. So he's asking you for this, too. And I insist, I don't think there are enough reasons – you think so – because today you don't vote for the investiture. In any case, if the vote goes any further, I think it will be clear that today there was not enough reason, and I insist on it because today I can change the vote. With regard to VOX's intervention, I had no intention of answering, because I think he is responding to himself, his speech, but there is a reflection that he wanted to do, and not only for part of the intervention that VOX has made, but many times I have felt it, especially in the speeches of Spanish nationalism, in this chamber. I believe that we must demand, and I demand, that no one patrimony the origins of a very important part of the citizenship of this country that we have our origins outside Catalonia. No one can patrimoniate them. I will not do it from independence, and therefore I demand that no one do it, that no one is put to the mouth in this Parliament that speaks exclusively for whom we are net of people who came from Andalusia to forge a future. I feel very proud– very proud– to be the net of Antonio and Juana, of Palomares, pedany of the municipality of Cuevas de Almanzora, who came to Catalonia to look for a better future for those who are putting their daughters, for my mother and mine. And I feel very proud. And I know it makes those who want a speech from the two Catalonians, those who want independence and Catalanism to have an ethnic view of the country based on their origins... I know it makes them very angry, this plurality. So look, I'm very proud that the net of Antonio and Juana may be in the future, in the proper weeks and – I hope – in the proper days, the new Republican Left President of the Generality of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] Because our country does not look at the project that I have come here to defend, and that we have defended so many, too many options that do not defend the independence of Catalonia, but that project a future for the country. Our project is a project that doesn't look at the origins, but looks at the right ones, and I think that's what we always have to defend. The Popular Unity Candidacy... as I did the past diverging, I don't just reiterate the gratitude... because I think we've come to an agreement that's a good starting point, and as a good starting point I promise to expand it, to make it come true and to work on it from the very first moment. Mrs Reguant has clearly placed many of the challenges that we share in good part of the analysis, and also some and a good part of the proposals. That's why we've come to a good deal, and I think we have a good deal, that it's a basic program from where we build a powerful agenda, transformation for our own legislature. He said: "We propose a feasible alternative. So let's do it – let's do it. And I think that we have done this in this agreement, not only in the area of housing, in the area of how to combat social exclusions; in the area, for example, of one of the elements that the Member has set up, and that I spoke about the past divendres, of this forced loneliness of so many people. We face all these challenges with the tools we have – limited, certainly – and those we don't have, we build them. And I think that's what we share with the Popular Unity Candidate, this idea. And that's exactly why we signed this agreement, which is a basic program, with different accents and approaches, because that's why we're two candidates, two different projects, but it's a basic program from where we build a whole agenda to transform our own legislature. Precisely, from the Republican Left, as Congressman Sabrià has said, we commit ourselves to working there, and obviously, if I invest in the president I will also do it from the presidency. I'm left with an expression that has served Congresswoman Regunant, and I'm going to make it a complement that serves us to... as a basic idea of this legislature. Congresswoman Reguant spoke of the accumulation of heavyweights. He said: "We have had a buildup of weights, there is not enough to make a buildup of weights. This legislature must move from the accumulation of burdens to the accumulation of forces to ultimately gain. And I think that with the agreement that we share is absolutely possible. In Catalonia we can... I think you've been through a bit – with a lot of distance, huh? – the one who passed him to the Socialist Party, when he talks about the fact that nationalism is the others. He talked about game logic. You also have a game logic, and I think I have to accept that In Comú We can also have a game logic. It's not just the others, who are moving in the logic of games, but probably you too. Because today you could take a step forward. I think we share a concept that he has repeatedly served in his speech, and that I must say that I am glad that he serves, that this is this new stage of the new Republican Generality. For me what you are proposing is not an alternative to which I am working to build, but it must be a more element of the sum, and this is the broad path that we have proposed. Perhaps we will not get there yet, but I am convinced that the solution to many of the challenges facing this country, not only in the national question, but also in the social and economic spheres, will have to start from this far and wide, that if it is not yet at all, I am convinced that it will be very soon. I also referred to the need for the strategic coordination of independence to be made possible by the recognition of all areas, but it is clear that the institutions of the Generality..., neither this Parliament nor the Government nor the Presidency are submissive to either guardianship or substitution, nor to the State. And here we have to put forward a clear agenda of defence of which our functions are, of which is the representation of the country and to take all the decisions that correspond to us in order to advance the country. And finally, about the system of cures, which we haven't talked about, I think there's a lot of deures to do. And one of the gods, for example, is that the Spanish State signifies the ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention 189, which has been pending since 2011. This Parliament has approved that we adhere to it, but since we are not yet a state, we cannot ratify it. Please ratify it for us. And, finally, I end with... Well, anyway, to the deputy of the People's Party..., not pateixi – not pateixi –, Mr Fernández. For years of history, the Republican Left of Catalonia has not fallen; it will not be accused of botifler or anything else. I will continue to defend my ideals. I take many years to defend the independence of the country. When some of us today, from anonymity, may demand books of pureness, do... in those years, therefore, leave us alone defending the idea of the independence of the country. Therefore, in this sense, I do not feel sorry, that complexes do not have any, I believe, and of this, still less. I, finally, Ciutadans. It seems that the verbal radicalism of the later legislature, and of the chrism, which tried to reproduce the past diverdres, has seen that it has a right-wing competence, much to the right, and has chosen in some other way perhaps a little more its own. In any case, I think it's still based on an idea of a country that we don't share, and we'll defend the opposition democratically. Let them say one thing: for a party that has defended a reductionist view of the autonomic mark, as you have done, that you have come to explain how an exhibition of acts that has catalanity the experience of two people of Perpinya, economics, is poetic prose– is poetic prose– [[applause]] Mr. Carrizosa. I know he didn't do it with this intention – I know he didn't do it with this intention – but... I think it's important that at a time of so much difficulty as the country's patenting we put ourselves to work all without delay. Because there are a lot of people who ask us that that hope they have to build a better country... and ask us, and it has placed responsibility on all of us, that we bring it forward. Today we have the proposal, today we all have a programme, a clear proposal; only the will remains. And so, that's why they ask all the deputies and deputies that we make this possible and that today we leave here with a government on the march, with a new presidency of the Generality, and that we set out to walk. Because the country and the situation of social and economic urgency and also of national urgency ask us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.32.0	Thank you very much. Further, as the response has been joint for all parliamentary groups, according to Rule 149.2 of the Rules of Procedure, it would now be in place to replicate each of the parliamentary groups for a time proportional to the time the candidate has worked. Since the candidate's answer was 20 minutes, it would be a three-minute turn for each parliamentary group. Tanmateix, like the CUP Group - A New Cycle for Winning has asked us a decade at this time, we will make a decade of just minutes. Okay? Thank you. [[Long break.]] Please, it's already three-quarters. If you may, we will begin this reply by parliamentary groups. In the first place, has the word the Lord Salvador Illa, on behalf of the Socialists Group and Units per Avançar. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.33.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. candidate, I would like to thank you, first of all, who is concerned about who will vote for me, but today, a day when you will not exactly come out of this debate in political terms, perhaps better than you are concerned about your investiture, who will vote for you. In the second place, an evidence: to write new pages, you must pass on page. And you're still writing the page we've read – and we're tired of doing it – the last two years in Catalonia. Third place, I won't play political ping-pong with you. It's never guilt, anything that goes wrong, from you – never –; it's always someone else's fault. Merits are all for you, but it's never your fault. Visit Nissan, visit Bosch, visit companies that have problems, stand next to their workers and exercise the skills you have as president in the Generality functions to solve the problems of the citizenry. [[Greetings.]] In fourth place, his establishment of legislature is divided and addresses the half of the people of Catalonia. And this isn't the layout Catalonia needs today. And, in five places...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.34.0	One moment, Mr. Illa, I'm told they don't feel right, and now I've asked if they can push the volume, because yours... [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.35.0	If'msent better, now?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.36.0	[[For technical reasons, the President's intervention has not been recorded.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.56.0	And in five places, I end up petitioning him: tell him the truth and work not to divide. They carry two years of tarnishing the Catalan society of falsehoods, of vain promises, and all and every one of their promises go as they go and are showing how they are, a great deception. They want to stretch the stage by forcing words, creating postage institutions and promising impossible new foods. They're at the end of the escape, but the time of truth has come for everyone, also for you. You can still catch your little bit behind more words and promises or do something simpler: say in public what you already recognize in private, that your path doesn't take place. [[Greetings.]] They've failed. There is no goal, there is no Ithaca; there are only words and more words. And, behind the words, arguments, decay and division. A division that affects Catalan society and now confronts you and paralyzes our institutions. It's very simple, I have the value of saying in public what they already recognize in low view. It's over. It's not possible, even in this generation it won't pass. Your project has failed. So simple. But if they regard Catalonia as being proclaimed every minute, if they care about salvation, occupation, the well-being of Catalans, they ask them not to run Catalonia behind the fracs of their failed project of process. [[Greetings.]] And, as long as his only support that he can show here today is that of the CUP, and he's had the ability to devote some words to me, I want to address Mrs. Regant right now, very briefly. To tell you, in the first place, Mrs. Reguant, that you have all my respect and have – I would just miss – all the right to express your opinions, even all this soft conceptual garb that I, at least, find difficult to follow. And I have all the right, and I would say more, the obligation, to say to him: "Condemn the violence and give support to the Rocket. As long as you don't do it, whoever gets their credibility back is exactly zero. They aspire to solve everything. They've never fixed anything, and that way they'll never solve anything. The mambo? For you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.37.0	Member Gemma Geis, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, continues to speak. Come on, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.38.0	Thank you. Well, after listening to Deputy Illa... I didn't think I'd answer him there, but he does make some statements that they're very dangerous. When you say that Catalonia's citizenry is deceiving a deception... it's less than every person who freely casts his vote. And we will never defend a model of Catalonia in which, whatever the election result, we consider it to be a deception. Because that's why we need a country's mature politics and its voters, and here he'll never find us. [[Greetings.]] Second. I'll never tell anyone who needs to be and what you need to be. I understand that every person believes who they want and presumes... and I will not give lessons to anyone who has to be esteemed or not to be esteemed. What you've made reference to before is that we have to move from scrapping to solvency. And, of course, you have so far been a minister, a minister of health, in a pandemic. He was a minister. And it turns out that, of course, he talks to us about solvency, but it turns out that the first autonomous community, with President Torra in the lead, and the Councilwoman of Salut..., is the one that says we're wearing masks. You, as Minister of Health, the first one you do is to refocus the skills of Health. And we also know what difficulties we had in managing the material to protect us from the pandemic. So, when I talk about unravelling – you say that we always say that the culprits are the others –..., we also look at self-criticism – of self-criticism. I also wanted to address the CUP deputy very briefly, because, besides, we have three minutes and I would also like to focus on the candidate. Congresswoman Reguant, I listened to you carefully. I believe that you speak on behalf of all..., of your parliamentary group and of what you represent, of which are the problems and needs of the country. We also have an approximation of who are needed, and at some points we can agree, I'm not absolutely sure, with the will to work on this various agreement, three bands. It is true that we too, therefore, have had an electoral result, and, therefore, we have a government program that we also need to put..., as if it were another day backwards, that surely it will never be, but well, if it was another day backwards – I must wish it –, therefore..., we would have these agreements. Therefore, you have all the predisposition on the part of Junts for Catalonia, for many needs and problems and requests you make, so that you can work together and to reach this agreement on the part of Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Group. And to the deputy Aragonese, the candidate for the presidency of the Generality..., we liked much more his speech today than that of selling, we found much more points of agreement. The one that happens, that I think we should also look to give a message that the citizenry understands us. You referred to the fact that we do not have insurmountable schools to vote for this investiture. And you have made reference..., and I think that my intervention has not only made reference to a concrete aspect, but I believe that it has followed a polyhedral look at the country's needs at the economic, social, health level, as well as at the full road to independence..., but you have made reference, now that you were listening to it carefully, to which we have addressed: "We have addressed the needs for our own legislature. And I think that the spirit that we have together for Catalonia – and that motivates our abstention – is that we are not at a stage to approach, but to concretely. We need a government program, social policies, to avoid dysfunctions and toilets in your parliament. We haven't given either what distributions of government or who are the policies... There is no such thing; there is no such thing, and you know it. Therefore, the schools are not there, because there is this will, but we did not have a parliamentary agreement to be able to vote in favour of this investiture. And we're committed to working, because you asked us to set a date, and we're committed to this as soon as possible. And it has this compromise on the part of all the Members, because we are very aware of the situation in the country. Also when referring, Congressman Sabria...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.39.0	You should be done, Mrs. Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.40.0	... – yes, very briefly, President – refers to that the unit is preaching and is not practical, which seems to me to be a phrase that extremities from President Borràs. So precisely this, because the unit is practical and is not preached, we want today not to be an act of unity, but to be a legislature of parliamentary unity and unity to the government and unity of the full road every day in the next legislature. The day this is possible because this agreement is closed, there will be the favorable vote of Junts for Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.41.0	Mr. Ignacio Garriga, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, then has the words. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.42.0	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, Mr Aragonès, I wanted to refer to the excellence that you have bragged about and with which you expect to lead the government that you expect to form in the coming weeks. You were talking about excellence. I really hope that this excellence is not the one that has been the protagonists of his advisors neither of Health nor of Economy nor of Labour and Social Afers, because it involves death, ruin and misery for the Catalans as a whole. [[Greetings.]] You have humbled yourself before the CUP, a party that, as we have seen in recent weeks, encourages and legitimizes violence. It has managed to sell the Mossos d'Esquadra, and, not content with it, it seems that it is willing to expand the pacts with the anti-democratics, which, by the way, I hope the prosecutor's office will soon enforce the Party Law and illegalize a party that legitimizes violence and calls for subverting the constitutional order. [[Greetings.]] And, finally, perhaps you have not made any reference – or so you said – to the good Catalans or the bad Catalans, but people of your party have written articles..., without going any further, Mr Junqueras has written articles talking about genetic proximity. In particular, Mr Junqueras said that "the Catalans have more genetic proximity to the French than to the Spanish. If you do not speak of good and bad Catalans, explain to me in what terms the president of your party was speaking. And, finally, I wanted to tell you that in this chamber there is no party that leads Spanish nationalism. The only nationalists are you. [[Widow's remorse.]] The nationalism you represent is exclusive, generates division and confrontation among Catalans. We lead patriotism, which is inclusive and recognizes the diversity of each region within a great nation, which is Spain, Mr Aragonès. [[Greetings.]] That is the patriotism that we defend. And I want you to place that pride that you, sincere, recognized from your grandparents, from your origins, from Antonio and Juana, takes you to practice in your political activity. Recognize the right to speak Spanish in Catalonia ; recognize that parents can choose education in Catalonia. Do not deny the tongue of your ancestors. Speak Spanish from this rostrum. In short, I place you to make, from Catalonia, a place where many Juanas, where many Antonios, can feel comfortable, can speak the language that pleases them, and that not – like you and your separatist palm trees – call to fight, because in those terms you have referred to our political formation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.43.0	The words "Madam Basha Change", on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - A New Cycle for Winning. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.44.0	Thank you, President. Today we find ourselves here, in principle, to start this tretzenth legislature. You say in principle why, with the interventions we have heard in this faristol, it does not seem that there is any hurry to start it. It does not seem that there is a hurry to face the multiple crisis that we have on top, to build these bases of a new country that I did not leave behind. And, then, here we are hoping that this legislature will begin, that it might have begun to diverge, because there are those who feel the majority's consent for a social rescue in the sovereignty clause. But do you know who can't wait? The drawings of families named every day, thousands of years, for whom it may be urgent to activate, as soon as possible better, the recovery of empty habitats in the hands of great owners. For the 221,000 people in extreme poverty and the 129,000 people at risk of getting there, it is urgent to make this change in guaranteed income effective while the pilot plan of universal basic income is engaged. Perhaps they are in a hurry the millions of people who are still not vaccinated because sanitation is under-resourced or because they directly lack access to the health system because they do not have a standard. Or those who fill the endless lists of waits and who need us to get out of the limitations of this government in function and who already put us to work to deploy the necessary measures in a new cycle with all the available tools. Faced with these situations, we cannot continue to carry the entire burden of the economic and social crisis to the spaces of the popular classes, because we are in a hurry. Right now, anyone who doesn't want to ensure a decent life has to stay on the right track. All the time we hear the cry at the unit. We have not just heard that it is what can be preventing this consensus in such a clear situation of emergence and with common objectives that, in principle, also seem to us to be of consensus. If it is perhaps a question of disconnection from how to work it, we will have to look to the street to see some examples: the unity of all sectors of Health, which were able to summon an unusual sectoral vagueness to claim a public and quality health care; the unity of the workers of the school, who self-organize themselves in unions to defend their labor rights; or the internals of children's education, which even managed to promote a law of stability of the sector the past legislature. The unit like that of the Iqoxe template, which, as we have seen today, still has to continue to manifest and summon space to demand the company's more secure, because public administrations are still looking at another band. The unit like that of housing movement, which mobilizes thousands of people to defend a right to a habitat worthy and against the poor energy. Or the hundreds of people and organizations that were concentrated on March 13 in response to the employer to show that the popular unit is the engine of our home and that without popular classes it is not possible to pull forward any country project. The streets are united and mobilized fighting for dignified life. What must I do to make people's lives a priority of this Parliament? You're gonna have to summon the concentrators here at the door why do we see them and make them happen? We're in a hurry, because people's lives can't wait. And that's why we've been working for this unit for weeks and so we can vote today. Because, to watch the emergences, it seems that everyone has seen them, they can find the consensus to deal with them. I abstain or vote against it does not work or walk towards these solutions. Dilating this investment unnecessarily demonstrates the disconnection of institutions respects the emergence that this country is experiencing at the social, health, economic, economic, economic and democratic levels. The batteries have to be laid down, because most of this country have their lives. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.45.0	The words "Jessica Albiach", on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Pomem, are added.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.46.0	Thank you, President. Well, Mr. Aragones, I think that at this hour, and after the second debate, we've already explained to each other everything that we need to explain to each other. Now you've got all the information and you know the pilot's on the roof. Yesterday – I said earlier – I believe that what we witnessed in your intervention, in the intervention of Mr Sabrià, has been how it works or how the negotiations between the Republican Left and Junts went. You, Esquerra Republicana, insisting on the import of the institutions of Catalonia, who must be able to work without substitutions or protections– claiming, in short–, and Junts, want to build a bicephaly, want to mark their strategy in Madrid and also questioning – and I say more – the agreement with the UPC. That's the way things are, and we have the feeling that you have given in more and more. I believe that a leader, Mr Aragonès – and, ultimately, you want to lead this country, to lead the transformations that Catalonia needs – must have many virtues, that I am sure you have them – I do not question this – but I believe that you must also have one that is very important, and that is to know, the time has come, to plant yourself, to know how to say « well, and also to be able to rectify when you know that the way you have drawn will not bring to aught. And you know that the government with Juntes for Catalonia won't bring anything, because it won't work. And that is why I want to insist: there is an alternative, which is plural, which would allow us to pull out a government of hope; a government that poses for the struggle against job insecurity and job security; a government that knows that some material conditions are worthy is an essential condition for democracy; a government that holds back the few who want to negotiate with the solitude and dependence of our great people; a government that defends sovereignty, all sovereigns; a government that understands that the defense of the common good – before I have said this phrase, and I like it – it is not only preach, but it is practice; a government that knows that climate justice is incompatible with Barcelona World, with our own self-governing government; a government that knows that the rule of the world is the rule of the world. A government of hope – I said it the other day – no toilets, no resentment, no punching, no mistrust. A government that has all the energies put in place to face crises with loyalty to people and with loyalty to a government agreement. I'm done. They know what we're thinking, they know where we are. If at some point you want to stop losing opportunities – as Mr Sabrià has said before – if at some point you recognize that your government with Junts for Catalonia would not work and that it would only be more than the same, but worse, here we are. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.47.0	Next is the words of Mr Carlos Carrizosa, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.48.0	Mr Aragonès, we can add little about the reasons that have led us to this failed investiture, we have already explained them. And that is why we are only going to refer to three points that you have quoted in your reply. The first is the philipic that you have beaten Mr Illa, and that you have reminded us of that prepotence of blackmail to which during the last forty years the nationalist parties have subjected to the two old parties, the People's Party and the Socialist Party, with the threat that ‘if you do not do what we want, we will leave. Let's see if the People's Party and the Socialist Party come to the conclusion at once that we can't build anything on blackmail. There are some who at the dialogue tables call them 'dialogue' and are, in fact, this perpetual blackmail that we have seen for a long time. I remind the People's Party and the Socialist Party that there is an alternative to govern Spain within more central and normal channels, which is the'221 Way of Arrimadas', which we were talking about this conjunction of those three major central political lines that govern Europe, which are the Conservative Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Liberals. Secondly, the candidate has made himself inclusive and has quoted 'a people's sun'. And I would like to remind you that Mrs Forcadell, of her own party, when she spoke of « a people's sun in Catalonia expressly excluded the People's Party and Citizens saying that we were not « people in Catalonia, but « their adversaries. I remember it for you to do internal pedagogy. And finally, you have told VOX not to patrimonialize the representation of Catalans with relatives outside Catalonia, and you have referred to your Andalusian grandparents, which seems very good to me. But then, rather than VOX, this would have to explain to Mr. Junqueras, that Mr. Junqueras thinks that your DNA is different from your Andalusian grandparents' DNA. [[applause]] and so expressed in an article with clarity. [[Pause.]] That's it. [[Strong laughs and applause.]] Three things; but, if you want, I'll run out of a little...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.49.0	Then you have the word... Ah, no, decline to use the word the Group Mixt spokesman. So has the word Mr Sergi Sabrià, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.50.0	Three points, four points very fast. We have heard the PSC once again filling its mouth with consensus and dialogue, but in this country consensus is amnesty and self-determination. Therefore, it is you who have come from the great consensus of this country. It's you who's been placed in a raccoon. [[Greetings.]] It is you who speak of two Catalonias; not us, who always speak of a country for everyone in the form of a republic. And I'd tell them he's looking at the lookout, 'cause I don't think they do. And I don't think they do it because they don't like each other. Because they don't want to see that, from that Maragall PSC they quote, there's nothing left. And that's all that's left because the people who actually believe in it went away and they're here, there, there and there. [[Greetings.]] Those who really believe in it today are the Republican Left. To our common partners, we're holding our hands once more. We both know that it unites us much more than the one that separates us, because with you, yes, instead of the PSC, it unites us with these great country consensuses, those that passed by a while ago. That is why we do not understand that they continue every day and every day and at any price under the socialist skirts. [[Widow's remorse.]] And, in any case, our hand continues to be extended. We want to continue working with you, because we think we have a leftover project that we could do together. And at the CUP, thank him again for the compromise, the work, the will of the whole. They have been able to read the opportunity and need: the need, for the difficult moment that passes through this country, and that needs answers from the left; and the opportunity that represents 52_percent of independent votes. We'll do it together and we'll do it right. And together for Catalonia..., thank you for all, Mrs. Geis, the general climate of all the finds we've made. But we can't be happy with the outcome. We can't be happy to have arrived here today without an agreement. Mass days stuck where I didn't touch. And now it seems – it seems – that the main problem has disappeared. So-so-there. We can't ask the country to expect it, because it doesn't deserve it; because emergencies, which are many, don't expect it; because we're all here to be useful, to transform. And we have a project just and for everyone. Let's not talk about it any more. Make it possible. We get to work now, and we take advantage of all the available tools. I just want to volunteer. We have a reconstruction project and a social majority and a national majority as we've never had before. We're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're... The opportunity is now, and we can't take it away. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.51.0	All right. After the debate, we shall now proceed to the vote. According to Rule 4.4 of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government, and Rule 150.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, because it was invested, the candidate has to obtain the votes of the simple majority. This choice also includes approval of the government program. Before starting the vote, however, I would like to welcome the nine voting delegations that we have agreed to rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure. The deputies Albert Batet, Elsa Artadi and Anna Erra have delegated their vote, because of covid-19, to the deputy Gemma Geis, spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. Thus, Congresswoman Susanna Segovia has delegated her vote, also because of covid-19, to Congressman David Cid. And Congresswoman Elena Díaz has delegated her vote, with a motion of hospitalization – and we wish them a very short hour – to Congresswoman Alicia Romero, spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. As we also did in the first debate, the vote will be public and by cry. It will vote in alphabetical order, starting for the deputy whose name you came out of by lot. [[The president takes a ball with the number of the deputy for whom the roll-call vote has to begin.]] And the deputy who came out selected is number 104, Lluís Salvado, of the Republican Left. Therefore, I pray, in the first place, to the third secretary, Mr Pau Juvillà, and then to the second secretary, Mr Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas, who vaginas naming the deputies and the deputies. And they ask them to answer 'yes, 'no or declare themselves abstaining. The members of the Bureau and the Government will vote at the end.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.52.0	Josep Lluís Salvadó Tenesa : « Yes. Raquel Sans Guerra: "Yes. Susanna Segovia Sánchez: "No. Meritxell Serret i Aleu: "Yes. Beatriz Silva Gallardo : « No. Alberto Tarradas Paneque : « No. Francesc Ten i Costa : « Abstention. Jordi Terrades Santacreu: "No. Judith Toronjo Nofuentes : « Abstention. Roger Torrent Ramíó: "Yes. Salvador Vergés and Tejero: "Forbearance. Laura Vilagrà Pons: "Yes. Marta Vilalta i Torres : « Yes. Montserrat Vinyets Pagès : « Yes. Maria Jesús Viña i Ariño: "Yes. Rubén Viñuales Elias : « No.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.53.0	Manuel Jesús Acosta Elias: "No. Jordi Albert i Caballero : « Yes. Jessica Albiach Satorres: "No. Judith Alcalá González: "No. Matías Alonso Ruiz : « No. Oscar Aparicio Pedrosa: "No. Irene Aragonès Gràcia : « Yes. Elsa Artadi and Vila: "Forbearance. Ana Balsera i Marín: "Yes. Albert Batet i Canadell : « Abstention. Maria Antònia Batlle i Andreu : « Abstention. Helena Bayo Delgado : « No. Andrés Bello Sanz : « No. Marina Bravo Sobrino: "No. Eusebi Campdepadrós and Pucurull : « Abstention. Joan Canadell i Bruguera : « Abstention. Eva Candela Lopez: "No. Dolors Carreras Casany : « No. Carlos Carrizosa Torres : « No. Cristina Casol Segués : « Abstention. Carles Castillo Rosique : « Yes. Basha Changue Canalejo: "Yes. David Cid Colomer: "No. Bartomeu Conte Masmitjà: "Yes. Dani Cornellà Detrell: "Yes. Francesc de Dalmases i Thió : « Abstention. Jenn Díaz Ruiz : « Yes. Elena Díaz Torrevejano : « No. Najat Driuech Ben Moussa: "Yes. Anna Maria Erra i Solà : « Abstention. Assume Escarp Gibert: "No. Ramon Swordler Partners: "No. Mercè Esteve i Pi : « Abstention. Laia Estrada Canon : « Yes. Ferran Estruch i Torrents : « Yes. Jordi Fàbrega and Sabaté : « Abstention. Anna Feliu Moragues : « Abstention. Alejandro Fernández Álvarez : « No. Juli Fernández and Olivares: "Yes. Lucas Silvano Ferro Sole : « No. Antoni Flores i Ardiaca : « Yes. Gloria Freixa and Vilardell: "Forbearance. Jordina Freixanet i Pardo: "Yes. Antonio Gallego Burgos : « No. Joan Carles Gallego i Herrera: "No. Maria Elisa García Fuster: "No. Mario García Gómez : « No. Joan García González: "No. Joan Carles Garcia Guillamon : « Abstention. Rocio Garcia Pérez : « No. Joan Garriga Doménech: "No. Ignacio Garriga Vaz de Concicao : « No. Gemma Geis i Carreras : « Abstention. Pol Gibert Horcas: "No. Cristófol Gimeno Iglesias : « No. David González Chanca: "No. Jessica González Herrera: "No. Anna Grau Arias : « No. Rosa Maria Ibarra Ollé: "No. Salvador Illa i Roca: "No. Jordi Jordan Farnos : « No. Josep Maria Jové Lladó : « Yes. Maria Assumption Laïlla Jou : « Abstention. Isabel Lázaro Pina : « No. Gemma Lienas Massot: "No. Lluïsa Llop and Fernández: "Yes. Antonio Ramón López Gómez : « No. Monica Lora Cisquer: "No.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.54.0	Sergio Macián de Greef: "No. Aurora Madaula and Giménez: "Abstention. Marta Madrenas and Mir: "Forbearance. Ernest Maragall i Mira: "Yes. Ignacio Martín Blanco : « No. Engelbert Montalà i Pla: "Yes. Pau Morales i Romero : « Yes. Raúl Moreno Montaña : « No. Marta Moreta Rovira: "No. Jordi Munell and Garcia: "Forbearance. Esther Niubó Cidoncha : « No. Óscar Ordeig i Molist : « No. Mònica Palacín and Paris : « Yes. Joaquim Paladella Shorto : « No. Teresa Pallarès Piqué: "Abstention. Silvia Paneque Sureda: "No. Eva Parera i Escrichs: "No. Marc Parés Franzi: "No. Xavier Pellicer Couple: "Yes. David Pérez Ibáñez: "No. Núria Picas Albets : « Yes. Lluís Puig Gordi : « Abstention. [[Greetings.]] Eulàlia Reguant i Cura: "Yes. Jordi Riba Colom: "No. Carles Riera Albert : « Yes. Monica Ríos García : « No. Josep Rius and Alcaraz: "Forbearance. Lorena Roldán Suárez : « No. Sylvia Romero Galera : « No. Alicia Romero Llano : « No. Ferran Roquer and Padrosa: "Forbearance. Juan Luis Ruiz López: "No. Maria Dolors Sabater i Puig: "Yes. Sergi Sabria and Benito: "Yes. Mònica Sales de la Cruz : « Abstention. Meritxell Budo and Pla : « Abstention. Damia Calvet Valera: "Forbearance. Esther Capella i Farré: "Yes. Chakir the Homrani Lesfar : « Yes. Teresa Jordan and Roura: "Yes. Jordi Puigneró and Ferrer : « Abstention. Ramon Tremosa Balcells : « Abstention. Alba Vergés i Bosch: "Yes. Pere Aragonès Garcia : « Yes. Ruben Wagensberg Ramon : « Yes. Pau Juvillà Ballester: "Yes. Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas and Sayrol: "Forbearance. Ferran Pedret i Santos: "No. Eva Granados Galiano : « No. Anna Caula i Paretas : « Yes. Laura Borràs and Castanyer: "Forbearance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-30-0202.55.0	The result of the vote... were 42 yes, 61 nos and 32 abstentions. As the candidate has not obtained the required majority of votes in accordance with Article 4.5 of the Law of the Presidency and the Government, a new round of consultations with representatives of parliamentary groups will be initiated to process a new proposal for a candidate for the Presidency of the Generality. The session's up.
