ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-20-0601.1.0	Very nice late. Before we begin the order of the day, I would like to greet, on behalf of the whole House, the Presidents of Parliament and the Presidents of the Government of Catalonia, who are today following this plenary session from other parts of Parliament because... because of the restrictions of the pandemic, they already see in what position the members of the Government are, with these frames that we have enabled, and all the deputies who occupy the lot and the rostrum. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Unfortunately, before I begin, I have to communicate two new victims of genera's rape. According to the official data of the Interior Department, this week, Tuesday 18, the Sulay cadaver was found in Creixell. And that same day, the Raven of Llobregat, she died murdered Lucia. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn these crimes and reiterate Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women and to age, too, for its record. According to the protocol of dol of the Parliament of Catalonia against masculinist rapes, approved by the Working Group on Gender Equity, this presidency proposes to make now the minute of silence and not to do it to the main face, in order to avoid crowds. Please... [[In the chamber, dempeus, serve a minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] In compliance, too, with the motion 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, I also inform you that according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of this year 2021 685 dead and missing persons in the Mediterranean have been counted. For what it does to the health crisis of covid-19, the data seems to be gradually improving, yet we still have 369 people who have joined the ICU, and 934 people on the plant. We cannot lower the guard and therefore, also, here in Parliament, we ask you to produce the rotations that we have established so as to complete with the security measures that have been indicated to us. Thus, I would like to warn you of the voting delegations that have been admitted to the vote, in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure. Deputy Lluís Puig has delegated her vote to Deputy Gemma Geis, spokesman for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. The deputy Elena Díaz Torrevejano has delegated her vote to the deputy Alicia Romero, spokesman of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar, and the deputy Ruben Wagensberg has delegated his vote to the deputy Josep M. Jové, president of the Republican Esquerra Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. [[Program debate and investiture vote of MP Pere Aragonès Garcia, candidate proposed to the Presidency of the Generality]] [[201-00002/13]] The only point on the agenda of this plenary session is the debate on the programme and the investiture vote of the deputy Pere Aragonès Garcia, who is the candidate proposed to the Presidency of the Generality of Catalonia. In accordance with Rule 149.1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the debate begins with the reading of the Resolution of the President of the Parliament, in which the candidate for the Presidency of the Generality is proposed. I beg the secretary to read this resolution. Please, Mrs. Madaula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-20-0601.2.0	« Proposal for a candidate for the Presidency of the Generality. In accordance with Article 4 of Law 13/2008 of 5 November 2008 of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government, they consulted the representatives of the parties and political groups with parliamentary representation, proposed to the chamber the deputy Pere Aragonès Garcia as candidate for the Presidency of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-20-0601.3.0	Thank you very much. Next, the proposed candidate, Mr. Pere Aragonès Garcia, has the word. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-20-0601.4.0	Many thanks, very honorable President of Parliament. Honourable members of the outgoing Government, benvolgued companies, benvolgued companies; deputies and deputies; authorities present today in the Parliament of Catalonia; representatives of the Government of Catalonia; representatives of the Parliament of Catalonia, citizens and citizens of Catalonia, very late at all. Today, in this Parliament, which belongs to the people's sovereignty of the Catalan nation, and with all solemnity, I present my candidacy to the presidency of the Generality to make it possible to complete the independence of Catalonia, to make inevitable the amnesty and exercise of the right to self-determination, ruling throughout the city, ruling all over the city, ruling all over the city, ruling for the honest country. Today, in this Parliament, which belongs to the Sovereignty of Catalonia, I present my candidature to the Presidency of the Generality to push a way out of the crisis that I did not leave behind, and to transform the economic system of the country with the objective that it is able to generate welfare and prosperity for everyone; to ensure that everyone has something more than a dignified life; to build a country that considers its people and is fixed as a priority the happiness of its citizenship; to build a Catalonia where absolutely everything, if possible and everyone, without any chance of exclusion, can develop its life project with absolute freedom. I want to open a new stage, I want to promote a new Republican Generality, unconformist, innovative, transformative, imaginative, creative; with a vision of the future and with the unequivocal commitment to make the lives of everyone and every citizen of Catalonia easier, more friendly and happy. I have no doubt that today Catalonia needs to be sacked, it needs to open a new stage with four great transformations that are unstoppable and that will be the four flags of the new Republican Generality. A social flag, of progress, to ensure everyone's home and work, to guarantee everyone's health and education; with a new economic model that guarantees equity and equal opportunity to ensure that prosperity and well-being come from the country. A feminist flag that wipes out all the glass braids, that eradicates all form of masculinism. And where everyone can develop their lives without any limit, no form of discrimination. A green transformation to cool down and begin to reverse the climate change with all urgency, facing the transformation of the energy model, making a decided bet for the green economy, and, above all, promoting a cultural change, from how we produce and how we consume as society. And finally, a democratic flag, radically democratic, compromised with civic participation, transparency and evaluation, with the need for accountability; compromised with good governance and compromised with the will of the majority of this Parliament to make amnesty and self-determination inevitable. There are four changes, four flags, four transformations on which I want to build the master walls of the nova Generalitat republicana. Four changes, four transformations that must strengthen us as a society, that want to make Catalonia a country of reference for its policies of progress and social cohesion. It won't be easy, because the crises that engulf us are very deep, but I know what we have to do to get out - I have very clear where we have to go to build, to make possible a future plethora of opportunities. That is why, at the length of this debate, I will try to gain his confidence, the complicity of all of you, and with him the conjunction of the country's citizenship. Because we must never forget that if we are here for them and for them, for the city of Catalonia. I want to be the first of the public servers. And this vocation of service, is what will guide all and every decision I make to the head of the Government of Catalonia, if I have his confidence. I'll be brief, because we all have a lot of work to do a long time ago. A good part of the ideas of how I understand the country and what is the project that I want to lead, I have already exposed them to the previous investment debate, so I will refer briefly, as a reminder, putting in value the good agreement that we signed initially with the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle for Winning, and the understanding that we have reached together for Catalonia. An agreement to immediately set aside the new Republican Generality. It's evidence that building this whole thing, these things, wasn't easy. We have invested a lot of time in a context where the crisis required a quick agreement. That's why I want to thank the patience of a exhausted citizenry, before which we have the duty to regain their trust, because at our head and at our end there was the prestige and credibility of our institutions. It's our turn to be on the rise, on the rise of the city. And, as we've done these last few days, finding a way to overcome our differences; with high doses of empathy and with full will. We need to build consensus and we have given shape to a good agreement, which assures us of a strong, cohesive government and with all the energies renewed in the face of the great transformations that we must push with the country. For this reason, I want to take advantage of the occasion to thank, once again, the effort of all those who have made an independent and progressive agreement possible, who have made an agreement possible, to obtain their trust and thus begin to shape the new Republican Generality. Today I present myself in this Parliament with the certainty that it gives me to know that I am counting on the complicity of a large majority of progressive Members and Members of Parliament; that I am counting on the complicity of a large majority of independent Members and Members of Parliament who will help me to push forward the new stage that the country needs to undertake. For the first time in our century, Catalonia will have a president, now, independentist and left-wing; left-wing and independentist. That is why I pledge to govern by giving response to the vast majority of progress in this Parliament, to govern the country by giving response to the vast majority in favour of amnesty and self-determination. That is why I pledge to lead the country with all the strength that it gives us to have, for the first time, crossed the border of 50 percent of the independence votes in some elections. I will govern with a lot of these majorities present, but I always want to govern with my hand all those with whom, sooner than later, we will have to hear, because in many, many aspects, we share the same idea of a country and a lot, a lot of transformative ambition. That is why, beyond the complicity of Juntas and the Popular Unity Candidacy, today we need support from those with whom we share the same idea of progress and a common compromise with the freedom of political prisoners and media, with the return of exiles and exiles, and with the exercise of the right to self-determination. They ask me to trust them; I personally, and the party where I represent them, did not on other occasions take on costs and risks, but always with the will not to stop the changes and take advantage of any key to advance the country. Today they ask them to do what we have known on other occasions. If they have the will to help us advance the country, today they have the opportunity to prove it by not opposing my investiture as President of the Generality. They ask them not to oppose the social, green, feminist and democratic transformation that I want to push; not to oppose and help me make it possible. I've talked a lot and I'll talk a lot about the new Republican Generality. And I do so because the Republican values determine my way of doing it and will mark the new stage that the country's main institution must begin, starting from a common idea of birth and the conviction that we are and must continue to be a people's sun. All of the government's policies that I want to push will respond to the Republican ideals, the basic principles of freedom, equality, fraternity, together with ecology, feminism, pacifism, cultural diversity and Europeanism, will guide the work of the Councillors and Councillors with all the will to be useful to the citizenry, to improve their lives, because the new Republican Generality has to become the main tool for building a community, for building progress, for building social cohesion. The new Republican Generality has to be raised as the main search tool for the common good. All this will not be empty adjectives. The new stage that I want to visualize from the first day is with changes in form and substance, because at the expense of the policies that are brave and useful for the citizenry, at the expense of social, feminist, green and democratic transformation, we need a new way of governing agile, creative, disruptive, pro- and effective, able to take advantage of all the talent of the country and put it to the service of the city council. We need to modernize the institution. We must engage all our unconformity with the will of transformation, taking refuge in a grey management and rebelling against the immobilism of ''this has always been so. We need to provide security to the citizen, communicating, as one you see, with the highest agility and clarity. We have to commit ourselves to govern from the assessment of public policies and, above all, we have to commit ourselves to accountability, because this is the best way forward and, above all, it is our responsibility before the citizenry. We need a government capable of imagining the future, of governing thinking beyond one or two legislatures, with the courage to make difficult decisions and, even less popular ones, but what they will have to do if they are needed for the good of the country. We are therefore a government that governments for everyone, that governments for the whole country, for the whole of Catalonia, that is present to the cities and barrels too often invisible, offering, to the ill-named 'periphery, the space that corresponds to the centrality of the country. And finally, we need to govern from the shared struggles, from the great consensus that exists in Catalonia. This new Republican Generality is convinced that it will improve the prestige of the institution, that it will strengthen the confidence of the citizenry. It is my main compromise if you enjoy your support today: to work tirelessly to make us worthy of the trust of all Catalans and all Catalans. It is necessary to place the Generality as the highest institutional expression of the idea of Catalonia as the birth and as the institution that binds us and identifies us all, respecting all the diversity and all the ideological plurality that the country has, because I will not tire of saying: "We are a people's sun and we have the whole future forward. This is why we need to strengthen the confidence of citizens in institutions, modernise them to make them more useful, and this is an essential condition for referring to the unbreakable alliance between institutions, citizens, civil society that so strong and so far has brought us into the past years. Change the form and the background, because the sacking that I want and that we will want to give to the country, the four flags of the new Republican Generality demand a compromise of our policies with the progress, according to the will of the majority reflected in this Parliament. This will be the centre of gravity of the government that I want to push: a government for social justice, a government anchored to the idea of progress, with all the non-conformism and with all the will to transform, because it is time and we are ready to drive this social, green, feminist and democratic transformation, which makes Catalonia a progressive country of reference at European level. I have no doubt that we can do this and above all I have no doubt that with the complicity of all and, in particular, of the vast majority that we are today we have to do it, because we have all the ingredients to get out - in and the only limit that we have to fix ourselves is that of the popular will of the city of Catalonia. The only limit we have to fix is that of the popular will of Catalonia's citizens. [[Greetings.]] The agreement we signed with the Popular Unity Candidate and the set of commitments I presented in my first investment debate is a clear demonstration of this ambition. They are all fully in force and can only form the new government to begin to shape them. In summary and as reminders, the new Republican General is committed to immediately boost a social rescue plan with €700_million, to continue to help economically the small and medium-sized enterprises and professionals most affected by the crisis of the covid, to strengthen the welfare state with the gratuitousness of education from zero to three years, to obtain the resources we need to transform the health system, to promote a mental and emotional health plan and to transform the whole system of social care and cures. The new Republican Government is committed to designing a new social contract to guarantee everyone the right to housing, water, energy and connectivity, to pilot the process of developing universal basic income, to promote a new national pact for industry, to promote the national pact for economic transition, to create a council of Feminisms and Equality which is committed to eradicating discrimination suffered by most of the people of Catalonia, who suffer from women. The new Republican Generality will allocate 2_percent of the budget to culture and create an audiovisual hub. The new Republican Generality will take full advantage of the potential of Next Generation funds to boost the economic sectors with the greatest capacity to transform our production system. All these are examples of the transformation poles that must move the new stage that we are starting today with the aim of moving forward, in an irrevocable way, in a social, feminist, green and democratic way. And the independence and progress agreement that we have signed with Juntes for Catalonia accompanies with all the transformative will force the agreement signed with the Popular Unity Candidacy. With this agreement, we want to advance the welfare state so that it helps us to strengthen the social cohesion of the country. We propose to guarantee home and work, health and education. Because if the goal is to guarantee a life worthy of everyone, we must be able to work, that everyone has a place to live, that everyone has access to the health system and that everyone can enjoy all the potential emancipator that the education system has. [[Some applause.]] In parallel, it is necessary to devote all efforts to speed up the economic reconstruction of the country and to promote a productive model to the service of the citizenry, where the main wealth that is generated is counted in terms of welfare and prosperity for the conjunction of the population. With the independence and progress agreement, we will do so; and, at the same time, we will advance the policies of equality and feminists, we will advance the conjunction of the rights of citizens, regardless of their origin, the language they speak, their sexual orientation, their administrative situation. We will rebuild the territory and guarantee the country's equal opportunities. We will strengthen culture and ensure the progress of Catalan language. We will face the climate emergency and the protection of biodiversity and project Catalonia abroad, committing ourselves to all global challenges. And finally, with the independence and progress agreement we will advance in the modernization of public institutions because they really are an effective and efficient government to the service of the citizenry. All these are examples of the policies I want my government to lead. We've been able to sum up the accomplices to make it possible, but I don't have much. I do not agree with the majority that in this investment debate I can trust. I want to go there more. Some of the changes and transformations we want to push are very profound and require working with all the will to build a broad political and social consensus, as wide as possible. For this reason, the new Republican Generality will be able to govern from the good experience of the national pacts, because it is an excellent way to build consensus, to identify and shape the shared struggles, to equip the changes that need more than one legislature to implement. I have already mentioned some that need to be updated or implemented, such as the National Pact for Economic Transition or the National Pact for Industry, which needs to be done again. But my will is to make the most of this form of governance, by driving or implementing the national pacts of salvation, of mental salvation, of interculturality, of the right of persons with disabilities, of physical activity and of sport, or of a national pact for Catalan language, in order to protect, encourage and increase the use of our language in all areas of society. They'll have a lot of work to do building consensus. In conscious shock. But I am willing to devote all my efforts to it, all my energy and all my know-how, as the first of the public servants of this country. Because if we get out of it, we'll have some irreplaceable transformation tools in the country. We want to rule on the basis of great agreements and we want to drive a sack of the country as we have so far. And doing so also requires an intense legislative task. And that matches us, and it involves all of us who occupy a bait in this hemisphere. MPs and MPs, we have a lot, a lot of work to do; starting with the election law and ending with the law of biodiversity. And this is a shared responsibility for all of us. That's why I want this to be a legislature with a lot, a lot of legislative work. We are talking about the law to avoid denunciations, the law of energy transition, the law of citizen participation, the law of promotion of personal autonomy, the law of prevention and management of residues, the law of public contract, the law of governments and local finance, the law of tourism, the law of territories, the law of protection of alerters, the law of interest groups, the law of democratic memory, the law of sport, the law of science, the law of sponsorship in search, development and investigation or the law of cultural policies. All this is also transforming the country into a consensus-based country. And they are all key fish of the social, green, feminist and democratic transformation that we want to push. That's why it's urgent and it's imperative to change the dynamics. Raise our heads and look back at the eyes to overcome the current blockade, overcome the repression, regaining the initiative with the leadership of the Generality and the strength that gave us 52_percent of independent votes to advance again to amnesty and to self-determination, to advance again with a firm step and with all conviction towards the Catalan Republic. Independence, like the country, is plural and diverse. And that, despite the difficulties it poses, is also our main strength. We need to talk a lot. In a context of permanent repression, we need to counterbalance diverse opinions and points of view. We need a lot of synthesis and confluence. When we do, when we find this point of agreement, we become unstoppable. And that's what we've been through, we've already known how to do it. And, therefore, we know what we have to do. It cost a lot, but with the agreement of consensus for the Catalan Republic made public last week we begin to have a shared diagnosis of where we are and what we need to do from then on. And this is a necessary step to get back on track. And in this sense, we will push the national agreement for self-determination and amnesty, to make clear the vast social majority that knows that the resolution of the political conflict with the State goes through the freedom of prisoners and exiles and exiles, and through the free exercise of the right to self-determination. We will push the national agreement for self-determination and amnesty to defend the need for a civic and peaceful confrontation to force the State to assume reality until now denied. We'll create a point of finding where everyone who defends that Catalonia has the right to decide... a point of finding that can bend all the sovereignty. We will create this space, this indisputable alliance that unites the citizenry, civil society, social agents and institutions of the country in favor of the political solution we propose, in favor of amnesty and self-determination. And with this strength, with this energy, with this determination, the Generality and Catalonia, acting as a single people, will go to the negotiating table to resolve once and for all the political conflict with the State. And this is my obsession: to overcome the current blockade and resolve once and for all the political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State. And here I have no doubt – as a large majority of Catalan society does – that the solution passes, in an indefensible way, through amnesty and self-determination and a democratic impulse that the State seeks to accept the will of the majority of Catalonian citizens. I want to do like Scotland, and I'd like the Spanish State to know how to do like the United Kingdom in 2014, no more or less: make a reference and we, the independenceists, work from the first day to win it. I know that Scotland will get together and that it will re-vote, and I know that the United Kingdom will do everything possible to seduce the Scots and to prevent democratically becoming an independent country. And that which is possible in Scotland must be possible in Catalonia. And that which is possible in the United Kingdom must be possible in the Spanish State. I want a reference to self-determination, where those who legitimately defend that Catalonia must continue to be part of the Spanish State, instead of systematically denying the right to decide that we have as we were born, make us a political proposal for Catalonia, which is no longer in the polls and which explains why we should choose to stay in the Spanish State, which explains what proposal they have for our country. To win a referendum and not to lose it. I'll defend independence there. I will defend the Catalan Republic because it is the best way to guarantee a future of equality, fraternity and well-being, and prosperity for all the citizens of Catalonia. And in the face of this I would like the State to stop offering repression and choose to start a democratic confrontation on the basis of a project alternating with independence, which went beyond staying with a detailed autonomy that has long remained very small. We compare projects, proposals, ideas and vote in freedom, and no one has to lose. Democracy, and that's the best way we have to resolve the political conflicts that are inherent in all society. I told the iniciator. I want to be the President of the Generality to make it possible to complete the independence of Catalonia, to make amnesty inevitable and to exercise the right to self-determination governing throughout the country, ruling for the honest country, because if one thing I am clear, if one thing for me is completely unnegotiable, it is that all those who today reject the Catalan Republic must know that the Catalan Republic will never reject them. [[Greetings.]] This is my commitment: to advance towards the Catalan Republic as a people's sun, and I will not rest until I achieve it. Deputies and deputies, present authorities today in the Parliament of Catalonia, the country's citizenry, opened a new time. Since the Presidency of the Generality, with the Government and Parliament, we must lead the social and economic reconstruction of the country and the struggle for amnesty and self-determination. With one hand winning the cove, so many people took off, and took the country out of the crisis. And with the other step forward to the Catalan Republic, ruling for the southern Catalonia, ruling alongside the people, for all Catalans and Catalans, for all the peoples, viles, barrels and cities of the country, without leaving us to any and without obviating any territory. Catalonia is its people, and all the way we propose to ourselves in the future we have to resort to everyone, because it's so important to get there as to get there together and leave no one behind, because we're a nation. Because, as they say to the Aran, "we are a people_solet. I assume, if that gives me the confidence this chamber, I want to take the lead of the country with all the history, with all the responsibility of the moment; take the lead with the commitment to devote all the energy, all the experience and all the know-how to project Catalonia towards the future. I imagine and want a country that looks at its people and that is fixed as a priority the happiness of its citizens. And I have no doubt what we have to do to get it. That is why today I made them a proposal for the future, which adds to the detailed proposals I made in the two planned investment debates. I propose a new Republican Generality compromise with the transformation of the country, compromise with the social transformation, with the feminist transformation, with the green transformation, with the democratic transformation that we need to get the country back on track. I proposed a new Republican Generality compromise with the whole country. I'm making them a proposal for the future, a transformative proposal, and I'm asking them to trust me to be the first public servant in this country, and to help me push the sack that the country needs. We do it all the work our mothers and our fathers have done, we do it for our opinions and our ancestors, but above all we do it for our daughters and our children. That is why today I commit myself before this Parliament, I commit myself with all of you, and with this gesture I want to compromise myself with the city of Catalonia. That's why today they demand their vote in favor of my investiture as President of the Generality, as President of Catalonia, as President for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-20-0601.5.0	So now, once the candidate's intervention is over, we suspend the session for thirty minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-20-0601.6.0	Please, if you can take your seats, we'll resume the session. In accordance with Rule 149 of the Rules of Procedure, a representative of each parliamentary group spoke after the candidate's intervention for 30 minutes. The candidate will be able to use the word as many times as he or she asks, without time limitation, and when the candidate responds individually to a Member who has spoken, he or she will have right to a reply of a time equivalent to the same time as the candidate has used. If you have answered the replies, there will also be no time limit, and the group, then, will have a counter-replication of five minutes. The vote for the investiture of the President of the Generality will be public by vote, in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia. And now, in the first place, has the words of Mr. Salvador Illa, president of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - Units per Avançar. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-20-0601.7.0	Very honourable Madam President, the authorities, the ladies and gentlemen of the House; Mr Aragonès, I would like to begin this intervention with three preliminary considerations. The first, to make a round sentence, without pal·liatius, to the five murdered by male violence that has occurred in Spain, two of which in Catalonia – in Creixell and in Corbera de Llobregat – in the last seventy-two hours. Second place, to make a sincere, also dull recognition, to all professionals involved in the vaccination process in Catalonia. Works well, the vaccination process in Catalonia. This is the main measure: to be vaccinated; not only in the matter of public health, but also in the matter of economic policy. Vaccinate to get rid of the covid and to get our economy back. Opens a horitzo of hope, the vaccination process. We need to act with caution, but it opens up a horizon of hope. I want to customize this grace in the two people who gave me the vaccine, the Iris and the Cristina, and I also want to extend it to the Vergés Councillor. Counselor, this is working well, and you deserve it too. And third place... [[Greetings.]] I in third place... I want to send all my affection, support and affection to the compatriots of Ceuta and Melilla, on my own behalf and on behalf of the parliamentary group I represent. And I want to customize it in the presidents of these autonomous cities, in President Juan Jesús Vivas, of Ceuta, and in President Eduardo de Castro, of Melilla, with whom I have had the opportunity, in my previous responsibility, to depart and work. And at this time I do not want you to know that you have the affection, affection and support of those who speak to you and of the parliamentary group, of the first parliamentary group, at least on behalf of whom I can speak, of this Parliament. Also to all the Ceutis and Melillenses who are, for whatever reason, here in Catalonia. And getting into matter, Mr. Aragonès, is the third time you've tried to invest. He tried, and he didn't get out on March 26; he tried again and he didn't get out on March 30. Looks like he's coming out now. Of the eight presidents who have had Catalonia since the recovery of democracy, you are the only one who will have needed three investments to complete, most likely, his investment. A reminder. For the time being, you are opening up with an unprecedented fact so far in Catalonia's democracy. The approach you make to this chamber is that of a coalition government Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Left, with an agreement also with the CUP to obtain the necessary support from the Parliament of Catalonia, in this chamber, to be able to develop the action of government. Coalition government, therefore – we already had a coalition government like what you proposed or repeated – with an agreement also with the CUP to ensure parliamentary stability. Actually, they're deals, aren't they? The one that was already presented on March 26 and 30, with the CUP, and the one that we have known at the beginning of this week, with Juntes for Catalonia. You have claimed a stable government. And I agree: Catalonia needs a stable government more than ever. And it's essential, from my point of view, to spare the level of stability that your government will be able to hold, to understand well and see what level of solidity they have with your government partner, Junts per Catalunya, and with your parliamentary partner, the CUP, right? That it took three investment sessions to achieve, very likely, the presidency is not, from the outset, a good omen. I think it can be illustrated, making good on Lord Byron: "The best prophet of the future is the past. See what's happened since March 30, when you went to this room and didn't get the necessary support until today, May 20, when it's expected that tomorrow, precisely, I'll get it. And we've seen a lot of things. We've seen, in the first place, differences in the air without any modesty or discretion. Mr. Batet, whom I always thank for his sincerity and his graphic design, spoke to his later intervention at your failed investment session, which wanted a coalition government and not a coalition government. They have aired their differences without shame or discretion. We have also seen many terms and many last ones without any other effects than to undermine the credibility of the one who, with roundness but with feverishness, proclaimed them. We've seen a whole thing – I think it was May 8th – with Juntes for Catalonia. You said this day: "We announced today... – these are your words, eh? – "Today we announce that we assume the responsibility of initiating the legislature with a government in solitary, said you. We also saw – who should tell us! – the CUP will decide in the « Palau case, and sit them down at the table. We have seen in a fleeting way, of course, but we have seen an opening and a break in negotiations with Catalonia in Commu; I do not think that they were from forty-night to seventy-two hours, we have seen how they were starting and how they were closing with fleetingness, which is exactly what they proclaimed, at least during the electoral campaign, "way wide. And, finally, we've seen that in a week's term, a dissipation and a diminution, you've been sitting with Mr. Jordi Sànchez and they've come to a pact, which I think is a convenience pact. And the question is, why don't you do the next week's head immediately after the 14th of February? Why did we have to lose three months to get this? And when we already thought that in the matter of investiture everything was said and done, we still saw as if in the place of people opting to form part of their government, we saw cars to get rid of their government. It is difficult, I say with the utmost respect for everyone, but it is frankly difficult not to interpret this rejection of some people – for another very significant band in some political formations – as a lack of confidence in their presidency and in their government. Well, let's see how you pull this off, shall we? In conclusion, you started from a frac and from March 30th, I believe that the negotiation process – which I most likely allow you to be President of the Generality – has damaged the institutions of Catalonia, because it has weakened them; it has lowered its authority as the future President, because you will speak from tomorrow on behalf of the Government of Catalonia and weakened its authority, because it has been presenting lasts that have gone twenty without going absolutely beyond what you proclaimed; it has been harmed, from my point of view, the country. You yourself said that"we need it immediately... – you said it, not me –" a government with full capacity for action. And we've seen the first signs of mistrust in the first rows, not others... in the first rows we've seen the first signs of mistrust. I think this allows me to say that it doesn't start with you or we don't start with very little. The predictions about the strength, authority and confidence of his presidency are not encouraging people to judge what we have seen these days. Anyway, I'm in a hurry to say that we're fond of the government that you... you and your government are developing, and we're judging not what we've seen before, but what you can do in the future. And what will you do in the future? What do you want to do? You choose the presidency and you have an obligation to draw where you want to take the country, and I must thank you for being clear on this, both in the documents we have known as in your intervention. You speak, first of all, of ‘materializing...' – they are literal words – ‘the Catalan Republic. Today he spoke of « completing the independence of Catalonia. That's not gonna happen, you know that. Everyone knows this won't happen. And, therefore, I will deal with this compromise, because you know that this will not happen. What I'm worried about is that it's a project... draws a country horizon for a part of Catalan society, not for the whole of Catalonia. And put, in addition, two concrete threads: amnesty and self-determination, which will generate more frustration in one part, if not, of Catalans and Catalans, because neither will they produce. And it won't happen because we live, fortunately, in a democracy ruled by a state of law and we have to respect it all. It is one of the great lessons, not the only one, but one of the great lessons of this pandemic: the need to respect a state of law in which there is no application of these two threads that you have marked. I'm worried, and in this sense he's going to confront us, I'm worried that I'm talking, that I'm drawing a country horizon just for a part of the country. I think you're repeating an error – I said in my later intervention in your second investment debate, in your second investment debate session, the failed one too – is repeating an error based on a great lie: the process, built from five deceptions that I want to remember briefly. The first trick is the trick of a fictional majority. They speak of 52_percent of votes in later elections, they correspond to less than 25_percent over cents: insufficient for any rupturist project. Even more, if I may, the sum of the votes of the Republican Left, Together for Catalonia and the CUP correspond to 48.05_per_cent of the votes, right? You will note – I don't know if they'll let you do it – the votes of the PDECAT. The second deception is a deception of fictional, non-existent institutions that do not represent all Catalans. The institutions of our Government are the ones that are gathered to the laws and conform to our cohabitation: the Parliament, the Presidency and the Government of the Generality. There are no others. Deceiving yourself with a few new institutions is self-deceiving – that's what worries – existing ones. The third deception is a deception of a unilateral approach, disguised as fictitious rights that banish half of Catalan society, making our country's division wider and affluent with the social cohesion we need. The fourth is the deception of linking social advances to rupturistic approaches, which are based on assumptions of insolidarity, from my point of view, incompatible with the authentic values of the left. And the fiveth and last trick is to present the last two years as a few years of success, when they actually present a negative balance for the Catalans and have not carried a win – no win – for our fellow citizens. Your agreement specifies not only where you want to carry the country, but how you want to do it. And they say they want to do it, you say they want to do it, with a dialog and confrontation bar. They talk about dialog and they talk about confrontation. It is, from my point of view, a contradiction that pours its layout and the combination of the document you have donated to know. They talk about dialog and the agreement they signed with the UPC is given two years of terms. « If in two years it does not come out what we want, we rise up... and pull, which is gerund... the woman who seems to us. This isn't a dialog. Dialeg is to be respected; Dialeg is to be listened to; Dialeg is to make efforts to understand's; Dialeg is to reason together. Dialeg is not saying: "Or whatever I want, or I get up and walk away. This fits more into a chant. I was also surprised, I can't help noticing it, the unbelief behind the document they signed with Juntes for Catalonia of this formation respects the fruit that can be given to this dialect. Surprised me, huh? I think that when a board approaches... it starts a process of dialogue with a certain conviction, not watering down the little ones. And I said it, and I say it again: how is it dialogue with vetoes? How's he doing? You did..., very personally you– and I appreciate it, more so, because I think it's what suits Catalonia–, you made the flag of the dial. How is dialogue with the first party in Catalonia? And that's what you signed. Together for Catalonia and the UPC signed a veto on my political party, on a Social-Democratic party; unpublished in Europe. Now it's Catalonia's first game, mine. And I say it with all modesty, but also... it's that. How is dialogue with the first party in Catalonia? I demand that you raise it here, this veto. I demand that you begin your presidency by lifting this veto. Listen to me, I asked... I said that we, in previous years, vetoed the People's Party in Catalonia and said that it was a bad idea and that in... we should not veto democratic parties, even though they have a very long ideology. You don't feel that you will drop the dialog, you want to drop the dialog in Catalonia with a veto that exists today at the first party in Catalonia. I, therefore, ask them to raise it here. And in the matter of dialog, I am concerned that it is not speaking, neither in the documents that I have read nor in his intervention that he has heard, of the dialog in Catalonia, dialog, of course, of the Government of Catalonia, which will have to encapsulate more of you, with the Government of Spain, but also Catalonia endins. Because Catalonia has a plurality of points of view. And if you're honest when you say that you want to rule for southern Catalonia, I think you have the obligation not to give support, to lead a Catalonia-endin dialect, and that better than to do with those we've got representation in this room because the citizens of Catalonia voted for us. And that's about confrontation and embattery, adjecting "democrats." But the subtle adjective, but it doesn't delete the substance. Do you really think we need this today? Do you really believe that today Catalonia needs confrontation? Do you think Catalonia needs a drink today? Do you realize that Catalan society wants to confront? Do you realize that to overcome the virus we have to confront? Do you realize that in order to take advantage of European funds, we have to go and have a fight? Isn't it Europe? Is it not Europe through Spain that provides us with a few cows and provides us with a European foundation? Is the attitude of confrontation and confrontation what Catalan society today demands? Honestly, I don't think so. And, if I may, I don't think it's for you. The country that I have understood in the still scarce relationship that I have had with you, politics, did not seem to me that you are a man of confrontation. I didn't think you were a man to mess with. It did not seem to me that his first reaction before a problem followed by "I will confront it, I will make a strike. It seemed to me that he is a more aviated man..., aside from very correct and polite, more aviated to say: "Well, how do we solve this? For this reason, I believe more in his role as a man of dialogue than as a man of confrontation. But it's important that I clarify it, because, if we do dial, dial it with nothing. We raise vetoes and forget the confrontation for a better time. They have detailed, too, the set of things they want to do. Make a list of most of the things you plant. I'm telling you, we might agree; not all of us, but most of us do. Now, this has a problem, which is added to the credibility, for me already downgraded, to his figure, in the face of the negotiation process that will lead him to be president of the Generality: it is that you have ruled for five or six years. You've ruled, haven't you? And you, for example, talk about... I'll tell you exactly where the place is, right? At the point where you want to see "democratic memory," they say they want to push Catalonia's full democratic memory law, but they've already said it in the past. The last legislature said it would be the first law they would bring to this chamber, and three years later there was no law. I'm not even informed of my company, it's registered in this room. I'm talking about ironing out an institute of... And they're very concrete, and I appreciate it, don't they? They're talking about bidding for the Automotive Training Centre in Martorell, aren't they? And they say they'll do it before September 15th, 2021. It is a precise, concrete, easy compromise to contrast if it has occurred. And if they do, I'll congratulate him. But that's what opened 2015, Mr. Aragonès. President Mas inaugurated it in 2015; 13_million euros, a capacity for 15,000 students, and today there are 100. If 14,900 people who could be enjoying an installation opened in 2015 six years ago are lost. And you went to try to visit him on November 2019. Desert, the contest. And they opened a negotiated procedure in disembarkation. No one showed up, okay. Then, the list they make, which is exhausted, has this problem, which must pass the contrast of the government's action for five or six years. And today I was surprised a little bit, I have to say the political hedonism that I saw in his intervention: the new Republican Generality, many laws... Listen, that does not begin today, will begin tomorrow as the new President of the Generality of Catalonia. But it's that you carry a very important responsibility in the past few years. And you have to hear that a lot of people see with the hope that some things they want..., they're on their way to solving problems in Catalonia, but let's say, "Listen to me, listen to me, that you have years of rule and that's all. Democratic memory or institute, to give an example, or institute of vocational training. They detail a governance structure: I don't here..., there's all the right of the world, I would just miss, the President of the Generality, to structure and organize the government as it seemed best to you and more convenient to it. Allow me – allow me – to tell you that I was surprised that Enterprise and Work are in the same office. I was pleased to hear an explicit mention made of the industry. Catalonia, the Catalan economy, you know better than I do, has a strong dependence on industry, and I think it deserves, at these times, if not a mention, right? In the document and even a recon, why not? The organigram of your government, right? It seemed to me, too...Finally, I preferred a consultancy of infrastructures; point – point –; infrastructure, right? The barrage with digital policies, well, but this... you have a right to organize yourself like you do, don't you? And about the division that they have decided between the partners is also a..., a prerogative that you have and has exempted me from my good colleague, Gabriel Rufián, from commenting more when he said that Junts per Catalunya is not so many Drets. Mr. Batet, today you are wearing a little more left or not so many dreaves. ( Some applause.) And I know that you – I know that you – are a man who has taken everything in a good and sporty way, but know that your government members see him today a little less, and he sees him that way with satisfaction; maybe the week he sees him a little more left, yet he's alerted that he doesn't move to the far left. (Laughter and voice remorse.) About the cohesion and confidence of your government, I told you the other time, Mr Aragonès, I seem to want to go through the thirst for a question of trust two years from now is unnecessary. If there is a solid agreement and you have to govern four years – I say, I aspire to be president of the Generality – if I ever get it. You have to plant, you have to plant for four years. Why do you have to subdue a thirst for a question of trust in two years? I was also caught up, and I got an embolism, with follow-up commissions: five, three more, eight follow-up commissions. It gives the impression, when one looks at it with a certain objectivity, that it is more a system of self-monitoring and mutual vigilance, product of mistrust between you. And they don't do a commission to coordinate existing commissions, because then they won't have time to rule anymore and we want a government that governments for Catalonia. And it seemed to me that it's a system of mutual vigilance produced by mistrust; so good I'm wrong. And from the document of the accords I was also spared that there is not a single mention once the word "Spain; it does not come out. They speak of "the State". Certainly, you, when you are chosen to be the highest representative of the State in Catalonia, do not create this contradiction, assume it – assume it – with all those of the law, which is said. You will be the highest representative of the State in Catalonia. But why don't we mention Spain? We're part of Espanya. It may not please us, it is legitimate that some of you, in concrete terms, say "I want to culminate in independence, I want to leave Spain, but we are part of Spain, you will preside over a government of an autonomous community of Spain. And together, with the rest of Spain, we have achieved very important things: vaccination, for which I congratulated Councilwoman Vergés, I do not know how hard to congratulate her, on the contrary; face-to-face education, European foundations. It's better to recognize things as they are. It doesn't seem to me... it seems like a political unrealism exercise not to mention it. And I've been spared the fact that it's not about self-financing. It got me out of it, because Catalunya has a financing problem. We don't have to go from "Spain" to "don't tell us anything." We need resources for Catalonia; you'll have me at your side to claim and work to get resources for Catalonia, but there's no mention, no mention, of what they care about respect. And I wouldn't say anything about assumptions because there's a government agreement and a parliamentary stability agreement, as it is, at least in the kind of policy that I like to practice, that if there's a government agreement and a parliamentary stability agreement, it goes without saying that there's been some assumptions, but I'm doing it because Catalonia last two years hasn't had any assumptions approved by the 1st generation of the current year. And here you have a challenge to achieve it: that the 1st generation of 2022 has the premise of the 2022 exercise approved. I'm not asking him about this year's premise, I'm not asking him anymore. And it's more, the last six years we've had two assumptions. And I agree with all the effort, and here I will also give you the support of modernity that you want to take to the Generality, but please, let's start with the basics: we have the premise approved in time and form, the 1st generation of the current year, which would already be, given what we've done the past years, authentically revolutionary. And you, in addition, know the material well because it was the counselor of the thing, the responsibility for it. In conclusion, I believe that what you are proposing is not the government that Catalonia needs at this time, because it is drawing a wrong horizon, more a government for one part of the country; because it does not have a level of cohesion, from my point of view, weak; because the president who will lead it, which is you, has seen his authority lowered for the investment negotiation process, and more so, all at a very complex and delicate time, which is a time of the pandemic and the social and economic crisis that we are experiencing. I want to tell you, in all ways, what we think we're doing, the first group of this chamber, and I in particular, as the president of this chamber. We will strive to be an alternative to what you drew here today, to be an alternative. And we'll make a strong and constructive opposition. However... I believe very much in respect, to give time for things to happen; I don't know... I don't like exaggerations, but I think that as much as you as this chamber, as the city council of Catalonia, will hear me if I tell you that we don't give it a hundred days, because we haven't lost masses. Normally we give you a hundred days, to start making opposition, because you organize it, but we take too much time. You recognize it yourself and, therefore, I hope that you understand, the chamber and the city of Catalonia that neither one hundred, nor fifty, nor came nor gave: from the first day we will make a well-educated opposition, we will try that elegant, we will try, if we can, even fun, but powerful from the minute zero; now constructive, also. I made two commitments in this chamber, before you, and before the chamber, two commitments: everything I have to see to fight the virus counts on the support of the Socialist Group. I am aware that of the eight groups that have representation in this chamber, their included, only two have given this support to the Government of Spain when I was the holder of Sanitat: the commons and Citizens. All the states of alarm counted with their support, as many other groups of this room can say the same. It's the same, you have all the support of the first group of the Catalan Parliament in the politics that I tend to see with fighting the virus; tea. (Applause.) And I believe – and I believe – that in just reciprocity I can ask you, when the government is organized, that for the channel that you consider most opportune, I can have my group information about what they think we can do so that we can not contradict and, therefore, give support to what you decide the government and I also assume that it may be of interest to them to know privately those observations that my group can respect. And I also support him with European foundations, I told him so. We're worried here, we think we're having a little trouble, that we can do more work, but we'll give you support, yes. I am willing to accompany you to see the minister you want, the vice-president..., the vice-president you want from the government; if you want me to accompany you to Brussels, accompany you, to give support in this matter to Catalonia. And I think – I think – it's a good picture that the government that you've got with the first group in the chamber and the first opposition group can go, if we agree, fold. Know, in any case, that I make you this offer. He talked about open national pacts. And, look, I'm telling you more: in everything that I don't draw ourselves as an alternative we're willing to wake up and work to get Catalonia out of the way, that's what I can do; in everything that I don't draw us as an alternative, willing to work with you and to agree; the national pacts that you mentioned to me seem good and we can work on it. And I'm done. Catalonia, from my point of view, has a lot of potential, a lot of strength and a lot of gain. It has a privileged geography. We are, the Catalans and the Catalans, people open, inclusive, welcoming. We have a dynamic society, entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, very trained workers. Our story is full of episodes of seny and some of rauxa, but more seny than rauxa. It has allowed us to set up a unique personality of our people, condensed in the so-called political Catalanism, with two notes, from my point of view, very subtractable: the will to build and advance Spain, to involve us in the construction and progress of Spain and also of Europe; a note of indissoluble and indestribable Europeanism of what is the tradition of political Catalanism. The past few years have not been good for Catalonia. That's my point of view. And I have a duty to say it with all honesty, huh? I think, besides, it's a little responsibility of all of us. At least that's how I feel. I think instead of repeating a formula that from my point of view didn't work... what you're proposing is to repeat it, huh? I think, instead, I need to turn full and open a new time. I think, in the place of independence, we have to work for retrobament. I believe that, in the place of debate and confrontation, we need to speak honestly and without limits. And I think it's convenient for a government of public servers to focus on vending the virus, reactivating the economy and ensuring that no one gets stuck. That's what I think it takes. You know my admiration for President Tarradellas. He said in 1955 – he said – and I quote textually: "The worst that could happen, when we hear it – writes President Tarradellas – "outside that by comfort or cowardice we do not have the joy to say at every moment what is necessary. If one and the other we want to do something positive, that no one is allowed to influence for an elusive view or personal mass of what this great joint action of all the Catalan forces must be. I make these words of mine. And so announcing the negative vote of my formation to his investiture and wishing it very sincerely, very honestly, fate and uncertainty, because his fate and his uncertainties will be, if tomorrow he is invested, as it seems, fate and uncertainties of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-20-0601.8.0	Then, to answer, has the word Mr. Pere Aragonès, without time limitation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-20-0601.9.0	Thank you, Your Honor. Counselors and advisors, deputies, deputies... Deputy Illa, let's start, today we may inaugurate what this legislature is in terms of presidency and opposition, thank you all. I think it's good that the confrontation of ideas, the confrontation of projects, and even all the antagonism in many of the positions, can be done in a way of respect, that does not exclude all the strength in the statements. But I think this will improve the level of political debate in this chamber. I, on the way in, let's just say that. And I think that's a good thing. From here on, you spoke of trust, but trust in the end is translated into votes. And if I'm in this debate today, it's because I have the chance to get the confidence of seventy-four Members of this chamber. And it's not just about... And you know perfectly well what the Catalonian Parliament rule is, and it's a... Catalonia is not a presidential system, it's a parliamentary system, and therefore it's president not who gets first in a few elections, but who gets more confidence from this Parliament. And that means negotiating, it means willing to reach agreements, it means flexibility, it means fighting until the last second in order to obtain the necessary and sufficient confidence. And we have been doing it, and obviously we have been doing it in positions, in some areas, extended, but precisely the agreements on extended positions, and good agreements with good follow-up mechanisms, is what makes these agreements strong. The follow-up mechanisms of an agreement are not to be seen as a show of mistrust, but as a guarantee of good functioning. And as an example of this today I have had the opportunity to look at the agreement between PSOE and Podemos, of the Government of the State, and in the public agreement there is no follow-up mechanism. In any case, I'd rather have more than not, because that's what deepens the absolutely necessary confidence. Therefore, confidence is measured in the votes. The alternative to this was a repetition of elections, which I don't think anyone wanted, of which their party has experience, because they were unable to reach an agreement in the Congress of Deputies and there was a repetition of elections, after which you agreed to be Minister of the Government of the State. So I wouldn't want to pass... but it went to Mr. Pedro Sánchez. I don't think Catalonia deserves it. And, therefore, it was important to be able to reach an agreement. We've reached an agreement, we've reached consensus. The idea of consensus, therefore, I believe is important. You also have faith in the good part, about which is the perspective of the government, probably the prognostics with desires. And, therefore, I think it forms part of the desires, what you say will pass, that not of the prognostics, right? So, I have a question. You, who's licensed in philosophy, if I'm not mistaken... and that, therefore, the mechanisms of logic, right? so they're a good way to deal with the discussions. Why is a project that represents 52 percent of the votes divided and one that represents a 48 not? Why? Why is it that he represents a majority of the people who went to vote...? That we want much more to go, that we want in every election to be able to go getting and reinforcing this majority. Why when independence won is divided and when the supporters of the unit of Spain won is not? Despite having a ratio that can vary from a 4 to an 8_per_cent. Why? From the point of view of logic, where is this? Why do we defend what we believe to be divided, we defend the independence of Catalonia, we divide the Catalan society into two, and you, to defend the unit of Spain, that does not have the support of most of the voters who went to vote on the 14th of February, why are you not divided? I think this escapes completely logically. The country is plural and diverse, and when a country is plural and diverse and there are different positions – and that's the way it is – it has to be able to articulate the mechanisms to define which is the popular will of this country. And that's why we're defending a reference, but we're defending a reference because the debate can be in favor of it, against it, because you're going to go to a reference to defend your position and accept losing it, coming up with the case – accepting to lose it. And I think that this, even for the supporters of the Spanish unit, if there was a self-determination reference and the majority of the citizens of Catalonia voted in favour of the Spanish unit – I think that would not be so, but in any case, it came to this case – would strengthen and legitimize its position. Because now what we've seen is that, elected again, the independence majority is not just the parliamentary majority but also the majority of the popular vote. We could go into a debate about whether the left can defend the right to self-determination or not. You defend that idea in which the defence of the right to self-determination on the part of the left should be inversely proportional to the distance of the place you want to emancipate. That is to say, when you are the State..., and the next one, no, and as it went along you are supporters of all references and of all rights to the self-determination of all nations that want to be independent. But as he goes down, that's not it, is it? And so, it's not left, it's Spanish nationalism, it's not left, it's Spanish nationalism. [[Greetings.]] Legitimate – Legitimate. I'm critical of political positioning. It's legitimate to defend this, but I think it's also just to overtify its contradictions. And you've focused a good part of your intervention on talking about vetoes. You haven't signed a veto on independence, but you've verbalized it all the time. As long as he didn't make a single pass to try to reach an agreement, you already told him I think he had few possibilities, didn't he? In fact, zero possibilities. But we're running out of support for the vetoes. That you couldn't get the confidence to be president of the Generalitat is not a veto, it's just that there's an alternative that can get more support. And that's it - that's it. In any case, vetoes..., raise the vetoes. We raise the veto that this Parliament can talk, discuss and approve of everything. Lift up this veto. [[Greetings.]] We raise the veto to which the monarchy can be spoken, we can criticize the Supreme Court's judgment and we can speak of self-determination in this Parliament. Let's raise the vetoes. You ask for a dialect from Catalan society. The Catalan society is represented in this Parliament. The dialogue that we want to bring to an end in the State to defend amnesty, the right to self-determination, a reference in order to resolve the political conflict..., we have the debate in this Parliament. Now, if vetoes arise, then the Constitutional Court does not invade to prevent it from being able to talk about everything. [[applause]] and that it is possible to vote any position that must defend the Government of Catalonia. I think that's... because, if not, then you're not defending vetoes, you're the one defending yourself is getting laid. Therefore, I agree: I speak with the Government of the State to defend the right to self-determination, to defend amnesty, and I speak here to talk about proposals. Ours, right to self-determination and amnesty. What's his name? Who's the proposal to defend Spain's unit? What's the proposal they're defending for Catalonia? Because for now what we have is silence. You're talking about two years later as a frac. What has failed in the past two years is the Spanish State in its ability to offer a seductive project for a majority of Catalans; it has failed the Spanish State when in 2010 the Constitutional Court rolled over even more and detailed the State, and you looked at it with passivity, there was no proposal; it failed the Spanish State when it is unable to formulate any proposal that would entail a constitutional reform, to say the least, and in turn quickly, it went so fast as to be able to make any reform, whether to shield the monarchy or to shield austerity policies. That's the weakness we've been living in these past years. He broke the Spanish state when October 1st said he wouldn't vote, and we voted. That day, too, the Spanish State failed. And it continues to fail today – the parties that defend the current Spanish State project in Catalonia – when the late elections of the Catalonian Parliament do not get a majority, and in the change that got the majority is an independent majority. Therefore, dialect... Let's talk about everything – let's talk about everything –; in defense of its proposal, defend it, that follows the proposal that applies to Catalonia because people fly it, not because it is imposed on people. It's that what we want, what we want in this country, is that how we govern we decide citizenship, and that we can choose, because we are a mature country, a mature society, and that's how we face our backs. And taking refuge in a petrification of norms, a restrictive interpretation of the constitutional framework, as they have done, and that every time it gets worse with the Constitutional Court, it's a mistake, because it undermines the legitimacy of political projects. If you believe in your political project, believe that Catalonia must continue to be part of the Spanish State, defend it in a referendum, dare to defend it, have confidence in its political project, in its proposal for Catalonia. We have confidence in our own. And whatever the result is, we'll accept it – whatever the result is, we'll accept it – as we've always done. Therefore, Dialeg Catalunya ends, yes, above all without vetoes, without prohibitions and without threats from the Constitutional Court. And the pocket to make – the pocket to make. I think there's a lot of work to be done. I want to thank her, so I'm willing to talk about a lot of things. We, therefore, obviously also want to work in the field of industry, in the field of European foundations. He thanked me... and shows me a little bit of the mentality you have of how you want this to go on European foundations, huh? , which is: « Go and see the minister – go and see the minister. [[Greetings.]] I think we should try to get the minister to come, maybe, come to know the production model, come to know the productive economy, the Catalan industry [[remorse of the voice]] And we'd find each other, the projects there are. And in any case – you who tell the ministers trick – we trick them and we talk about it. Many times they may not tell you. [[remorse of the voice]] Or they don't want to explain it, but let's trick and talk about it. And you know that there are projects that we've been working on and that we've asked you to accompany us, and that some things have cost a lot and are still costing. And I think that's what I want to make clear. The Catalan society asks that there be a reconstruction of this country in economic and social terms. I would also like to take advantage of this intervention to make it clear that with the vaccination process that is being carried out in this country and that is being carried out throughout the State and in Europe and in other areas and elsewhere in the world, not yet all the time – still not all the time, and here we have a global challenge as humanity to be able to get the vaccination going so that until we are all protected, everyone will not be –..., with this vaccination process the data related to the pandemic of the covid are improving, they are improving in a continuous way. They place us in a position to be able to make the restrictions that have been limiting our social and economic life more flexible. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the public servants who have been, therefore, at the head of the management of this pandemic and facing the front of the front line, from those who were little ICU or little bed of residence, to those who were responsible for making the decisions. Therefore, a thanks to all the health personnel, to all the staff of the essential areas, of the area of residences, of security, of emergencies, of Civil Protection. And I said, since this is an investment debate and we'll have a new government the week you see..., I'd like to thank the Health and Home Team, the Vergés Councillor and the Samper Councillor, and the rest of the government, who have been working hard for this pandemic. Thank you, Counselor. Thank you, counselor [[applause]] And all the teams that have been working on the management. Because this opens up prospects, vaccination opens up prospects for economic recovery, mobility recovery, but we make a mistake if we go back to a country model that is highly dependent on economic sectors that are often associated with low-skilled jobs. We have to donate it once to this. We have the opportunity in the field of European foundations, but also in the field of measures to be taken by this Parliament. I therefore believe that the country is breathing the need to start a new stage. In this new stage we will put all the effort into it because it is a stage of equity and prosperity. It'll be hot to fight in the defense of rights. In this Parliament we must take steps to protect the right to housing, to protect working conditions, to protect the right to education and we must be the most ambitious. And here I think you'll need to ask for your commitment. It can't be that the State doesn't do things and I didn't let them. Therefore, the two things now cannot be: either you do things and act to guarantee rights or those that we work for because we want to guarantee these rights, that you let us do it and that you do not veto. No vetoes, no blocking, no? So I think we're starting this new stage. Our will is to be able to make the great elements of governance come from consensus, but it is also from the utmost ambition and determination that we can move towards a more just country. And in this sense are the political agreements of the legislature that we signed first with the Popular Unity Candidacy and then between Juntes for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana. Therefore, you say that you will exercise a fun opposition. I hope that's the way it is. But I believe that this Parliament must face up to the challenges that citizenship demands of us, and citizenship demands that we think with the greatest ambition. And in his intervention, in which I have seen, from my point of view, not just an excess of resignation, but an invitation to the resignation of the rest..., so I can't share that. We won't resign. We will not stand by and be fully determined to get this country to be a country of rights and freedoms for everyone; of individual rights and of collective rights. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-20-0601.10.0	Next is the words of Mr. Salvador Illa for fifteen-and-a-half minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-20-0601.11.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Aragones, we will always try to maintain an educated and constructive and correct tone. You have all my recognition. I have never discussed the parliamentary system we have in Catalonia. I know, that to be president what is to be obtained is the confidence of the chamber and you will most likely get it tomorrow. Two times he hasn't got it, tomorrow he'll get it; he'll be the first president of Catalonia who needs three investment sessions, but he'll get confidence. And he'll have all my recognition as president of Catalonia. And all the joy of our group and also all the demand for you to exercise as president of Catalonia. Just know what I'm saying to you: all the joy of my group and of my person and all the demand for you to exercise as president of Catalonia. I realized I didn't fail him before I could handle it more properly. [[Greetings.]] Go ahead and count it out. We are linear– we are linear–, we are coherent. I don't think we've caused you any surprise, either positive or negative, in what we've done since the 14th of February. Now, I'm also saying: I think it would be good for you, as President of Catalonia, to consider that the first group in this chamber is what I represent. That's it. I'm just saying that. But it's not incompatible with the other. I'm telling you. I think it's a given, I think it's a given to take into account. I don't... well, you can organize yourself as you like, as if you want to make a meeting every day. What they want; that's the same, that's up to you. I tell him that the impression that he gave me and that I think he gave a broad set of Catalans and Catalans the follow-up committee rules is that they give the impression that there is a climate of mistrust. That's not so good. If I don't wish it. I said it and I repeat it again: I will judge them, we will judge them for what they do, for the government action they pull forward. And the level of cohesion that your government has is going to prove in the next weeks, months, years. I'm making a plan, I guess..., and I'd like it to be that way, I'm telling you, it's that I'd like it to be that way, I'd like it to be that way, we're already carrying a bunch of dark legislatures to Catalonia, I want a four-year legislature. Well, that's so good. Now, let's put it down, I have an obligation to say it, I think: there's a lot of clues that don't point in this direction. Nor the negotiation process that you have followed because you got this support of seventy-four people... Count, that you have run together five years ago, isn't it that you don't know, huh? - Five years. Moreover, I have already said, I believe that this has earned the prestige of the institutions and their authority. And so many commissions give the impression that after five years we have to watch so much? But, well, they have the right to do whatever they want. I don't want an election rehearsal, I never wanted it. I said what I wanted – and what I didn't get, it's true, for now at least – that is that most of the lefts of this Parliament are articulated in a government of the lefts. That's up to you, and you didn't want it. And they can do what they have for the best. I ask him: "And why have they waited three months? Why on the 21st and 22nd of February, which is the end of the week after the 14th of February, did you not meet with Mr. Sandez and Mr. Pim-Pam-Pum? Why do we have to spend three months...? You were the one who didn't want to make elections on the 14th of February. You were the one who said it wasn't possible. Why do we have to wait three months? With the institutional damage, reputational, from my point of view at least, and his personal and political prestige that he assumed. Why? That's what I can't answer. I can't answer that. This can be answered by you and the political formations. Why? Why three months? And your enmig said: "I govern in solitary. You said it, I didn't say it. I've shut up – I've shut up. I didn't interfere. I noticed that you were still with us and I shut up. And, when you called me about other issues that we'll keep in the private domain and that you've never been to the investiture, I've been at the other end of the line to help with what I've been able to do. It's you who did it, it was you who said that he wanted a government in solitary and that he took on this commitment, and 15 days later he didn't. I mean, that's what we could have done three months back and start working. That's what I said, and you didn't just answer me, did you? And my prognostic has already told him what it is, that for what we have seen there are no wishes. And the discarding of people – the discarding of people, which normally is that people aspire to be part of a government when they illusion –..., I've seen a discard of people, and it seemed to me that this is also a sign, in short, of getting out with little emptiness – let's just stare at it, huh? Now, let's judge what we see, don't have any doubt about it, that's why. We'll judge by what we see. And my wish – I have said it quite explicitly – is that you last four years. And so good to lock him up. I have finished wishing him uncertain and out, because his uncertain and his fate will be those of Catalonia. And I honestly don't know about that. You tell me: « 52_per_cent and why it was divided. Miri, he asked me and I, finally, I did philosophy and... "Why is it divided? I don't think you yourself... because, look, that's why you don't need to study philosophy or make logic or anything; you need to observe reality. [[Rialles.]] And Catalonia today is not more cohesive than it was years ago. There are not so many studies and readings. Cal look, cal walk to Catalunya. And we all know that. And I'm willing to help solve this. And I'm willing to listen. And, in fact, I'm listening to most of... the representatives of this majority of people who disengaged from Spain, I know, have disengaged and want independence. I'm escorting them and trying to understand. I ask you to do the same. And the only thing I say to him is that his plan to mark the time... you said: "I want to complete the independence of Catalonia. And that's divided, because there's a lot of people in Catalonia – it's the same if it's 48, 49, 45 or 51, there's a lot of people in Catalonia – that we don't want that, and we're also Catalans. [[Greetings.]] And you – and you – will represent us from tomorrow, you will represent us. And you must also address these people, these Catalans who do not share ideology. What I say is, "We're making a Catalonian dialect. Seiem, watch us, escort us. And he said, "What do you think? Self-governance and retrobament. And I've written it down. I don't want to poison these days, I'll send you the documents. [[Rialles.]] I'll send you the documents. But he says, "Government is who..., no, 2014. And you can say to me, "He didn't get out. You're right. Neither do you, independence. [[Give me the applause.]] Neither do you. I say, "Let's work for this together, if that's possible. And if not, you have all the legitimacy to defend this, and I also have it to tell you that this, from my point of view, is not the point of finding Catalan society. And it counts, that we're still in the pandemic, and with some social and economic consequences that you perfectly know, well, they're worrying, huh? There are elements to get us out. I agree, and I'll help with that, but these are worrying situations. I don't want to go into mass theoretical debates. I, as I understand it, left values are the values of solidarity. And for me, as I understand it – I say it with the utmost respect – an independentist approach is very easy to contradict a solidarity approach. You're just like I understand. You can hear it and argue it in another way. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I understand that – I understand that. And I say it with all due respect. And I see that Mr. Bargallo denies with his head, and you have the right to deny with your head. But I understand that. For me, the values of the left are inextricably linked to the values of solidarity. And I understand that the settlement, at least as you understand it – let me admit this – is a good part of Catalan society, a settlement that many people have experienced as a settlement of insolidarity and exclusion. And that's what worries me. And I also honestly believe that, in my intervention – and if that's how it went, I've explained to myself fatal, and I've had a lot of better use – I haven't made a scene or an intervention of Spanish nationalism. I'm not a nationalist. [[Greetings.]] No Catalan or Spanish. I don't know. I don't like to put up labels, but if I want to put up one, and make myself happy by putting it - I put'ml' label of 'tarradelista' - tarradelista. [[Some applause.]] And join your party and mine, check it out. [[Some applause.]] If I want to put a label on which I feel recognized, put'ml' label of 'tarradelista, no' nationalist, because I do not soc. Of those who are, I'd just miss it, but I don't know, and I don't think I made an intervention like that. With the vetoes to me it seems – said with all respect – that you have fled the study. I, listen to me, what I'm saying is... you signed a document; I think it was wrong. And to me, the truth – I don't take it as a minuspreu – doesn't take the sound out of me. But I think it's a mistake. You don't get the sound of this document. We're already carrying a few shots fired at all this, you know? But I think it's a mistake. And I think you should start your presidency, well, then, with an approach open to everyone, and in particular, if I may, to a political group, well, that is not the fourth, nor the fifth, nor the sixth, nor the eighth of this chamber, which is the first. You have the support to be president, I don't, but it's the first group of this chamber. I asked for this, and you're talking about vetoes. Listen to me, in a state of law there are some rules of play and they must be respected. And it is normal, moreover, that in a composite state there are conflicts of competence. I am willing to help you, to help my country, which is Catalonia, to which these subjects are resolved. I'm ready. Now, don't scare me, because in all the compost state – in all the compost state, in all – there are conflicts of competition, and the way to avoid them is to respect the legal framework in force, and sometimes there are divergent interpretations that lead to collision. And if there's any situation like this, I'm offering. And it may be that sometimes the Government of Spain is wrong; I don't say no. It's also sometimes a mistake for the Generalitat, isn't it? So let's try, if there's a mistake or a landing, modify it and fix it and pull it forward. I'm telling you that. Then he told me a lot about the weakness of the Spanish State..., yes, in things the Spanish State..., the Government of Spain, so he was wrong, of course he was wrong, the last few years, yes, like that of Catalonia. But he has a presupposition, the Government of Spain. And not here; here we don't have it, we have it extended. I have appreciated..., because one of the things that worries me the most is the modernization of the Government of Catalonia; it is one of the things that worries me the most. And it seemed to me that you, that you're more of a man, a politician, I think, for which I know, let's go, for which I've treated him, that he's a lover of management and that he likes to walk down and down to the detail and manage, let's say... No, I don't criticize him, but there are other ways to exercise a political leadership that consist more of a hand off, to say, "I'm listening... But I think you like that. And I think there's a repte here, that it's not easy anymore, it's not easy. I'll help you here. If you let him help, I'll help him, because I also think I need to modernize him. Now, let's work together with these things that we can work together, but don't tell me that all of them are failures of the Government of Spain and that here... I don't think it's a... I haven't even been around here when I raised this. And I insist. He says to me: "What is his proposal? I told you, the one about self-government and the one about backsliding. I may not like it, but it's mine, it's what I think it can hold a point against, isn't it? , in Catalan society. It's what I think can hold a bullet in Catalan society. When he spoke of the tasks to be carried out he mentioned the European foundations. Well, he said to me, and I think I do, and I recognize him, with a certain grace..., he says: "Well, the ministers... Do you know who decides the European foundations? Europe – Europe. They are the ones who have to give the final print to the projects and they are the ones who can put up with projects. I think we should go to Europe. I don't think we've gone enough – I don't think we've gone enough. And it seems to me that an objective rest of the agendas of the representatives of the Government of Catalonia later... not later than the last year, the last two years, I think modestly that gives me the reason. What I was trying to say is, if you want, if you think I can be used on this assumption, I'm willing. Look, I'm not even asking for it anymore, I'm offering. If you think I can be used, I'm ready. Home, the Social-Democratic family in Europe is not now a majority, but some influence, some influence, in tea. Some tea. And a catal... I know that a lot of deputies don't... I mean, they think a lot different from him, but a catal that we have there is said Josep Borrell. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, yes – yes, yes. If they find out now, I'll worry a little bit. [[Rialles.]] It's the most important institutional facility we have... that has a Spanish and a Catalan right now. And I think, besides, I'd be willing to help. Now, if you don't want to, you have all the right to reject it. I make them a sincere offer: if I want, I help. And I speak as much as I do and discreetly – I don't have to do anything about it – to whom I want the Government of Spain. Something they want to say, too, in the matter of European foundations, and you know it perfectly well. And on October 26th – I have said it several times – he was invited to a meeting with Ursula von der Leyen, and there was a sincere offer from the Government of Spain. It is a huge challenge, the European foundations; it is not easy to spend 140,000_million euros in six years and to spend them well. It's not simple. And you, the government in operation, and you in particular, who's an economic advisor, you know that. And on this assumption I just say: "Help. And, if you frivolize with this offer of help, then you have all the right to do it. I'll keep him going. I, if you don't fly and get your solos, so perfect. And if I do that right, I'll recognize it, as I congratulated the initiator of my intervention, Mrs Vergés, for the vaccination process, and I'm not looking for anything. By the way, why does it cost them so much to recognize that vaccination has been a joint task with the rest of Spain? Why? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, but don't say it, don't say it. And what you say, who will be President of the Generality, is different from what I say, that I have been Minister of the Government of Spain. Why does it cost them so much? It's what it was like – it's what it was. It is that it has made very important contributions, the Government of Catalonia represented for the Councillor Vergés, but also the Basque Government, but also the Autonomous Community of Andalusia, also the Government of Spain. We worked together. And why? Why does it cost so much to say in this room: "We worked together with the rest of Spain's territories and with the Government of Spain in a European framework to get vaccination...? , which is an unprecedented historical success. Why does it cost so much? I don't understand. I think we'd take a little step, but we'd take a step forward if we recognized him, right? In the social sphere, I can count, I said, with our support. Let's look at the layouts you make, but you can count on our support. And I also said I would try to make the opposition, if it could be, fun, but I said it would be blunt. I don't want us to fool them. And I said and I explained why they wouldn't have, we wouldn't give him a hundred days of grace. I said, from the zero minute... And I don't want us to cheat on this. I offer collaboration, but we will make a strong opposition, because the political project that you proposed to the chamber does not share it. And I admire ambitious approaches, but I still admire them most if more ambitious are realistic. Thank you very much, Mr. Aragones. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-20-0601.12.0	Then you have... [[Pause.]] The candidate refuses to make the counter-replication, therefore, will continue to have the words of Mr Albert Batet, president of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-20-0601.13.0	Many honourable Presidents, Members of Parliament, members of the Government, Councillors, Councillors, Mr Aragonès..., also to greet the Presidents of the Generalitat who are accompanying us today, who can do so in person, and also to greet the Presidents of the Generalitat and the Parliament who are not accompanying us today, and who know that they are also following this session, such as the President of the Parliament, also Republican, President Forcadell ; with President Puigdemont, also republican, in exile – and in prison. Both a cordial record, to the presidents who cannot be here the result of the repression of the Spanish State. [[Greetings.]] If I may, with total cordiality, as Mr. Illa has made a personal reference to me, has he not? I can tell you that I'm a Catalanist, a very puigdemontista, huh? , and that each school uses the concepts that it thinks are most appropriate to express its ideals, which are also demonstrated with those political initiatives that are developed. You said that the values of the left are those of solidarity. So, man, the Socialist Party, let's say this week these left values have been able to show them, which are, by vetoing a law trans, with VOX and the PP, to the Congress of Deputies. [[applause]] , and, as we have seen, shamefully, with deportations and returns to Ceuta and Melilla. [[Greetings.]] If these are the ideals of progressiveism, I must say that we certainly do not share them in absolute terms. Good afternoon to everyone. Mr. Aragones, candidate, today and tomorrow we will have an important session. With this session, with your investiture, Mr Aragonès, let us begin the appeal of the Government of 52_per_cent; of the Government which will involve the wider endorsement of the history of democracy in autonomy to the Parliament of Catalonia in order to advance towards the Catalan Republic; of the Government which, of course, will also have to lead the course of the health, economic and social crisis. Citizenship gave us a very clear mandate on February 14, 52_per_cent. This was the result of independence in the polls, which is why tomorrow you will be invested as president. The independence parties separately lost the elections, but independence in the joint won the elections; the sum of the different identities of independence won the elections more strongly than ever before. Therefore, without the majority of one party or another party, thirty-three to thirty-two, the citizenry gave us a very explicit mandate: unity. And he said to us, "Agree. And we agreed. Today we have an agreement for a legislature that must allow Catalonia to have an independent, strong and stable government. Certainly, we have done more than we would have liked; more than three months of the elections have passed, and there have been almost a hundred days of negotiations, long and intense negotiations. That is why we also take advantage of this Ple in order to reiterate our apologies, as the Secretary General of our party, Jordi Sànchez, and you already did the same day. Politics improves with self-criticism, just and necessary. And that's what we're close to doing here before the city. Mr. Illa recognized my sincerity – sometimes – of my statements. And, of course, but here in Catalonia, despite the fact, we agree, not as in Madrid, as you, the PSOE and Podemos, have done, that they forced the citizens to return to the polls to end by closing an agreement only fifteen days after a second election. Few lessons can certainly be learned from political practices when we see that they apply from the Spanish and Madrid States. So, today and here, in his parliamentary office, we have to recognize that it is an agreement that is worked, done and even done; an agreement that we have wanted to explain well and speak with militancy from Junts for Catalonia, to assume the risk of being rejected in an internal consultation, where the agreement was approved by a large majority, demonstrating a great sense of country. For this reason, it is a well-established agreement, an agreement that will bring stronger, more coherence, more stability than any other agreements that are closed in a hurry and run during the first weeks of negotiation. Because there was a job that we needed to do and that we did; a job that took time, certainly more than we all wanted, but that required discretion, generosity and responsibility. We may not be living with this historic agreement now, but it can be an agreement that you make history. We come from a legislature where we have an agreement that certainly raised many expectations and we ended up going further down; on the other hand, the agreement that we have today formalize is different: it certainly does not raise the same expectations, and this can be its virtue and a new opportunity, and we end up going further down. Because it's on a very solid basis, 52 percent of the votes, and now it's looking for us to search the path of this agreement and fill in what's more than statements and abstract concepts. Depending on how we do it, we'll see if the effort is worth it. From experience, we know that we only advance if we act as allies, with unity, with loyalty and mutual trust. From the Junts for Catalonia we have defended that this is the legislature of « let us recover and « let us prepare ourselves, of « the Junts for iron and « the Junts for being ; let us recover from the sotrac provoked by the coronavirus and let us prepare ourselves to build the Catalan Republic. As I said, since the same night of February 14, the result of the elections represents a historic victory of independence. If the repression and persecution of the State pretended to silence, fear or desist independence, the response of the citizenry is this: 52_percent votes and 74 deputies. And if the repression and persecution of the State wanted to liquidate and make the independence parties disappear, the answer is this: the legislature agreement and the government agreement to make independence possible and to absolve the Catalan Republic. They want broth? So two cups. And so clearly we tell them: this is the reality, Mr. Illa, of Catalonia, even though some here and some there do not like them. Independence is still alive and determined. Sense of doubt, repression has left us wounded that we still suffer, especially those who are in prison and exile and those who are persecuted by the courts or those who have to face many million dollars. But the repression has not doubled or defeated us, all the contrary. Now we are more aware of our weaknesses, but we are also more aware of our strengths. And we know that we are stronger when we work together, when we conjure ourselves up to define a joint strategy that compromises and challenges us all. We did it on November 9th, we did it on October 1st and October 27th, and we won. Now, the three independenceist parties, legitimately, have different approaches. It is only necessary to review the three electoral programmes of each formation. It's an undeniable obvious. Juntes' commitment to Catalonia is with the first of October and the declaration of independence of 27 October. In fact, there is no agreement in this Parliament that you have invalidated this agreement or cancelled it. Moreover, it has been reinforced with 52_percent independence vote, and this obliges all of us... In fact, it is obvious that, if Together for Catalonia disposed of 68 Members, we would want to take a determined path, the same way that if Left Republican has achieved 68 Members, that would want to follow theirs. And the same with the CUP, of course. Of course, we wouldn't have the same strength and possibly we wouldn't get to the right place, because there wouldn't be the same compromise and the same involvement on all sides. Taxation is never the solution. The citizenry knows perfectly well, because it did, this, the polls. He has held us responsible for hearing us, for moving forward together. Therefore, the first duty we had was to close the starting points that we share, combine the different strategies and establish the coordination and consensus spaces to have a collegiate direction. So it's on the government agreement that we've come to. And then let me refer to each of these questions. The five starting points we share are: first, "the right of self-determination is the only way to resolve the political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State. According to them, "Amnesty is the only possible solution to put an end to repression. Thirdly, "only a self-determination reference granted to the Spanish State can replace the political mandate of the first October reference. Fourthly, "a strong government, with a clearly independent agenda to strengthen our positions. And five, "it is necessary to resume the joint initiative of independence. It's a few points of consensus that we've been sharing for a long time and that we need to use as a compass to guide us and not divert us from the path. Therefore, we are talking about the need to combine the different strategies, to draw a shared path to achieve our shared goal. We have the path of the dialog and the path of confrontation. And, of course, there are those who intend to show that these two positions are opposed, but they are not. Politics itself is confrontation and negotiation. They're two caretakers of the same coin. There are two complementary and necessary visions at the same time. The question lies in which is the strategy that prioritizes, with which intensity, with which graduality applies. And here, obviously, the points of view of the three groups are divergent, but the result of the ballot boxes are those that are 33 to 32. The independence party won the election, but it won them the combination of independence. This is the strength of the unit and the government agreement. We have the mandate of the 52_per_cent independenceist and, therefore, it has all the logic of the world that we combine the different strategies. Reaching agreements like today will allow... tomorrow, investing Mr. Aragones implies giving in, making concessions. That's why, from Juntas to Catalunya, we give a new honest opportunity to the dial table. Our scepticism will not be an impediment to working, to participate loyally in the dialogue process, and we hope to negotiate with the Spanish Government. We have always said that the best solution to resolve the political conflict is through a self-determination reference granted to the State. Now, we all know that the negotiation process with the State has enormous difficulties and very limited possibilities, and especially if we can't increase our bargaining power. We cannot forget that no Spanish government, either of the People's Party or of the Socialist Party, or of the Socialist Party with Podemos..., no Spanish government has ever opened a real way of dialogue with the initiator of the independence process. Mr. Illa says that he is surprised by the few hopes in the dialog that Junts poses for Catalonia. So look, yesterday we saw yourself as your first secretary, now current minister, Mr. Iceta, refused... Minister of the Spanish Government, refused to negotiate amnesty and self-determination. The Catalan minister, who already rejects the dialogue and negotiation from the very beginning, who should be more willing to address the conflict. Nothing more to say. And then he invites us to go to Europe to explain and resolve and to do politics from the Generality of Catalonia, and at times his institutions, like the Court of Auditors, put many million dollars to the Government of the President But and President Puigdemont, a number that can't be... Listen to me, unimaginable can be put so questioned the Government of the Generality of Catalonia. For this reason, we also share the lives of the democratic confrontation with the Spanish State in order to achieve the Catalan Republic. And, in this sense, we will be warmed by the involvement and complicity of all the actors of independence, from political parties to civil society. Only together we advance and only together we win. For this reason, with the agreement to govern details of coordination spaces with a collegiate strategic direction that defines the steps shared in all spheres of action, both from an institutional and social point of view. A point of finding that allows you to set strategic objectives, concreteize political action and citizen mobilization, promote the unit of action in all legislative chambers, in all issues related to national emancipation, and take urgent responses before the threats of rights and freedoms, and in particular before the repression of the Spanish State. And we bet that this space stands out from the Council for the Republic. Let me be clear, Juntes per Catalunya recognizes the sovereignty of the Catalan institutions, and in any case we have never contemplated any guardianship, as the same President Puigdemont has recognized, in public and in private, as you yourself know. We understand that this formula of coordination and direction collected is the best guarantee for not making past mistakes and taking the initiative again. It would have been a huge irresponsibility to take advantage of the historical opportunity of 52_per_cent. We can't afford the country. It would have been a big mistake to squander the hopes of most Catalans and Catalans to consolidate the Catalan Republic. We couldn't afford it. In the same way that it would have been unforgivable to indulge in the individual and collective efforts of the later decade. We cannot escape the kingly thread of 9 November, of the U of October or of the declaration of independence of 27 October, nor can we allow the sacrifices that are made by many companions who suffer from imprisonment, exile or judicial persecution, to be stopped from being heard. They must, they must. Because we cannot forget that the cause of the Catalan Republic is the cause of freedom, progress and well-being. Let's get ready, then, to make it happen. We're ready. Tanmateix, as we mentioned earlier, also needs to recover from the consequences caused by the health, economic and social crisis. That's why I call a good government. It's what Juntes wants for Catalonia, a good government. We know the difficulties that many families see, because it touches us. With greater or lesser measure, everyone has been affected by this pandemic; no one has come out unharmed. Many people have economic problems to push forward, many people also suffer the emotional consequences of the pandemic. There are people who have lost family or friends because of the virus; people who have suffered from the disease; workers who have gone unworked; entrepreneurs who have had to close the business; citizens who have gone unguarded or people who during the months have not seen their parents, their children or their friends as a precaution and avoid the risk of the infection. And we can't help but thank all the professionals, health professionals and social workers, and all the essential services that made everything easier. Infinite thanks to all in the name of Juntes for Catalonia. Because managing the pandemic has not been easy for any government, and it has still been less for the Government of the Government of Catalonia. We must remember that the pandemic broke out with the exhausted legislature and that Catalonia had to do its part since October without having a president because of the irresponsibility of the Spanish State. For many months, therefore, we have had a functioning government, which, despite everything, has fulfilled its obligations, and today is a good day to recognize it and thank it. For example, for example, the vaccination rate, which already exceeds three million doses in Catalonia. Now, with the new government, we are close to making bold, solvent and effective decisions, with a look of present and future to protect the welfare state and to ensure economic recovery. They can't and can't leave anyone behind. We have to be on the side of people, because everyone has a life of dignity and opportunity to develop their life and future project. And this is our priority and, therefore, allows us to highlight those measures that we consider most relevant from Juntes per Catalunya. First, design a plan for economic recovery and social protection through the European Foundations Next Generation. Second, to develop a secure opening plan of the activity of the new post-war pandemic context in the economic, social and cultural fields. Thirdly, to promote the new national plan for industry and a plan for territorial reindustrialisation with a global view of the whole country. Fourth, develop a shoal plan for youth occupation. Five, provide health resources with €5,000_million over the next five years and enhance the integration of social and health services. Yes, gradually increase the educational presupposition to bring us closer to the 6_per_cent of GDP and defend the Catalan school model. Set, increase the housing assumption up to 1,000_million to meet public spending on housing policy up to the European mitjana. Then, push a national pact for language, to protect language, to encourage it, to increase its use among the people of Catalonia. And to guarantee – new – the expenditure with the country of two-hundred euros/inhabitant of culture, with a commitment to allocate it with at least 2_percent of the presupposition. And yet, to develop a programme of dynamism in the areas of Catalonia affected by depopulation to ensure a territorial balance, especially in digitalization, which is the most important economic revolution we are living in. We have therefore promoted an agenda of reconstruction, of transformation of the service of the country and of its people, which gives response to economic, social, climatic and digital challenges, of parity and of governance. As I said, we need to take a long look and the obligation to lay the foundations of the country we want for the next generations. We want a country that moves to the knowledge society, that promotes quality employment, that has a vocation as an international leader. We want a country that prioritizes welfare, equality, civil rights, work for territorial rebalancing, respect the environment and remain energetically sustainable. And we want a country that is fully democratic. We have the ambition to be, to be a country of freedom, of progress and of benefiting, and we also have the potential to do so. Catalonia has experience of avant-garde and modernisation, of pencar de valent, of having internalized the culture of effort, of undertaking, of innovating, of excelling in many emerging sectors. Catalonia, the Catalans and the Catalans want to win the future, but we must remember that we cannot live fully in the Spanish State, because it is a state that is against us, with some laminated skills and with a tax deficit of 16,000_million euros per year, which we have often remembered that it does not allow us to manage our own resources. That's why we have to work to get to the Catalan Republic. I'm done. Candidate Aragones, tomorrow will have Juntes' stated votes for Catalonia. It is public and notoriety from the sealed agreement a few days ago. Tomorrow he will assume the highest honor that a city can aspire to, which is to preside over his country and become the one hundred and thirty-two president of the Generality of Catalonia. He will, therefore, be the president of the legislature and the government of 52_per_cent, of the government with the widest independence support of history. We know that you are aware of the enormous responsibility that this historic tape of independence represents. Let's stick to it, because we can't spoil the dreams and hopes of so many people. He'll have us on his side with loyalty, with compromises, but we'll do so with firmness, with determination to move forward and win the Catalan Republic. We wish him all the luck and all the uncertainties, because his fate and his uncertainties will also be the fate and the uncertainties of Catalonia. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-20-0601.14.0	Then, to answer, has the word Mr. Pere Aragonès, without time limit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-20-0601.15.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, councillors, councillors, congressman Batet, thank you very much for your intervention. I would like to begin by thanking Junts for his support for this investiture, for the agreement that we have reached on these last days and for the support that his organization – which they have submetre-ho, therefore, also to the consideration of his militancy – has manifested in this coalition government that he will begin to walk on the next days. There's been an agreement that we agree that all the folds have been pleased that you've arrived sooner. Different, strategic prospects, but probably also for the mass of experiences in a very difficult context of the past few years, immigrating to a repression of the State that is criminal repression, but also administrative or even economic repression, condition, right? They have surely conditioned the looks with which we want to focus the future towards the independence of Catalonia, in which we agree. Probably the time spent has been too much –" probably not, it has been too much, without the" probably, it has been too much – and, for my part, therefore in everything that has been the responsibility of the one who speaks to them, in which it has been possible to take a little longer than it was desirable, therefore, to carry my request for an apology to the citizenry. But in the end, what has become very clear is that what unites us is much stronger than the different perspectives that there may be in sectoral programmatic areas or also in how to focus the independence process. The desire, will and determination to advance towards the independence of the country are much stronger than the one that separates us. And I think this is an extraordinary strength that we must preserve. And, besides, one of the elements that have forged this agreement is the concept of consensus; of a consensus not only in the measures of government, in these measures of good governance – then I will enter it – but also in the strategic consensus that there must be to increase our strength in order to be able to bring many more possibilities of success to what is our path to the independence of the country. And we're not born of no-res. This doesn't happen again and again; this 52_per_cent doesn't need the 14th of no-res fever. It's the fruit of a trajectory that's long gone back in time, far beyond what it is... which are the events of the past decade. The word "Catalanism today has come out again in this Parliament and Catalanism has always been as much as fighting for the freedom of the country. And in different historical times, this freedom has been situated, in a majority or not, in a certain time and many years ago this time is that of independence, it is that of the full sovereignty of Catalonia. A trajectory in which many people, to defend the freedom of this country, to defend continuity as the political community of Catalonia, to defend democracy, left many things for the road. And today, unfortunately, in the Europe of 2021, there are people who for the defense of their ideas, for their democratic compromise, for making the U of October possible are either engaged or in exile. And it shows, precisely, to what extent they have had to sacrifice what is their personal welfare, their personal freedom, for the defense of what has been a political project that fully connects with the history of political Catalanism, isn't it? You have placed many of the elements that we share and that form part of these bases and consensuses of the Strategic Agreement for the Catalan Republic. I quote a few more, which I think is also important to keep in mind, and which should be the map of the future in which we can die, right? In the first place, increase the fortalezas. What we want to achieve, which is the culmination of Catalonia's independence, requires a much greater accumulation of forces. And this has been one of the constants of debate, work, work, right? , in the negotiations that have taken place in these last months and, above all, the work we have to do in the future. We have all the legitimacy, but the State has the strength or has a good part of the strength. Therefore, we need to accumulate much more, with democratic force, in order to overcome the weaknesses and, as I said, consolidate the fortalezas. The defence of the right to self-determination and, therefore, that our process will always be..., and the acquittal of the objectives of Catalonia's independence will always be a scrupulously democratic process. Our country project is a country project that we always want to be validated for citizenship. I said this before in the speech addressed to the deputy Salvador Illa of the PSC, we want every step we take to be a referendum for the citizens of Catalonia. It doesn't always make us put, in the ballot box, in a referendum, the decision of the citizenry, which must be the way to keep going. And, therefore, the right to self-determination, which Catalonia decides its future and decides its citizens freely, is a fundamental element, which connects with another of the characteristics of the political Catalanism of all its history, which has been an indissoluble compromise with democracy. Always. He's always been like that. And when Catalanism has also advanced, when the process of building and national emancipation of the country has advanced, it is when it has also been able to associate itself with a process of social progress, with the idea of social progress of transformation of the country. And, today, being aware of this must serve as a basis for us to move forward and, as I said, draw what the map should be in which this legislature and the government should move. And in the current context, we clearly defended amnesty. We clearly defend the amnesty, because the procedure followed by the Supreme Court, the procedure followed by the Court of Auditors and so many other open cases that have arisen, are part of a general case which has a clearly political origin and intention, disqualified from being in the law, disified with the penal code, but which is in fact the criminal code of the enemy. And we know that, we're very present. And if not, you have not been denied by international bodies, you have not been denied and questioned by courts of other jurisdictions outside the Spanish State. Therefore, from these consensuss, from all that we share, what it is now to set aside a government that must be as cohesive as possible, as cohesive as Catalan society demands. Therefore, what I acted as a block_sol, as a government block_sol. We have the experience, the aspects that we want to correct, but also the aspects that we want to put in value. And you have clearly placed in these past eight months that, because of the unjust disqualification of President Quim Torra, we have been in a functioning government. And the experience of these eight months, of this government in operation, with my companies and companies, I think it's a show to work together, obviously, there are times when it's been easier and times when it's been difficult, but working together to overcome adversities and do it with the greatest ambition. And one of the examples of this greatest ambition has been that, in a context of economic and social crisis without precedent, the Government of Catalonia has been of all the autonomous governments of the State – "autonomous government of the moment, because we have the will to go much further – it is what has done more support measures in euros per inhabitant of the whole State, 230 against eighty in middle. And that's what this government did. Counselors, regardless of their party affiliation, have worked in this sense. And I think this is an excellent basis. And we have, moreover, modernizing ourselves. Modernizing procedures, transforming forms of work, breaking the bureaucratic barriers that exist. Therefore, it is a positive basis from which to move forward. A political project from the institutions, such as the Parliament of Catalonia, the Government of Catalonia, which are the institutions representing the citizenry, from this fort, advances when it is able to associate with more rights for the citizenry. Our project, the project of Catalonia's independence, is a project that defends more right for everyone, than it needs to detail rights of no one, only to offer it more. More democracy, therefore, more citizen participation, more accountability, constant evaluation. And associated with better welfare. And, therefore, I welcome many of the measures which, therefore, Mr Batet has highlighted from this joint agreement, which is this greatest ambition in terms of the state of welfare, also of our country. And it's got to be a government that, we want this country to be free, but let's face it, Catalonia is fair, all of it, running, with all the barrels, with all the villains, with all the cities, is more important than ever that a complete project for the country is headed all over the country. Also, as I said, those ideological, political, social sectors that until now reject the idea of an independent Catalonia, but that independent Catalonia will never reject them. Because this is the country we have, this is our country and this is the country with which we want to move together. Therefore, it is essential that the first measures taken by the Government continue to address the emergencies that we already have today, as we have done, not only with the support measures, but also with the continuous improvement of public services, in sanitation, in the health system, in education, in the field of social protection and social rights, but also, apart from today's emergencies, to look up and see all the transformation that we need to make tomorrow. I have placed four transformations – which is one way to explain it and I think that a good part of the chamber can feel reflected. Transformation into the social sphere. We need to fight inequality. Before he talked about what he divides and doesn't divide Catalonia. The division of Catalonia is the inequality, which this pandemic has accelerated even more. And, therefore, we must fight from two points of view, not only from social redistributive policies, as envisaged in this agreement, but also from an economy that generates welfare and prosperity for everyone, in terms of predisposition and redistribution. And also heading for a new product model. And we have laid the foundations of a product model. And here we have fortales, in the country, we have a more diversified economic structure today than in the previous crisis, in 2008. We have an industrial structure of our country around 19_percent of the gross domestic product, 19, 20_per_cent, which has been maintained at the length of the years and which has two fundamental characteristics that make it an extraordinary base for the future. For one band, international orientation: since 2008 you have been selling goods and serving them outside the State, selling goods and serving to the State and, therefore, the internationalization of our economy is a key element. More scopes, more markets, is what allows us also to take on dependencies in this economic sense of the Spanish state market. Second place, innovation. We have an industrial and productive structure that is innovative, but it has to be much more. And here we have marked important goals. The other transformation is the green, and here we have many folds forward. And this is an obligation we have. It is an obligation that we have if we do not want to stay back not only in the way of living, but in the way of producing, consuming, distributing. The feminist transformation, which must also have been in all policies. The creation of the women's and equality council is a way of giving more force than ever the cross-cutting policies that have been made before and that we want to continue to do much more forcefully in the field of fighting against gender inequality, of fighting against male violence. And now we have a new instrument. And obviously the democratic transformation, because everything we want to move forward for this country has to be democratically validated. There are other changes that are occurring. The pandemic has accelerated the transformations of funds, trends that have been going on for some time and that we need to know how to carry on and that we need to know how to fight, and so on. The changes in the production model can be more precarious, or with intervention, with the leadership of the Government of Catalonia, of the country's public institutions, and with more prosperity. The pandemic has accelerated some inequalities that are already coming, that are very deep in our society, and this we must be able to reverse. And that's why we need a strong government, and that's why I'm celebrating the agreement we've reached. Also changes in the product model of digitization, robotics. We have a powerful industry, but we have areas, such as the automotive, chemical, and even in the field of copper, for example, in the area of pork, which have to undergo great transformations if we want to continue to feel sustainable sectors of the future, and which continue to generate jobs. In short, Joan Fuster goes... that phrase many times repeated, right? "All politics that we don't do will be made against us," he said, "You either make politics or they make you do it, don't you? So, all the transformation that we do not drive in a democratic collective way and from institutions will be done with other inertias, either from the State or the inertias of globalized markets that can obviously generate opportunities, but they also generate inequalities that we have to fight and that we have to correct. Therefore, this must be a government with a transformative agenda, as I said, and a government that must be very present and compatible – and in this sense I believe that it is precisely in making it compatible where there is a reason to be of the coalition of government that we are, that we start to open not this week, but also of the agreement of the legislature to which we have reached, enlarged, of all independence – it must make compatible what this transformation must be in the social, economic, this defense of social and economic rights, and of shared prosperity, at the same time, with a clear defense that we know we will, only have, all the tools to achieve it on the day that we become an independent state. And, therefore, our commitment to this independent state, to culminate the process of independence of Catalonia, with a strategy that must be able to combine the contributions of the joint independence. I think we should make the most of what must be a negotiation with the Spanish State. And that, as we are more determined, as we are stronger, as we have more ability to act independence, independence for ourselves, we will have more strength in this negotiation. Therefore, it is essential to strengthen us, improve the correlation of forces, prepare us. We put in the verb we want to put in, that each one puts in its own, but we already know what we're talking about. Therefore, this is absolutely – absolutely – essential, in order not to give an excuse, an excuse, to resolve the political conflict, as are the political conflicts in advanced societies, which is dialogue, negotiation and voting, and which decide citizenship. That must be our objective. Therefore, I would like to thank – and with this I finish – Together for Catalonia not only the support for tomorrow's investiture; I would like to thank them above all the joint work that we will continue to do, with much more intensity, with more strength and with some working mechanisms, with a shared program, much deeper from now on. And I believe that this must give us prospects for good governance and for the future for society. In the end, the political compromise of many of the people..., of all of us, but also of many of the people we know... You mentioned President Puigdemont and all of his Government, the Government of Vice President Junqueras, President Forcadell, social leaders Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez... We have Congresswoman Meritxell Serret, therefore, who has been able to return from an unjust exile. We know that the relaxation of rights often involves sacrifices. On our part, on the part of the independenceist majority, to give them more sense than ever. And I think we've come to an agreement, an agreement that's solid, an agreement that's taken a long time, but I think it's an honest and sincere agreement. And so I have heard, especially in these last few days, that, therefore, I have taken the responsibility of being able to finish forcing him, and that is what must be felt, our political action, to all the people who have preceded us and to all the people who have not abandoned us, but we have them at the side and in front of our political spaces, are contributing to achieving all the rights and freedoms for this country. So, thank you very much. I count on your support and you can count on my support, my loyalty and all the collaboration. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-20-0601.16.0	Well, then there will be no reply from Mr. Batet. Therefore, after this intervention, we suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Thank you very much.
