ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.1.0	Good morning. Please, take your seats and we'll start the session. Before initiating the oral questions to the Government and the President of the Generality, the admonition that the Government has requested, once all the parliamentary groups have been informed, that Question No 13 may be substantiated as the first of the oral questions to the Government. And since all the groups have expressed their compliance with this change, if there is no objection, we will proceed, first of all, to question number 13 and then continue with the sorting of questions as it had been established, and so on. [[Ask the Government about renewable energy]] [[310-00074/13]] He therefore asked the Government to respond orally in the plenary session on renewable energies. The question is posed by Mrs Silvia Paneque, Member of the Socialists and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Counsel, our parliamentary group is concerned about the development of renewables. Let's consider that the acquittal is absolute. And we want to ask him whether he will maintain the moratorium that is actually working in Catalonia or whether he wants to complete the objectives that mark us from Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.3.0	To answer, has the word Ms Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.4.0	Very good morning to all of you. Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Mirin, from this council and with the obvious connivance of the government, we are absolutely enjoined to complete, obviously, the energy transition, huh? And obviously also, if I may say so, what we aspire to and want to do, a sense of doubt, is to pass it from oligopolises and the extractive economy, but what we really want is an energetic model that is transformative. It is not only transformative, but it is going to be, therefore, involved, of proximity, obviously also, distributed, and above all, transformative of the economy; but not only of the economy, but also transformative of society, because where energy is generated, it also implements new economic activity.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.5.0	To answer the question, you have the word "Madam Paneque".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.6.0	Yes, thank you very much. I am pleased to hear this answer in the first part, which wants to complete the European objectives, but unfortunately, you will advise, the data do not support what you say. At these times thirteen wind farms are being processed in Spain, zero – zero – in Catalonia. Catalonia is home to the rest of Europe in renewable energies, and it is a tragedy, if there is any, in this one, both in terms of fighting climate change, as well as in terms of economic development. Europe has speeded up time, set more ambitious targets because it has come to terms with it, that global warming is much more dangerous than it was at first thought. Therefore, please donate: they are not anonymous criteria, we are at the last moment to avoid disaster. Catalonia already suffers the consequences of climate change. More than 1.8 degrees respects the pre-industrial era. Gloria to groninic comarques, it was a serious warning. Catalonia has done absolutely nothing in renewable energies in the last few years. Sweden, countries of the area... Scandinavian, in this matter, so, go, they're spearheads to Europe. Germany generates more than 50_percent of renewables; Spain has already exceeded 30_per_cent; Catalonia, a 16_per_cent, and in final consumption, only a 7_per_cent. There hasn't been a single project in these last two years. You have been a part of previous governments, so you cannot ignore the evolution of renewables in Catalonia. The economic fabric has asked it publicly: « we want renewables in Catalonia. You're worried about the territory. Us, too. Leaderi, from the public sector, the cry for renewables to Catalonia. That Catalunya needs it and demands it. Therefore, she asks the Councillor to rectify the inaction of these last two years in Catalonia. The change is urgent, it is absolutely necessary and we ask him to lead it from the public institution.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.7.0	To answer, you have the word Counselor Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.8.0	Thank you very much. Miri, I'll be right back. We're extremely aware of who the sifters are, aren't we? And in this case, 2030, if we want to shut down nuclear power – which is, of course, intent – we need..., at these times, huh? , to set an example, get to the deu_mil megawatts. This means that we would have to multiply by 17.5 in this case, therefore, solar production or, for example, wind power for three. But we are here to provide solutions and not problems. And all that, we have to do it with maximum connivance with the territory. He's done deciding for the territory, without the territory. And that's exactly why we've made this modification or we're putting the changes in this amendment of the decree, which you know perfectly and which lines we've changed perfectly. But this government works – I return –, I insist, sense of doubt, to accelerate this deployment of renewables. To arrive, obviously, 2050, at cent_per_cent. The energy transition we have to make between everyone and everyone, sense of doubt. And the territory has to participate, it has to become its own. But the territory is not just a lot of hectares, there are people in the territory; and these people must see an opportunity also, in any case, respect this energetic transition. And we have to do it between all of us, for sure, together. The objective is clear, it goes through the model of ‘not so', the model of ‘so yes' and ‘here yes'. This is the end of this government. The goal is to breathe, sense of doubt, clear air. And obviously also shut down nuclear power. This transition is inevitable. We'll do it, and we'll do it between all of us, in a sense of doubt, to embrace these objectives that I told you in the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.9.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the character of the Generalitat in the persecution of dissent. [[Ask the Government about the character of the Generality in the persecution of dissent]] [[310-00081/13]] Asks the question Laia Estrada, of the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, we had..., will not be done by Mrs. Estrada, will be done by Mr. Xavier Pellicer, of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.10.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, the repression of the Spanish State against independence continues in a general way. And the Generalitat, in accounts of posing at the side of the people, has been too often the correct transmission of repression. In this sense, our position is clear: that a turn of one hundred and forty degrees in the policies of the Generality, also in the area of rights and freedoms, for example, with the withdrawal of accusations. So, I ask you: two months after the government's initiative, who are the actions that have been carried out by the Interior Council to give compliments to the minimum agreements that the Republican Left and the CUP have undertaken? In particular, what measures have been taken to ensure that the minimum allowed respect for the withdrawal of private charges against participants in mobilizations and respect for the unification of the Interior Department's lawyers and lawyers' body in the central structure?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.11.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.12.0	Now? Yeah, okay...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.13.0	I don't work them and tank them, they're directly open.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.14.0	No, no, I can imagine, yeah. But, well...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.15.0	If it feels good, now, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.16.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies. Deputy, we, our duty from the Department of Interior is to guarantee rights and freedoms. Guarantee the rights and freedoms of citizens and ensure that they want to manifest and that they want to participate in claims and also guarantee the rights and freedoms of citizens who do not want to participate. I want to put a date. There are, in the year, fourteen thousand, approximately, mobilizations to our country. About fourteen thousand. Since 2018 there have been twenty-i-five thousand. There have been thirty-three sanctions. That's the reality. Therefore, a reality of little conflict. This is thanks, in part, to the work that is also done by Mossos d'Esquadra, by mediation, to try to approximate positions. Try to age so that the mobilizations work correctly. Our capture has always been to defend these rights and freedoms. And also, naturally, defend the police of the Generalitat when acting. And also, necessarily, defend it when it suffers aggression. That's our criteria, and that's that we're always defending the Squad Mosses, in case there's any kind of injury. That's the grip and the criteria that there is, ever since there's this counselor, from this new government, to defending Mossos whenever there's some kind of injury to them. That said, we want to continue defending the squadrons with the same clarity and strength that has always been done when they suffer injuries. And do it with all clarity and determination, when you suffer injuries. And with the same criteria that is defense to all public workers. That is why, as soon as possible, this week or the coming week, or, like much, the first week of August, we will transfer the criminal defense that depends on the Interior Council, we will transfer it to the Central Judicial Cabinet, because we consider that it is from then on that it is possible to make a better defense of the public workers. And let's guarantee one more thing with this, let's make sure that they can, more than that, keep an eye out for the whole... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the Councillor of Interior and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.17.0	Time's up, counselor. To answer, Mr. Xavier Pellicer has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.18.0	Well, it seems to me that the withdrawal of competition from the Internal Judicial Office to make particular accusations is a first step in the compliment of the minimum agreement that we have achieved. The Judicial Office of the Interior believes that it has been corrected by the transmission of police corporate dynamics, driving the pursuit of mobilization and its existence seems to us to be an anomaly in all the rules. Let us consider, therefore, that this announcement is a first step in the right direction, both for what it does according to minimums, as for the need for the country, but we believe that it must be preceded urgently by more actions. We think that it's important to define the defence of the Interior Counsel's body, an extraordinary structure and that, as I said, we don't think it's right to be for what it does to private charges. The removal of private charges against demonstrators. End police files and identifications for ideological and aspectal reasons. And with the practices of recording, photographing systematically mobilizations. We also believe that it is essential to stop treating housing as a public problem and, therefore, to withdraw the participation of anti-evasive agents from the denunciations. In short, we think that a hundred-and-a-half-degree turn is needed in the policies of the Interior Department to advance towards a police model in the service of the people and in the defense of their rights. Let us hope that this is the case and that, like this announcement, in the very weeks ahead, we will only make progress in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.19.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the occupation of public space for activities not permitted by law. [[Ask the Government about the occupation of public space for activities not permitted by law]] [[310-00075/13]] The question is posed by Mr Matías Alonso, of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.20.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, are you aware that Catalonia has established, on the part of the competent public administrations, a permissiveness with the fraudulent and abusive occupation of public spaces? A permissiveness that we can even consider prevaricating?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.21.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.22.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, the truth is I can't share this opinion. There is no permissiveness on the part of the department, nor on the part of this government, nor on the part of Mossos d'Esquadra, of the public space with this intention that you manifest. We guarantee rights and freedoms, it's our obligation and that's what we do at all times.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.23.0	To answer the question, Mr. Matías Alonso has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.24.0	Miri, counselor, Catalonia has a prevaricating permissiveness, for example, with the 'top blanket'. An activity that seriously harms the interests of small businesses and traders, that pay their taxes and suffer the effects of fraud and the usurpation of mafias that market counterfeit products without any tax charge. That is to say, harm the industry and the legal trade and damage the collection of sums of sums and taxes from the Generality as well. And exploit the vulnerability of immigrants in an irregular situation. And this happens with the complacency, when not the connivance, of some officials of the local administrations and the Government of the Generality. A paradigmatic example can be found in the city of Barcelona, where the local community has generated policies that have had an impact on this illegal and fraudulent trade phenomenon. But there are many Catalan localities in which small traders see their activity adversely affected. And the public administrations responsible, the assemblies and above all, the Government of the Generality, look at them from the distance, without any strategy that avoids this illegal trade and does not fight effectively against fraud and exploitation of immigrants. It's a scandal that you're passing the Squad Squad Cushion to the local police that you wouldn't intervene against the top blanket and that you'd want to avoid any kind of conflict with them, because you didn't want to see 'obligated to intervene in situations of difficult conflict. Will they do it again? It is a scandal that the phenomenon of the « top manta campa with impunity in many indigences of Catalonia, not only in the city of Barcelona, may be the main focus, but also in Roses, where at this time there are more than six hundred kept exploited by the mafias of falsification and distributing falsified products. And what I'm saying to Roses is going to Sitges or Cambrils and a lot of other locations. One more time, the inaction of the Generality, through the Mosses, is clamorous. Counselor, fighting against fraud and exploitation of people in illegal activities and articulating political measures that prevent impunity from taking advantage of their inaction. And if you don't see it in color, fold.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.25.0	To answer, the word "Interior Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.26.0	Thank you, President. MP, look, it's just a reference to the "top manta and I want to start by saying that the top manta is not a fundamental public problem, but a social problem; it's a social problem for people who see immigration policy, for example, which restricts their rights..., and it's about this type of activity. And we can also talk about this and we don't have to talk about it in other areas. And you just in relation to this issue have policies that are right in the direction of keeping these people in an irregular situation that leads them to these situations. That said, he didn't inactivate it. With the Assembly of Barcelona, with the Assembly of Cambrils, with the Assembly of Sitges and with the Assembly of Roses we work together to avoid the « top layer and when you say, for example, that there has been permissiveness on the part of Mossos d'Esquadra and it is told to the local police that the Mossos d'Esquadra will not intervene is because, for example, as with the Assembly of Sitges, it has agreed in the sense that this task is done by the local police, and Mossos d'Esquadrammering assumes security in other questions. And it's the will and agreement of the local police, the assembly and the squad moss, because there is a coordination and joint action between the assembly and the local police and the police of Catalonia; naturally there is. Because the local police and the gatherings are the most appropriate entities in the city, and it is with them who must intervene. There are joint arrangements in multitude of questions and also in relation to top blanket. We will continue to coordinate with the joints, which is with whom the questions can best be resolved when it goes hand in hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.27.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the management of the five-year-old covid-19 pandemic. [[Ask the Government about the management of the five-onada of the covid-19 pandemic]] [[310-00076/13]] The question is posed by Mr Antonio Gallego, of the Parliamentary Group of VOX.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.28.0	How do you rate the management of the fifth wave of the pandemic?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.29.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.30.0	President, Members, Member... Deputy, in principle, this five-year-old, as we have already explained on some occasions, appears above all at the end of June with an explosion of frankly very high cases, which is due, above all, to a great social interaction that is produced after the completion of what is the academic course, all that these journeys are, around what is also Sant Joan. And from this perspective, we had, in fact, some estimates that were basically a summary that would tend more or less to a Rt of around 2 and that, with a 50-per-cent of the full vaccination or of the full vaccination pattern of the population, that, approximately by July 15th, we would have more or less of that summary already under your control and from this point of view we also found that these assumptions did not occur, as they did not occur in other places in Europe, and from this point of view we had R3 and R4 Rts and at these times we are already in a situation of downsizing and in a situation, hopefully, that we may soon return to normal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.31.0	In answer, has the word Mr. Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.32.0	Mr Argimon, are you not ashamed that Catalonia is on the contagion podium in Europe? Would they not call their management of the health crisis lethal and negligent? Do you not be blushed that you have authorized mass music festivals or mass acts of support for unsanitary beatings? Does it not seem unconscious to them to have sent continuous messages to the people saying that we were already leaving the tunnel? Do you find it honest to systematically criminalize young people to divert political responsibilities? Are you surprised that, according to the CEO, more than half of Catalans think that they are managing the pandemic in a harmful way? How could they not see that we were entering a fifth wave, Mr. Argimon? Obviously, all these are rhetorical questions. What is happening in Catalonia frankly has no name. They spent the whole year 2020 saying "Spain kills us." Its separatist comrades said daily that if the pandemic were managed from Catalonia, things would be much better. Well, you see. Now that they have almost all the skills, the result is that we are experiencing an explosion of unprecedented contagions in Europe and have already suffered a fifth wave. And this is not a VOX opinion. Oxford researcher Prieto-Alhambra said a few days ago: "The rate of contagion in Catalonia has not even been seen in the UK. Mr. Argimon, primary care, ICUs are on their way to immediate collapse. We still do not do massive and free tests, very few trackers, do not have private health, have not covered hospital care during the summer period and continue to send contradictory messages to the population. Mr. Argimon, someone has to tell you, either you're irresponsible or you're incompetent. Or both. Frankly, they've done things wrong. Their neglect costs lives and the ruin of many families. The tourist season has already gone to fry asparagus. And this doesn't work out with recognizing the mistakes on the radio as it did the other day. In a private company you'd already be on the street. Do yourself a favor and do it to the Catalans: resign.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.33.0	To answer that, there's the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.34.0	As I said, the fifth time in these moments is down. You also think that this is all over Europe... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, I'm sorry. No, I'm saying, as I said, the fifth time, in these moments we're wearing a week that we've reached the peak, we're down. We've actually had a very important influx and tension in the health system, and that's a recognizable thing, but I also have to say that this situation is not unique and exclusive from here, and it has also occurred with a variety that is also true that here, and we've also explained it, it's practically superior to eighty percent of infections or infections since more than three weeks ago, okay? That it's a situation similar to the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.35.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the vaccination campaign against covid-19. [[Ask the Government about the vaccination campaign against the covid-19]] [[310-00085/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Eva Parera of the Group of the Mixed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.36.0	Thank you very much. Good morning, all; good morning, counselor. I would like to ask you whether, at the time of the outbreak that forced restrictive measures another time and the obvious saturation of primary care and hospitals, you have valued this government's ability to incorporate private sanitation into the vaccination campaign that is ending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.37.0	To answer that, there's the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.38.0	President, MPs, MPs... MPs, from the iniquitous, we made a call to those people who would be in a position to immunize, phonatively personal infirmary. A cry that did not differentiate between public or private, whether the place of work was public, public or private, and did not distinguish whether it was from the hospital or primary care area. In this call 7,500 people answered, who are the ones who at these times, mostly, have renewed their commitment to continue with vaccination, for the different reasons that they can have, so it is the people who at these times are being vaccinated in the centers and, especially, in the centers of mass vaccination.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.39.0	To answer the question, you have the word "Madam Parera".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.40.0	Thank you, counselor, but I didn't just answer. What you're telling me is that what you're asking is that they're willing to go vaccination. I didn't ask him that; I asked him that: if this government is willing to incorporate private sanitation into the vaccination campaign. There are many private hospitals that are being offered, that are making a call to say they have staff available, but we do not have cows. We can vaccinate, but we don't have cows, because the government is refusing to introduce the private health system into the vaccination campaign, as it is doing with the flu. There's no sense that you can immunize the flu with your private health care system, but, on the other hand, you can't do it with a virus, plus, now you can do it with a much more aggressive variant, like covid-19. It doesn't seem logical. In fact, you did... the CatSalut said a little while ago, and I would say that this past dives, that by the day the ICUs would be collapsing. Today it has been announced that restrictive measures will have to be extended. In many European countries, private sanitation has been incorporated into vaccination, and they are the same countries that are advising not to travel to Catalonia for the risk of infection, because we are the region with higher numbers across Europe. So I don't understand or answer why they don't want to incorporate private sanitation into the vaccination campaign when what we need is more hands-on to the vaccination service so that we can start immunization and economic recovery in the country as soon as possible. But we're not vaccinating the strip from seven to thirty years because we're saturated; they tell us we should start vaccinating from seven down before we start school, so they'll tell me how to do it. What I think would be logical is to incorporate all possible human resources into sanitation, indistinctly whether it is public or private, so as to be able to immunize as soon as possible and decongest primary care, which is now absolutely collapsing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.41.0	To answer that, there's the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.42.0	Thank you. As I've said, in this cry it's absolutely ugly... it's not voluntary, is it? , simply what is available to work, and, therefore, remunerated, from the point of view, whether it is working in the private environment as public, to immunize. And today in vaccination centers there are people as long as they work in the public as private. Next. Everything that the private clinics and hospitals are, which obviously had a critical mass, a sufficient number of people, they had cows and vaccinated all their staff – all their staff, yes. And from this point of view also the vaccination strategy has been with massive vaccination centers, which are centers that you all see, from the Fira de Barcelona, the Fira de Cornellà, or the Farga, or the 11th of September pavilion in Lleida, where, I repeat, there are people working from both the public and private spheres. There's no way of discriminating in this sense. Also from another point of view, if I may, you have fallen into a small contradiction, that is to say, they say: "There are no cows. It's true, there are no cows. If we could, we'd vaccinate more. Not us, any European country. And from this point of view, we also need to remember that vaccination strategy is a centralized, centrally purchased strategy in Europe, which distributes to different countries by reason of population. Simply for this reason, and for this reason, if you look at the statistics of the different European countries, you see that a point up, a point down, everyone has practically the same vaccination coverage. From this point of view, we are now passing from having or having had 700,000 cows to now 350,000, and for this reason they also see, therefore, that vaccination has now a somewhat lower rate. It's simply because of that, not because of something else.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.43.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the fire-extinguishing tasks of the past few days. [[Ask the Government about the fire-extinguishing tasks of the past few days]] [[310-00082/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Anna Torrentà, of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.44.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor, deputies, deputies. I regret that my first intervention in this Parliament is to talk about the fire that this week's head has affected my region, the Alt Empordà. A region that for its orography and strong wind of tramuntana is likely to have recurring fires any year. In this sense, and before I say anything else, I would like to thank all the members of the Emergencies, Civil Protection, ADFs, mayors, mayors, pages and other volunteers, for the task they have taken during these past few days. It is nothing new that we find ourselves in climate emergency, and maintaining biodiversity and proper forest management in the territory are important actions and measures to combat this situation, just as the correct perimeter cleanness of the protective fringes is indispensable for the prevention and extinction of fires. As the mayor of a micro-population, which we normally have many extensions of land and few technical and human resources, we have the opportunity, like many other territories, to opt for different lines of help that offer disputations and local councils to make good planning, supervision and maintenance of protective fringes, and I hope that this is complete. In fact, at the fire of last week's head it became clear that a proper execution of the protection strip, as is the case of Port of the Jungle, facilitated the work to the emergency service and is truly effective. Experts say that we are ahead of a very dry and warm state, so we must be careful. And we have the duty and obligation to take care of our surroundings, a cure and responsibility that the Government of the State did not have when it did not authorize the incorporation of French hydroplanes into the fire-extinguishing tasks, prioritizing the flag to speed and effectiveness. We, Councillor Elena, would like to ask you about the measures that have been implemented to prevent the spread of the Llançà fire, the Port of the Jungle, the Selva de Mar and the Cap de Creus National Park, and we are forced to ask you about the explanations given to you by the Government of the State to justify their irresponsibility during the emergency despite the express request of the Government of the Generality to use the French air resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.45.0	To answer the word, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.46.0	President... Member, we are patenting the experts' three thirty, eh? , more than thirty..., degrees, wind and humidity, and that's what Congresswoman Picas knows – so it's an alarm situation. And we're still in a situation of risk, of extreme risk. And that's why I have to start by writing to the prudence, to the prudence and to the self-containment of all the citizens, to avoid what has happened in this last decade, that thirty-three percent of the fires, of the cremated hectares, have been because of a burilla pulled through the window or a burilla pulled as a walk, an extreme irresponsibility. It is also obliged to make a grace, a grace to the Rural Agents Cos, for the work they do throughout the year. Also has the ADFs. Indeed, the protective fringes have been decisive because this fire does not end up feeling a greater tragedy. As was also the magnificent work of Bombers – more than eighty equipments, more than twenty midairs; also, firefighters, two hundred –; an extraordinary work, with an extraordinary risk and which is also to aggravate. Or Civil Protection, with a day-to-day job, and also ensuring, therefore, that more than three hundred people were dislocated. Or the Català Servei de Trànsit, guaranteeing efficiency. And so is Squad moss, with all the work they've done. I from the sea of volunteers. And of the joints, very particularly, and the local police. It is true that there was a problem: the bureaucracy – I would describe it that way –; the bureaucracy has prevented us from being more effective at the concrete moment of the fire, which I think was missing. We put ourselves this week in contact with the ministry to talk about it. We believe that this must not happen again, that there must be more coordination. And in this sense we'll get to work with Civil Protection, both here and in the ministry, because this situation, which is not acceptable, does not happen again. And at the end we are here to solve problems, which at the end of this was politics. And in this sense, therefore, we will work because this situation has not returned to production. Thank you to all the public servers for the work they've done. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.47.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the special plans for the external emergence of the chemical sector. [[Ask the Government about the special external emergence plans of the chemical sector]] [[310-00083/13]] The question is posed by Mr Carles Castillo, of the Grup Parlamentari d'Esquerra Republicana.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.48.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Mr. Conseller General of the past year has held the place in Tarragona the hardest accident that has occurred at the petrochemical polygon, with three dead and the risk of an even greater catastrophe. We represent the same party, counselor, but you, who know me, fully understand that I am telling a territory, and this territory is very, very concerned: for the Tarragona people and for the whole Tarragona Camp, there is a before and after this accident. This Parliament is not aware, and the study committee of the past year has concluded with all these concerns and with a follow-up of proposals for better security. On the day of the accident, part of the population felt helpless and without clear instructions. Many cases of some of the most humble and hardworking people's barrels find themselves so much touching the polygon, counselor, that they can perfectly see the workers and workers of the window-to-window chemical companies. Many of them would break the windows for the expansive wave and they would be months without fixing them. Today, a lot of people say they still don't know what they should do. Vein entities, associations and institutions complained that Plaseqcat, from all over Catalonia, was not well attuned to the needs of the territory and that decisions were to be taken more closely. So they told the committee: problems with the sirens' activation, instructions contradictory to the affected population, and a first moment that it was not known how to react before the risk of a hypothetical new toxin, which thanks to God was not materialized, because it could have affected many people in a densely populated area. We are aware that zero risk does not exist. And we want chemical companies to invest in our territory, but not at the cost of security. We know that the new government of the Generality is laying the piles very quickly, and that an important meeting has already taken place with all the mayors and mayors concerned and they have gone through some actions. All the moves, counselor, are very much appreciated, but unfortunately we're still worried. You understand that after what happened, we need to ensure that the Generality has a strong reaction. Citizenship has concentrated and manifested itself to demand information and security, and the veins and veins want to regain the confidence that has been lost after the unfortunate and dangerous accident, that has changed even the whole way of analysing the possible effects of chemical accidents throughout Europe, for the piece that has arrived all the way out of the polygon, causing the death of a visit to their home. What news is there in the area of Plaseqta? Who are the priorities set by the Interior Department, counselor, on this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.49.0	To answer, the word "Interior Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.50.0	President... I really want to start by saying that Plaseqta is a priority of this department and a priority of this government. And it's for all the reasons you've put forward. The other day, we had a meeting with all the parties involved, from the companies to the joint ventures... in other words, all the parties involved, to explain what we are doing. And I'd like to explain some of the questions. In the first place, the operating structures have already been created, linked directly to the territory, because it seems to us that it is the place where they correspond. We already have the technical committee, so does the councillor. We have also begun work of awareness and explanation to the assembly of the citizenry, which is what everyone has to do at the time when it is produced – let us hope that never – a circumstance of the same natural, from the institutes, to the young, to other crisis tables and the conjunction of the ages, to explain to them what it is doing. And training, training all actors, all those who intervene in different gatherings. And also, necessarily, investments; it is to say, to put resources and mediums to it. In this sense, we communicated, therefore, that, of the six sirens that Plaseqta expected to install itself, the idea is to install it, not only if, because it was valued, and it is a living plate; it was appreciated that it has to be increased. At these times, there are no more than three talks, and in the bidding process five more, because it seems to us that it is a determining element and that gives a lot of tranquility to the citizen, as well as the sensors. In this sense, there is a pilot plan to place sensors in the south area to detect the chlorine toxic clouds and also thirty-three, on the north side, also to detect the sulphides and other toxic elements that can be generated. The truth is that the meeting went very well; it was very well-kept, it calmed down. I understand, because then I had the opportunity to talk to all the parliamentary groups or some parliamentary groups about how the meeting went. And we also acquired a compromise, which seems to us to be necessary in these cases, and it is necessary to go there every year, to pass accounts, to reassemble all of us – we also incorporate trade unions – to pass accounts of what has been done every year and how things are and to collect concerns and give out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.51.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in the plenary on consumer rights. [[Ask the Government about consumer rights]] [[310-00084/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Lluïsa Llop of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.52.0	Thank you, President. President, vice presidents, advisors, advisors, deputies, deputies, very good day to everyone. Counselor Torrent, consumers are often in an unequal relationship before the providers of goods and services; sometimes because of a lack of knowledge of our rights at the time of consumption, others because we find ourselves, especially in the fields of big companies, before a lack of offer that leads us to very conditioned and very captive elections. These circumstances, moreover, have been exacerbated by the emergency situation brought by covid-19, affecting our rights as consumers and changing essential things such as, for example, an increase in digitization in all areas of our daily lives, also in our areas of consumption. In view of this fact, on the part of the Administration, the encouragement of consumer rights policies, rights that republicans and republicans understand as the essential protection of citizens against large oligopolises and businesses that are often sub-ministering services and absolutely basic benefits. The rights of consumers and consumers are not a..., not as an extension of the market, but as a guarantee of protection before the domination of the markets; a philosophy that we see reflected in the new stage that you yourself expounded, Counsellor Torrent, a few days ago to the presentation of the campaign« A pro tue, a new orientation, as said, of the Catalan Agency of Consumer Affairs, which represents an ambitious sack of consumer policies, taking on indispensable challenges that bet for responsible consumption and for the protection of the most disadvantaged collectivities. Counselor, we don't understand... we're not talking about a new Republican Generality just because it's the head of a Republican left president for the first time since the institution's recovery, just because we understand that the new government has to deploy a Republican policy ambition program to sack the country. And, from these republican policies, there must be no doubt about consumer protection. For this reason, Conseller Torrent, we want to know which reptes identifies, we want to know which actions will prioritize to move from a liberal conception of consumption, the one that only sees the city as a recipient of goods and services, to a republican conception, committed to guaranteeing the rights of citizenship as consumers, guaranteeing it access to the goods and basic services and empowering them to push...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.53.0	He's out of words. [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]] To answer the word, Mr. Roger Torrent, Business and Work Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.54.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Indeed, you said that the new situation, the new reality that has touched our lives, the result of the pandemic, has generated more demands for consumption, more complaints. Actually, huh? Last year we increased by a sixty-set_per_cent the complaints to Consumer derived, effectively, from the situation of covid, and also very directed to complaints around the air transport. Now we have to see if this situation is conjunctural or structural, huh? I would say that there is a contingent of these complaints that have come to stay, unfortunately, because it is up to us to live this new reality, which has many aspects, many dimensions and which will also affect consumption. Therefore, our willingness here, obviously, as it cannot otherwise be, is to defend the rights of consumers. The perimeter of citizens' and citizens' rights as consumers must be the central element of the department's pocket, specifically the Consum Agency. But not only, because, in this optical, in this republical spirit to which you used to call it, there is also another dimension that we must take very much into account, which is consumption as a tool of social transformation too, huh? , generator of a different social_mark. From this perspective, we also have to work with the Catalan Consumer Agency, to which last week we presented the fundamental axes, not only the campaign, but also those elements which will put the action of the agency at this new political stage, and which are basically the defence of consumers, especially the most vulnerable, in the field of housing, of basic services, of financial products; also the claim that each time more conflicts are resolved in the extra-judicial mechanisms, especially in the field of communications, the services of the light, of gas, of water, which concentrate most of the conflict; but at the same time that we want to give the consumer's knowledge. And, finally, what we want is to encourage responsible consumption, the culture of responsible consumption, in line with what I gave before social transformation towards sustainability or corporate social responsibility. In short, what we want, of course, is to empower consumers, empower citizens in their interaction on the market so that they are not submissive to dominant positions, to overwhelming positions. Thank you very much, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.55.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on measures to maintain education as a safe space. [[Ask the Government about the measures to maintain education as safe space]] [[310-00078/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Anna Feliu, Member of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.56.0	Thank you, very honorable President. Honourable Councillor, we have been notified of four thousand educational activities in Catalonia, in which more than 208,000 children and young people from the country participate, including summer couples, colonies, camps, routes or work camps; they give an idea of the importance of the education sector in our country, which includes names of entities that organize various activities with monitors and young monitors with vocations and illusions in order to make the estes unforgettable, full of experiences for our children, to which the states organized by the Directorate-General for Youth also sum up with yours, with a wide range of offerings, as well as with music. Lleure, play and rest is a right for infants, essential for their development – this mask... [[the speaker laughs]] – Right that reverses the conviction, also of the United Nations, about the rights of the infant, right that can also be guaranteed in these moments of pandemic. In this sense, counsel, congratulate you and the department that you preside over for having planned and put into operation concrete measures, in coordination with the Department of Health, to be able to give tools to the sector of the lleure, as are now specialized trainings for monitors and managers of lleure, specific protocols of performance, cracks to the professionals, among others that have driven the last few days. That's why I ask you, Counselor, what nine steps are being taken to maintain your education as a safe space?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.57.0	To answer, has the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", social rights advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.58.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... MPs, in the first place, allow you to thank all professionals who at these times are working for the reading, effectively, as you said, to be a safe space for all our infants. Give a very special thanks to all the entities, to the workers, to the public workers, to the Directorate General, to the Directorate General of Youth, to the pharmacies, to the Health Department for its involvement because this holiday, therefore, is a holiday as safe as possible. Secondly, as you know and as we all know, the pandemic is here, yet it has not gone away and we want it, as you said, that all children in Catalonia can enjoy their right to participate in states of law, but do so in a safe way. For this reason, we are working together with the Health Department and also with entities to make this possible. And to do so, we've established a few measures. First of all, the entities know, and the professionals know, that they must extremate the security measures between all the states and the summer couples, measures that we already know, like the use of the mask, the distances and the relevant cleanness of all the teams. But, second of all, what we've been doing is cribrating policies for the professionals. In the first place, the faiths..., there were some 781 professionals in six places throughout Catalonia – Lleida, Tarragona, Girona, Manresa, two points to the Lands of the Ebro – and later already through..., just yesterday also began policies of cribring through the pharmacies to all the professionals and, moreover, in a free way. We have also started with vaccination policies for the professionals of the university who during this week can..., the professionals can go to the health services to be able to immunize, because our goal, as we say, is to work together not only with the Health Department, with which the binomial, therefore, has been perfect but, more than that, to work with all the entities to ensure that these states and this education that all our infants need remain secure throughout Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.59.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the better qualification of the generality's debt. [[Ask the Government about the better qualification of the generality's debt]] [[310-00079/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Elsa Artadi, Member of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.60.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Counselor. The morning of diving to dissipate we knew the good news, that the international agency Fitch improved the qualification of the Catalan debt. A bid that made..., up to two slagons the qualification of the good emotions for the Government of the Generality and that placed them until the triple B negative; a qualification that, in fact, we did not have since 2012. New years after this important impact of the global debt crisis, we came back to have a qualification in our good ones, the qualification of ‘good investor', which allows and what it means to be able to get out in the debt markets. We'd like to congratulate you. We know there's been a lot of work with the qualification agencies. We know that there has been an issue on the part of Fitch, analysts, executives, to know the situation of the finances of the Generality and to be able to assess them first hand. We agree that this is good news, that it is good news because it allows us to have more instruments financed in the Government of the Generalita with this possible release on the markets. It is good news, because it reflects the trust not only of the markets but also of the investors in our country and why it will also eventually allow us to get out of the FLA, to get out of the funds, in which we carry more than 2,700_million euros in interest. And why, too, the release of these financial instruments, therefore, will also allow us to free ourselves from some of the financial interventions that we still suffer from by part of the Spanish State. In addition to the qualification agencies, we have focused on the dependence we have on the Government of the State, the uncertainty we have about when resources arrive and, therefore, with a clear manifestation that the fiscal deficit that we suffer is still a social deficit; a social deficit that also limits our progress and our welfare, so much so that there is denial and that the Spanish Government continues to see it. What also seems very important to us is the mention made by the Fitch agency of import, not only of the ability to structure the generality's debt and put finances in order, but also of diversification, diversification of economic activity, industry as a tractor of the Catalan economy and this recognition of the pea and family business. We want to ask you, counselor, your appreciation for this good news.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.61.0	To answer, has the word Jaume Giró, Conseller d'Economia i Hisenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.62.0	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Mrs Artadi. Actually, that's good news. It's been good news, but as time runs so fast, today we have another news even better. First of all, I will answer briefly your question. Indeed, it was very good news this week and I have to say that I was surprised that even some outside media and some of our home tried to match this news – as it always happens with the good news that affects the country, even though it has nothing to do with the process – barring it with fears of indults and of things that are purely in the first paragraph, and to all the seven pages of the key rating drivers, they certainly did not pay attention and did not see, therefore, what meant by confidence in the economy, in the country's strengths and in this government and in the measures that we will take. But, as I said, as life goes so fast, there is another better news, which I also take advantage of to comment. You are sure that you have read – and some have listened – the press wheel that I did yesterday and that, at a given moment, therefore for prudence and to protect all the people of the Catalan Institute of Finance, I asked you not to use the additional provision, which is in the decree, with law rank, to provide for the coverage of the supplementary risk fund in order to be able to cover these contingencies. Well, the truth is that my words yesterday of something served – plus, therefore, to excite all sorts of people – and they served because you've been calling back these last hours of people from the Catalan Institute of Finance who asked me, please, that for them I don't stay and that we try to use this additional arrangement as foreseen in the law. And so, that's what we're gonna do. [[applause]] - That's what we're gonna do. This morning I called President Aragonès; we were talking about it, and he seemed very good, and therefore this is the measure we will use. With a generosity, which I want to highlight, of all the people of the Catalan Institute of Finance and also with the prudence, therefore, that recommends the experience. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.63.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in the plenary on cases of digital espionage. [[Ask the Government about digital espionage cases]] [[310-00080/13]] The question is posed by Ms. Mònica Sales, from the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.64.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice-President Puigneró, unfortunately, these last few days have shown us cases of digital espionage in the media, a very difficult issue to address and to explain, because it can affect us all. To refer to this technology of intrusion we refer to July 2020, just a year ago, when the news related to the programmer Pegasus, who had been spying on the high offices of the Generality and this very Parliament, to whom we once again repeat our support for Catalonia, came out of the light. This permanent digital surveillance practice has gone out all over the world, and different states are in the spotlight in the use of this type of program for activities that are not the usual. The gravity of the facts is unquestionable, especially if we take into account that these are only to be used because the security forces fight terrorism or investigate alleged very heavy crimes. There remains, therefore, the objective of pursuing activists, politicians or personalities who have nothing to do with these cases of extreme gravity. However, if we do not have enough, the adoption of the digital decree by the Spanish Government, which is the most progressive in history, can also prevent against the fundamental rights of the citizenry because it empowers the State, in theory, to intervene in digital communications in exceptional cases that may affect public order, public security or national security. That no one is going through this issue, because intervention can take a long time without the relevant court order, and therefore these practices may violate the privacy and individual rights of the citizenry even at the most intimate moments. These tools allow for intrusion into the lives of people you consider enemies and spy on all levels. From Junts to Catalunya, Vice President, we are aware that the Generality, in its moment, has already set in motion the Agency of Cybersecurity of Catalonia as a carrier of escarpments and rivers of which they always mock the leading Catalan technology; an agency that executes public policies of protection in the matter of cybersecurity to our country. For all this, we would like to ask him what the capture is about the latest information on digital espionage and whose actions are due to the end of his department to deal with these threats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.65.0	To answer, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.66.0	Thank you very much, President. Congresswoman Sales, Miri, years ago I've been trying to warn you that the new fundamental rights..., the battle for the defense of the new fundamental rights is playing on the internet. And here we'll pass all the elbow test, huh? Here, obviously, we will all be tested, and we must be very aware that no one here can fail – no one has failed. Play us, huh? In this sense, in this new digital age, which must mean our political freedom as much as our expression of the fundamental rights of today in the network. Miri, in Catalonia, a few years ago, I already skate this digital beauty by third parties. I want to remember the cyberattack of 9 November, now seven years ago: he was qualified as one of the most important cyberattacks of that year in the world. And that's why we put a cybersecurity agency on the market, to protect digital actions, to protect our rights precisely. I, in fact, the Constitutional Court, despite being called upon to do so, has given us the reason. We have the right to cyberprotect ourselves. I'm also saying this because this is a debate that... well, just ask me all the time together for Catalonia, huh? And I think this should be a debate that should be of concern to other groups of this chamber. They don't seem to care. They worry a lot, for example, when Google, don't they? You're using data to do business, aren't you? With our personal data, and we have to take care of this, but we should be more concerned about practices than we know today that there are on the side of these types of programs that, in this sense, put our country's political freedom at risk. And I'm obviously referring to left-wing parties that are now governing other institutions. They didn't just repeal the law, but they've digitally expanded it, and more so, they're now announcing a law of national security that, finally, for what we've seen in their writing, it's for, uh? I, therefore, should take note. I think that we are at a time of impas, at a very important time when the decisions we make will be decisive in this sense. And, therefore, we would ask, in this sense, parties like the common ones and We can that... – I have already made reference to them more than once in this hemisphere –, escort, we can find ourselves, that, in the end, in a few years, this famous Pegasus program does not follow Pegasus but follows "Pedrassus". [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.67.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the local world. [[Ask the Government about the local world]] [[310-00072/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Marta Moreta, Member of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.68.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, with the presuppositional prorogation we lose the opportunity to fight the pandemic and lay the groundwork for reactivating the economy and social cohesion. That is why, from my parliamentary group, we called for the approval of certain assumptions urgently, because Catalonia needs exceptional accounts for a moment of exceptional history. To cope with this recovery, for example, the Valencian Community, under its local administration assumptions, has increased the game in a twenty-i-u_per_cent. You've decided today with the presuppositional prorogation to scan even more of the locals, and an example of that, counsel, is the Local Cooperation Fund, which has gone down in the last two years. In fact, it went from 156_millions the year 2010 to 129_millions of the present; that is, a disset_per_cent less, to see with the Valencian Community. In fact, of the 129_millions, 41_millions have been allocated to the regional councils, the Aran and the decentralized entities, but only 55_millions of the 86_millions planned for the joints have been allocated. And still in Barcelona's Metropolitan Area. Could you explain to us the reason why the totality of these funds has not been recorded? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.69.0	To answer, has the word Laura Vilagrà, adviser of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.70.0	Yeah. Thank you, President. Madam Member, yes, indeed, we know the dues we have to the local world, in fact, we like to explain that we are a municipalist government, many of the councillors, councillors, president, we come from the municipal world: mayor, directors, or we have given support. Therefore, we are very aware of the economic situation, financed in what it is found. We've been up to date with the debts we had with the local world. And, actually, we'll finish doing it in the next few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.71.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Moreta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.72.0	Miri, the co-operation fund was out of date for the pandemic, and for this reason, the government decided to make an extra EUR 120_million, of which EUR 20_million was to be paid for 2020. And, actually, that's what he did. The remaining 100_millions are distributed in two payments: 50_millions in the first quarter of 2021 and 50_millions in the following months of this year. But you have not completed this compromise either, and the assemblies have not seen a single euro of this 100_million euros. How should the economic recovery of the municipalities be encouraged if they do not have the resources or the necessary tools and your obligations are not fulfilled? Miri, will advise, will come 5,000_million euros from the State. Why don't they bet on municipalism? They're as brave as they are in the Valencia Country, they're getting together, because mayors and mayors can't wait any longer. When do you plan to pay the 100_million euros? Do you think of making an extraordinary 300_million game as claimed by municipalist entities? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.73.0	To answer, the speaker of the Presidency has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.74.0	Miri, we have very clear who our priorities are. Obviously, we... our priority is working with the local world. In fact, this week we have met with the Federation of Municipalities, with the Association of Municipalities, with the Association of Micropopulations, and we have laid the groundwork for what this legislature will be like. What we want is to have the city visit to all public policies, we will. We know that the economic issue is very important together; I have been mayor, and therefore I know it perfectly well. It is also true that the State often does not complete with Catalonia, with the Romans we have to apply. So, in this sense, if this happens, then we will have much more capacity to move to the municipal world, so, all the resources that you obviously have on the table..., you have to have all the public policies for the long run. In this sense, this week we have spoken with municipal associations on many other issues, too. And, of course, we'll complete everything they claim. In fact, we talked about the foundation of cooperation, but we also talked about social policies, and therefore about the possibility, therefore, of the new social service programme contract. Let's talk about poor energy. Let's talk about the money that has to come for the children's home, from zero to three years. We also talked about the vital minimum income, which must certainly be passed on to us; they know that it is due that the Spanish State still has with Catalonia, because what we want is for guaranteed income to have much more resources to address housing policies or policies against the poor child. And that's what the State has to do with Catalonia, it has these rights. For another band, we also talked about reindustrialization. With the small municipalities, with the Association of Micropopulations, we have been addressing the issue of depopulation, and, if we say so, the question of how to rebalance Catalonia territorially from a population point of view, that everyone has had opportunities to be born when he was born, and, therefore, even though we are talking about municipalities of less than five hundred inhabitants, therefore, they have all the possibilities. We were also talking about local cops. And, above all, this week we've talked a lot about the pandemic with the municipalities and we've given them the measures to implement in these very weeks. And in this sense, therefore, very proud of the work that we have been able to establish, of these foundations with the municipal world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.75.0	He asked the Government to respond orally to the plenary on industrial policy. [[Ask the Government about industrial policy]] [[310-00073/13]] The question is posed by Mr Óscar Ordeig of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.76.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor Torrent. One thing: we think it's good news that the new call was made and that the government has rectified so that the companies that were left out of the covid help can join this time, as the sector demanded and as the opposition groups demanded. Our question is about the automotive sector in Catalonia; according to the sector of the economy, importantissim, deu_per_cent of GDP, deu_mil entrepreneurs, 143,000 workers, 23,000_milions in billing; Catalonia, the first community in the production of vehicles of the State. A few days ago, in addition, the Council of Ministers approved the loss of the electric vehicle and connectivity – important for joining the European fund – with an investment of 24,000_million euros between public funds, private funds, to advance towards reindustrialisation. Perilously, Catalonia is sleeping more and more in France, which only has a doze_per_cent of the industry's GDP, and less in Germany, which has the twenty-i-five_per_cent. It is necessary to complete the European Green Pact and the ecological transition so as to adapt us also to the requirements of the European Union that 2035 cannot sell fuel cars. Counselor, what does the government have in mind to encourage the production of the electric car in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.77.0	To answer, the word "Consulter d'Empresa i Treball" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.78.0	Thank you, President. Since the deputy did a previa, I'm trying to kill him, say so, huh? You said the cheer we've rectified the decisions, huh? , respect the Royal Decree 5/2021; what we have done is to correct the nyap that the Spanish Government did, what we have done is to solve the problems that the Spanish Government had created for us with draconian demands, difficult to implement and that do not come into contact with the country's economy. We've made it better. And we agreed with social and economic agents. The first call and this second call, which will arrive at the conjunction of the CNAEs; therefore, at the conjunction of the enterprises and autonomes of the country that I needed. That's from the entrance. Then, respect the automotive sector. I won't repeat the data again. Certainly, the importance of the sector in the industrial field and in the context of the Catalan economy is well known. And, indeed, now we have an opportunity. The European foundations – the Next Generation – are the lever of real change, the contributions, the resources needed to transform a sector that needs it. Now, because they are effective, to maximize the potential of European foundations, which is decentralised, co-participated governance, and that we also have the capacity..., not because we want to take part in the decision-making power respect these foundations, but because we know the business reality of the country and the need for money to vacate truly transformative projects and reach the country's tops. The one-sided and centralized presentation of the car loss is a very bad symptom of where the Spanish government goes in this sense.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.79.0	To answer, has the word Lord Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.80.0	Yeah. Thank you. Counselor, it could and can, and so they have shown. Therefore, listen, we only ask that we are for work; for the work of an opportunity that is historical. And we don't think we're doing well, because we're late; it makes us feel like we're towing events. Some examples: seventy_per_cent of retail in the industrial policy assumptions or planted to the presidents of SEAT and Volkswagen when they come to present the electric car. We need to stop industrial destruction – I think this should be asked by all of us –; lead high-level contacts in Catalonia; reflections from the sector in Catalonia; attracting the investments needed to manufacture the electric car in Catalonia. And, therefore, we ask you, counselor, that the government make the loss of the electric vehicle to Catalonia and of all the industry and associated technology, which is very much. We are losing leadership in renewable energies, we can also lose it in the electric vehicle. European funds, as we said, and great political and sectoral agreement to lead this transformation, not just for the electric car, but for the charging points, hydrogen batteries, professional training of Martorell or Circuit de Catalunya. Obviously, too, great infrastructures that these days we also have debates and that are essential. Counselor, we ask for leadership, clear ideas, go from words to facts to stop the industrial destruction of Catalonia and so..., and that's all we'll get with the loss of... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.81.0	To answer, the word "Consulter d'Empresa i Treball" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.82.0	Member, let us make the loss of the automobile of Catalonia understand that you mean that you are in favour of us managing the loss and therefore the resources, which are European, which are not of the Spanish State, but are resources of the joint European institutions. In any case, there is a phonetic tool that is the national pact for industry, which we have already announced that we are putting ourselves to work this very month, and that it must be essential to vertebrate the country's reindustrialisation policies, including the automotive sector. We want it to be a national pact for the industry agreed, dialogued, consensual with economic and social agents, also at the political level, and to have truly transformative proposals with associated assumptions and helping to make this change to the industry... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the Business and Work advisor this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.83.0	Time's up, counselor. [[Pause.]] [[Ask the Government about the situation of residences for large people]] [[310-00077/13]] He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the situation of residences for large people. The question is posed by Mrs Jessica González of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.84.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention were not recorded.]] ...so, it's not just about residences, we need to talk about aging, we need to talk about a system of cures that articulates home care and community resources where more is promoting personal autonomy and residences as a last option. But, counsel, we'd like to know who the new model is, the layout for the new model of large people's residences.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.85.0	To answer, has the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", social rights advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.86.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs..., MP, in fact, in my appearance I have already mentioned that one of the objectives of our department is to work in this new model of personal autonomy, which, as you say, has to infer, therefore, these premises: that people can wrap home properly and perfectly, with all the needy covered, and that when they wrap up they can wrap up properly also in the residences. And, in fact, I asked the parliamentary groups to enter, therefore, the possibility of making a working group in the Parliament of Catalonia to discuss all these questions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.87.0	To answer the question, has the word Ms. Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.88.0	He will advise, this..., in fact, the proposal that he made to the social health agency to coordinate the health services with the residential ones, seems to me a good step, and the working group also, but as we intend to set up a new model when there is still no record keeping and evaluation of what has happened and that he helps us to lay the foundations for a new model, when we still have cases of bad tax that are open, when there are still families with whom they have not spoken and when we have workers with frozen soul more than two years ago and, above all, when they try to claim their labor exploitation and change the situation of the businesses they are affected by the complicity and silence of the Generalitat? What do we do with all this? We can't make a blur and a new account. And if the residential model is obsolete, it will advise, it is precisely for policies that you govern many years ago you did and did not have the ability to reverse. And here there was a lack of responsibility and, above all, a sepulchre silence with families. We speak not only of management, but of rights: of the rights of the great people living in residence to have a dignified attention, of the right to the families to repair and to the clarification of the truth through the investigation into the detail of what went on with their family members, and of the rights of the workers, who were in the first line trying to sustain life, with labor exploitation, with lack of protocols, with lack of tools and guidelines, therefore, they owe to us, too. We are, she advises, in the fifties and begin to have another round and cases in geriatrics. And maybe it's time to take action, learn lessons and, ultimately, take specific actions that help us not get through this again. And for all this, from Comú we can ask from the hand of the move of residences of Catalonia to constitute another occasion the commission of investigation that we have committed all the parliamentary groups with unanimity to continue in this legislature, since it did not achieve its objectives. And let's wait, Counselor, to count on your commitment. And we wait and trust that we will count with all the necessary votes and that it does not pass as in Madrid, where the extreme right has prevented the investigation of what happened to the residences.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.89.0	To answer, the social rights advisor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.90.0	Thank you very much, President. I suppose you're out of line, that I just asked a question that I can't answer at these times in less than two minutes. That's why I offered myself from the very first moment, and also to appear, to work together with all the parliamentary groups to be able to push forward the policies that our citizens deserve, and especially the most vulnerable citizens. My word goes on and on, and so the place, in this working group, to be able to debate what should be the new model of personal autonomy. As you said – and this is a topic that we are working together with the Health Department – we are working in the Integrated Health and Health Agency, which must allow us to work together with the two departments to avoid what happened in the first wave of the pandemic, in which effectively the residencies were the most punished for the virus, which entered the residencies. Fortunately, the measures taken jointly with the Department of Health, previously with the Department of Work and now with the Department of Social Rights, we are avoiding that..., even though the pandemic is coming and entering the residences, this is done with less force. Hence, from here on, what I want is to deeply aggravate all professionals, both of the health services and the resident professionals, the ingenious pocket they made, so in the first wave and the ingenious pocket they are making at these times to prevent the pandemic from returning to one of the most vulnerable population groups in our country. With regard to the Committee of Inquiry, this advisory board will not be able to find at any time..., it will not be against the parliamentary debates that can be made in the Parliament of Catalonia, whenever these debates are built to help improve the tasks and jobs that may not have been properly done at these times or that can be improved, but in case of criminalising a sector that, as you know, has been severely affected by this pandemic. Therefore, at your disposal, whether in politics or in parliamentary debates, to resolve these... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the Social Rights Adviser and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.91.0	Time's up, Counselor. Thank you. Let's start the questions to the President of the Generality. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the conflict between the governments of Catalonia and Aragó in relation to the Winter Olympics]] [[317-00048/13]] He asked the President of the General Council to reply orally to the plenary on the current political situation. The question is posed by Mr Alejandro Fernández, of the Grup Mixt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.92.0	Thank you, President. In recent days there has been a conflict between the governments of Catalonia and Aragon on account of the Olympic Winter Games. I'd like to know your position on that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.93.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.94.0	Thank you, President. For my part, there is no conflict with the government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.95.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.96.0	Thank you, President. In the last plenary we approved a motion to support the candidacy of the Winter Games, with the vote against its members of the CUP and also that of its future partners, the common ones, breaking the indispensable institutional unity that requires a project of this nature. It had to be us, among others, but also us, who put a minimum of institutional responsibility in support of the measure. For a moment, it even seemed that you had returned from Matrix and that you were pushing the candidacy before the Spanish Olympic Committee, as it should be, and with realism, also cooperating with the Aragonese, as it should be. But I'm afraid it was too nice to be true, and a few days later they would go back to you. Was it really so hard to call the president of Aragon and agree on a shared name? Are they really not able to do anything other than encourage conflict and touch everyone's noses from their infinite prepotence? Don't you realize that the Aragonese are not foreigners, Mr. Aragonès? Have you been in Salou or Cambrils and so many Catalan populations to check? Was it necessary to disrespect the Aragonese in this matter? In short, whether on account of the Olympic Winter Games or of the unfortunate fires suffered in recent days, you alone know how to stir up low passions and hatred among brotherly peoples. Aren't you ashamed, Mr. Aragonès? Aren't you ashamed, too, Mrs. Laura Borràs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.97.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.98.0	Well, I think you need a vacation, Congressman. [[Rialles.]] His level of humor playing with his last name today is not worthy of his level of humorism and speech of this Parliament. In any case, apart from that, you say that I am causing a conflict with the Government of Aragó for requesting the Spanish Olympic Committee to initiate talks about the name of the candidacy... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? From an application for the Winter 2030 Olympic Games, « Barcelona-Pirineus candidacy. It's about what the conflict has been about these last few days; that I've seen in the press – that I've seen in the press. And you came here to tell me that thanks to you, you approved a motion to Parliament with your vote in favor of unlocking this. What was that young man saying? What was the name of the candidacy that was in that young man? "Barcelona-Pirineus 2030. And, therefore, it is what I have carried out, complementing the mandate of this Parliament. Obviously, introducing elements that are important to me. The Middle Environmental Balance: We cannot have a model of Olympic Games as it had been in the past, and the International Olympic Committee has the will that the future Winter Olympic Games, where they are, have an absolutely sustainable model and that avoids all sorts of urban speculation. And that fits our project. Secondly: talking to the territory, and therefore here will have to work a territorial consensus to frame it, obviously, all folded into which it must be a strategy«Pyreneus 2030. It is not a matter of only fifteen days during a certain year, but of a whole process, a whole programme, a whole territorial development plan to facilitate the territorial balance of our country. Therefore, you accuse me of having provoked a conflict to compliment a Member who voted in favour of this Parliament. Definitely, he needs a vacation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.99.0	He asked the President of the General Council to reply orally to the plenary on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the cleanness of the margins of the reels in the area where there was the fire of the Cape of Creus]] [[317-00041/13]] The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.100.0	Mr President, there have been several fires this summer that have been suffocated by emergency services, volunteers, firefighters and the armed forces, whom we thank for your efforts. And in particular, the Creus cap fire was due to the reckless conduct of a person who threw a colilla, but perhaps it would not have been as serious if the margins of the roads had had the proper cleaning. President, given the results, are you satisfied with the cleaning work of the area carried out by the Generalitat this winter?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.101.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.102.0	Yes, because precisely the net of margins – and if you want more information, you can talk to the Cap de Creus Natural Park –... the net of margins, precisely, and of all the perimeter fringes, is what has allowed the fire to remain in four hundred hectares and not in two thousand, which was one of the most catastrophic predictions given to us by the Bomber Cos when the fire started. Therefore, yes, we are satisfied and we must do so much more.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.103.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.104.0	I see, Mr President, that the self-criticism is not the..., let's say, tonic of your government. It's always Spain's fault. You did it perfectly and thanks to your triumphalist statements we know that less evil than two thousand hectares and only four hundred were burned. Look, we're not gonna blame them for the fire, but we do ask them to take on their competitive responsibilities. It is their responsibility to keep the forests properly preserved so that these disasters do not exist. The Director-General of Fire Prevention, in the question of the deputy of the Republican Left to the Councillor of the Interior ; the president herself who points to the mantra «indeep that the fault is Spain..., so we are not doing well. That's not solving, that's blaming others. And you will agree with me that the policy of firefighting is to prevent, invest in that prevention and then help the injured – money, economic means. I ask you, as quickly as a fund has been invented to help the evildoers of the process, to create a rescue fund for the areas affected by the fires of July, to announce what investments they are going to make, the ones needed in the Catalan forests to prevent these catastrophes in 2022. It has caused me shame to see how the Councillor of Economics joyfully announced that there are officials of the Institut Català de Financi, which we call « de Fiances, willing to play if the type to solve the emergencies of supposed oppressed like Mr Artur Mas, whom we have all been able to see in the last weeks with water around the neck on the coast of Menorca next to his yacht, suffering much. Dedicate the public money they have left to pay the embezzlers to prevent fires, to compensate the injured, because it is their obligation and... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.105.0	Time's up, Mr. Carrizosa. It has the word, to answer, the president of the Generalitat.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.106.0	See, I know that, Mr. Carrizosa... I don't know, this strategy won't work with me, basically because you accuse me of things I haven't said. I didn't say the fire was Espanya's fault. I've just talked about the action we've done in this late clean winter and work in the forest perimeters, and specifically it's been done in the head of Creus. And thanks to this was contained the abst of the fire, which obviously we must regret. And I want to take advantage to thank all the professionals who have worked for its extinction, and also to thank all the volunteers who were dedicated this week to fighting this concrete fire, and to the local authorities who were working there. So, you made it up that I said the fire was Espanya's fault. So, I didn't say it, and so I don't have to justify something I didn't say. He said before the Councillor of the Interior, with all the encircling, that he had information that there is at the very beginning, so, yesterday, in this case of the French State, that if from the current protocol, before the exhausting of the air mediums that are much more distant for the simple fact that they are mediums of the Spanish State, before requesting them to the French State, then this, in a cross-border area, must be able to resolve. And it's a matter of common sense, because natural disasters don't understand borders, and so we have to put it in common. And we'll make it feel like it. And from here, the actions in fire prevention are very clear. First, the fires go out mostly in the winter. This is always remembered by the people of Rural Agents and the Bombers. Therefore, we will continue to work, as we have done, in everything that is clear of forests and above all the perimeter fringes, which allow to control fires when these take, therefore, an important dimension. Cal a much more ambitious forest management policy in this country and donate economic utility to the country's forests as well. And obviously preserving our biodiversity. Therefore, it is possible to do this and I recommend the experience of a visit by the hand of the people who carry the Cape Creus Natural Park, who will see that this is applying there and that is what has allowed it to have a size... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and the President continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.107.0	Time's up, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the government's performance before the fifth wave of the covid pandemic-19]] [[317-00044/13]] He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the current political situation. The question is posed by Mr David Cid of the Gruppo Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.108.0	Yes, President, I'm starting with a previa. Look, I recognize that the edges of Creus' head were really what they were supposed to be, and maybe that's why the fire didn't come this far; now I also think it was good that, along with the criticisms, thanks are given to the eleven media yesterday that the Ministry of Economic Transition posed in order to suffocate the fire. [[Some applause.]] Miri, president, from In Comú We may want to ask him... because we are concerned about the evolution of the fifth wave of the covid. We have the contagious memory in Catalonia at European level, the primary care weeks ago that is collapsing, the tracking capacity has been lost, the forty_per_cent– the forty_per_cent– of the close contacts do not make quarantine and the Health Department estimates that the week that we will get to five hundred patients in the ICU. President, how do you value the performance of your government before the fifth wave?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.109.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.110.0	Precisely in the last Ple, in various interventions I did, I already warned that we were in a situation where the data – and we said it textually – « didn't go well and that the data went worse. This led us to take action in common with the assemblies, such as the measure of night confinement from one to six in the morning, the finalization of all activities regulated at 0.30 hours, the limitation of social findings to a maximum of two people and a whole set of measures, also, of reinforcement, of revision of protocols, to move to a phase of mitigation, as we have found before an increase in cases, which has been an increment that I believe – and here I assume all the necessary self-criticism – was therefore not foreseeable at the time it was produced. Because it was, it was, suddenly, very few days ago, with a new variant that had an impact and a contagious ability, in a context of generalised vaccination, that made us predict that it would not have this effect. But it's been done, it's been done decisively, and I said it wouldn't shake our wrists and it won't shake us. And it shows that we've taken action and we'll follow them if we have to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.111.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.112.0	Look, president, they're not just the government of resignation anymore, they're the government of repetition, of repetition of mistakes: everything's fine, nothing works. Miri, the first and hardest mistake, the primary attention. After a year and a half of pandemic, they are not professional, they lack economic resources and today they are collapsing. The second mistake, a fast, unscathed mass, like the Nadal; open the night oci before a Sant Joan without restrictions. And this will cause impacts in the tourist season and in the economic recovery of Catalonia. The third mistake, vintages and vintages, weeks claiming to the State the removal of the mask and then, like a smoke screen, is to reposition the mask outside as the great proposal they made in the full expansion of the coronavirus. The fourth error, macro-festivals that you yourself have recognized that you should not have done when the pandemic was absolutely fired as well. And the fifth mistake, the loss of tracking capacity and also the ability to complete quarantine. President, the councillor of Salut cannot be a mere chronicler of reality, a commentator. You have to rule, you have to make decisions. We need solutions, not opinions. There is already a reinforcement to strengthen primary care, regain the ability to track and above all to make decisions in time. In short, as they govern, not only do they think. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.113.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.114.0	Thank you, President. Member, allow me, before I have done so, to thank him for the mention he made about the head of Creus and the measures that had been taken, and we also had the opportunity to have the support of eleven media yesterday by the Government of the State, which we appreciate. Obviously, in those areas where we think it is better, we also find the point of better. From here, when things happen, it's very easy to judge and say what would have happened if we could have gone back in time. This pandemic has taught us all that we must be extremely humble, and we are, in this sense. You made reference to the area of primary care. The problem is structural. And, therefore, it cannot be demanded that, in fifteen days, not even in six months, a problem of years is solved, which has to do with the availability of professionals, the working conditions, which are to be improved, and in this sense it is a structural task that will be completed and that, therefore, we will need an adequate forecast of funding. But you also mentioned other decisions in which I believe that, once they've passed, a time has passed and we've seen the name of the contagion, it's easy now to look for the rearview mirror, and I think it's not just like you did. Among other things, because many of the actions that you have mastered in error, in places where you have responsibilities, also in great cities of the country [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] They asked us to shoot in front of... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and the President continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.115.0	He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the current political situation. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the preposition of the economic interests of certain sectors to the salvation of the majority of the population]] [[317-00046/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Laia Estrada, from the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.116.0	President Aragonès, for what he does to the management of the covid, we want to ask him if his government will keep this tonic to advance economic interests a few moments before the salvation of the majority of the population.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.117.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.118.0	I believe that if one thing we have shown this government and the members of this government, and the two political formations that form part of it, it is that at very complicated times in the pandemic we have always put salvation forward, even if there were painful economic consequences for the economic sectors of the country, and that we worked to make up for it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.119.0	To answer that question, you have the word of Mrs. Estrada.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.120.0	We've had five days already, and the current one is the one with the worst amounts of incidence in which we carry a health crisis. The same advisor Argimon recognized, therefore, in this context of covid absolutely unnoticed, that some of Salut did not do things well. That's self-criticism, not what you did a few seconds ago, which has been a justification, pretty harsh, by the way. Beyond self-criticism, however, and with all the humility you want, President, it is a matter of not repeating decisions that have proved to be wrong. And I'm going back to the past, when everyone was absolutely in agreement that the de-escalation had given itself too fast. Even the government's spokesman at the time came to say that we couldn't afford a new Sant Joan. And look! , because we are not saying that all the current situation is only the consequence of Sant Joan, or the consequence of the macrofestivals, that also, but what we have seen is, again, a totally accelerated descalation. And we've seen it with the bat opening to beat tourism, the night oci opening, the seemingly unconcerned rise of all restrictions... And this we attribute, from one side, to confidence in the very good rate of vaccination – we are aware – but it has also yielded to the pressures of certain sectors and also to the obviation of all the risks of the delta and the obviation of all the alerts of primary care, which, as always, is missing and obviated. Again, here, what we see is that other interests have been prioritized. And we want him to be able to do this once and for all. Rather than prioritizing the interests of a few over, before the salvation of the majority of the population. To act only in a restrictive way, without taking the resources that are also needed – they are essential, in fact – to public health to prevent and also to intervene by taking resources in terms of staff or infrastructure to all health centres and also with screening staff. And lastly, prioritizing the salvation of the people also means fighting all the data of impoverishment that we are seeing, that the accumulating of the covid in the capitalist system is seen to the ICUs but also in the denunciations, in the twilight or in the taxes of inequality, and so much more resources is also guaranteeing pa, strenght and work for the conjunction of the... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.121.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.122.0	Thank you. Madam Member, in the first place I would like to express not only the support to the Department of Health, but also the gratitude to the pocket for the team of Councillor Argimon on these days that they feel difficult. I have had the opportunity – because we have been working colza to colze – to prove firsthand that the department is working more than a hundred_per_cent, together with the entire government, in order to reverse this situation. Today, in this plenary, in this late plenary of this July, it seems that the late plenary of fifteen days ago did not occur, where we were already with some data indicating that there was a growth..., that we all hoped, also from the scientific point of view, that this growth was not exponential, but that there was a certain confidence that there would be a much more moderate growth – and here, therefore, certainly, is one of the explanations why we found ourselves with this situation. In that plenary, and fifteen days ago, when the data began to be donated, the analysis – which I thank – and the contributions – which I thank – of parliamentary groups did not produce. So, I think we should all be a little honest in the political debate, too. This government and some of us personally, exercising previous responsibilities, in my case as Vice President, but also in the case of Councillor Argimon as Secretary of Public Health, we adopted measures that if we had to take into account the economic interest we had not done so, and we took them to protect the salvation of the people. And at the same time we went there and we went there... we were the government of autonomous communities from all over the state that most resources went to the economic sectors affected by the cove. So I think we need to be right about this, too. And from here we do all the self-criticism. It is obvious that the situation we have encountered should not have occurred, it is obvious, and it has the explanations that there is. And here I am the first to take on the responsibilities and to take on the criticisms that may be there, because the government is collegiate and because, obviously, all the business that remains of any of my advisors is also an occupation and a concern of mine. From here it will be necessary to continue acting. They wait for us for a few weeks to continue to maintain the measures to permanently reverse the raven.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.123.0	Ask the President of the Generalitat to reply orally to the plenary on the management of public money in relation to TV3. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the management of public money in relation to TV3]] [[317-00043/13]] The question is posed by Mr Ignacio Garriga of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.124.0	Mr Aragonès, how long will you continue to waste the money of all Catalans on a propaganda and manipulation entity like TV3?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.125.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.126.0	TV3 will not waste; it follows a mandate from this Parliament established by law. And we will continue to defend TV3, Catalonia Radio and all public communication media, especially those of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, for the function they have of public information services and to enhance the audiovisual industry in Catalonia, which are the two reasons for which you would like to close TV3, Catalonia Radio. And we won't allow it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.127.0	To answer that question, Mr. Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.128.0	Mr Aragonès, TV3 is neither a public service nor an essential service for Catalans, it is an entity of hatred converted into a propaganda loudspeaker of each and every slogan of separatism against the majority of citizens, an instrument of mass agitation at the service of the criminals who have ruined our land. But, of course, his conception of public service is very different from ours. Only in this way is it understood that the president of the Generalitat, yourself, in the midst of an economic and social crisis, half burning Catalonia, is dedicated to walking through illegal mosques and taking pictures with Salafist magnets. Instead of taking care of the most disadvantaged in this crisis, in helping the self-employed, the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who have lost everything or the families who cannot reach the end of the month, you once again stand on the side of those who break the law. The closure of TV3, Mr Aragonès, is urgent, is a cry in most of Catalonia and among the hundreds of thousands of Catalans who do not feel represented by their dreams of that independent Catalonia; a chain financed by the taxes of all Catalans, which is dedicated to pointing us out, defaming us and insulting us all. Yes, Mr. Aragonès, to all Catalans. Screams of « whore Spain, presenters who prefer swastikas to the national flag, shoot our emeritus king or burn copies of the Constitution. A massive scandal that costs us hundreds of millions of euros every year. The level of manipulation and poisoning of the director, Mr. Sanchis, is so high and so rude that even the company committee and the Union of Journalists of Catalonia have censored their work. But we're going beyond that. We do not want to stop Mr. Sanchis, we want to close the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, starting with TV3, because behind every stone in Vic, every burnt container, every dock in Urquinaona or every desecration, like the one that happened this weekend in Montserrat and which you have not yet condemned, is the finger accuser of TV3. Their incendiary chatter and manipulated programs are the wind that pushes those radicals, financed and supported by the Generalitat, to harass the majority of peaceful Catalans. But, look, we're not scared of their thematic programmes against VOX or their criminalization campaigns against me or my party partners. Mr Aragonès, tell your spokesmen to continue making more episodes about our political formation, that more Catalans will know every day who exercises the only opposition to their ideological delusions and their rupturist agenda. And don't forget: many Catalans will join VOX and rebuild everything they have... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.129.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.130.0	You really should make an effort to, in a minute and a half, as you have learned, include so much hatred, so many incoherences, so much demagogicity and so much destructive will. [[Some applause.]] His efforts are truly commendable. Miri, I will continue to visit the country's organisations and associations that show that this is a different country. I am proud of the diversity of this country, resin to whom I resin, come from whom I come, speak as I speak. I will continue to enhance the diversity of this country and give it the recognition it deserves, because this is a diverse country and this diversity is an act and it is a fort. From here, you have made it very clear; you are the ones of: that which they do not like to listen to is to be closed, these means of public communication which do not fit into their report are to be closed, to silence the sight of journalists. In fact, they already want to silence, at last, and threaten, at last, the editors of humorous magazines like Thursday. So, to all of you there... and this is a feature of the extreme right that you've always had, that's to say, everything that you don't like to feel, in terms of respect for it, you attack and want to lock it up. In short, as Ovidi Montllor said, people who don't like to be written, think or sing in català are the same people who don't like to be sang, write or think. And I think that's their case. And if the Ovid was alive, today I would say clearly that this phrase made her think of you. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.131.0	He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the latest developments in political affairs. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the management of the fifth wave of the covid-19 pandemic]] [[317-00045/13]] The question is posed by Mr Albert Batet, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.132.0	Thank you very much, President. Many honourable President, members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, we want to start this intervention with a special mention to Councillor Turull, who this week will end the Travessa per la Libertat, a recurring walker from point to point of the country, from Portbou to Arnes – yes, passing through Montserrat, even though some of them are annoyed – to aggravate the people's support for more than three years to unjust imprisonment. As Counselor Turull says these days, to get it back we have to be again. He's there, and so are we. That said, President Aragones, the fifth wave of the pandemic has seized us with the little change and we have to take steps back, despite the excellent execution of the vaccination process, with more than 4_million Catalans and Catalans that we already have the complete schedule. After the pandemic and with enormous emotional wear and tear, we wanted to believe that the virus was already more than past than present. But the highly contagious delta has brought us back to reality; it has been very fast and has had a hard impact, especially among young people. For example, in Catalonia there are now more than four hundred cases of persons under forty years of age when just one_month ago, they were only sixty; seven times more. In general terms, the data are very worrying and the pressure is again high in hospitals and primary care centers. For this reason, the government has had to recover severe measures, which we thought we had already left behind, such as the curfew, or as time restrictions. They are tough decisions, yes; but they would need to cut the growth of cases that complicate a difficult balance between health and the economy. President Aragones, there is no better self-criticism than working with transparency. He knows that it counts with all of Junts' support for Catalonia to lead this situation. We would like to know, too, your opinion of respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.133.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.134.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr Batet, I want your intervention in your totality. I believe that the situation in which we are forced to take action. It's obvious we're close to them. And I'd like to point out that today we still have a risk of resurgence of 1,176. The Rt, of course, has been at 0.99, but it's been days since it's been at some very high levels. And, therefore, we do not have to lower the guard. We have to maintain the measures that have been taken, because the condition that is on the primary care centers means that there are areas that are not being diagnosed sufficiently, that there are other conditions that must wait for their treatment because the professionals must be destined, therefore, to what is the treatment of..., to the detection of covid cases. And the same goes for hospitals, especially in the beds of criticism. At the same time, there are positive news. And the positive news is vaccination: 4,800,000 Catalans and Catalans are vaccinated with the first dose; 4,100,000 Catalans with a full schedule. And, therefore, more than fifty per cent of the Catalan population. The pandemic isn't over. You have given support to the measures we have taken by the Government, I think we should remember them. He's locked himself in the night octopus again. The schedule of all activities has been reduced, because it ends at 0.30 hours at most. It has reintroduced the need that all events, therefore, is realized with the public assured. Meetings and family meetings have been limited to a maximum of two people. We've established... we've eliminated the possibility of group consumption in the licensed public space. We have introduced a municipal night confinement in the most affected towns and cities for the pandemic. And there have been nine safety recommendations, such as the use of the mask, also in open space. A job, obviously, that calls for the responsibility of the city council, with the government at the forefront. And in this sense, I will not tire of giving thanks to all health professionals and, obviously, to the department for the task they are doing. From here, let's go where you need to stop the covid. We still have a few complicated weeks ahead of us. I think we need to be aware that we will have a high level of incidence and, therefore, despite the fact that we are now getting better, that the number of cases will begin to decrease, we will still have – still – hospital and primary care involvement for days to come. Therefore, the measures will be maintained until they are necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.135.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to respond orally in plenary on the latest political developments. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the possibilities that open the best qualification of the Generality's debt]] [[317-00047/13]] The question is posed by Mr Josep Maria Jové, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.136.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, President. It is difficult for good news to arrive at this control session, but we believe that this week we did not have one: the Generalitat has left behind the shady good; its debt is no longer considered speculation to be an inversion. This good news, however, does not make us forget the bad news of yesterday, when rating agencies conditioned economic policy every day and had harmful consequences on the welfare of the citizenry. In 2008, these agencies were part of the big mistake and were a necessary actor for the application of austerity policies that so many governments embraced enthusiastically, also here. We demand good governance in public finances, so as to guarantee our welfare, just against what austerity and detail are. We've been trying for years to get away from the effects of those policies. New years in which, it is worth remembering, the accounts of the Generality have been intervened twice for the governments of Mariano Rajoy; twice. Without state control, today we see, therefore, the best value. Requalification supposes, despite everything, to regain international prestige, trust and credibility in the Catalan economy. Now it confirms the good work done in managing our finances. The requalification, moreover, is the umpteenth demonstration that it is not the legitimate claim of self-determination that generates instability. What makes us thump is to go to the state trailer and to the dictate of the markets. The common good goes through a progressive and green taxation, which makes a strategic use of public debt. It is about stimulating and investing in the economy by means of social policies and transformers. We know that today the vast majority of our debt is with the FLA and that we don't have to go on in debt without looking at how we've done it so far, with whom we've done it and above all, why we've done it. We cannot reconnect our debt to sources of financing of ethical doubt or to regressive and political policies that perpetuate an economic and social model failed. We can be more transparent, yes, and recovering this debt capacity is an opportunity, too, to be. Enjoy it, then. Today is better than yesterday. That our bona managed, however, repercussions on the people, president. For this reason, we want to ask him about what possibilities we have for the better qualification of the generality's debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.137.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.138.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. President... Before I begin to answer this question, I think it is also up to the Councillor to thank him, too, for the announcement he made today, for the compromise shown and for the joint work. With him is the government's conjunction. This same week, in fact, we had been disbanded, we knew the rating from the Fitch agency that the generality's debt is back in the category of inversion. And this has a very clear impact on how this debt is accounted for in investors' portfolios, which is also allowed to be used as collateral, as collateral to access the European Central Bank's financing. Therefore, we begin to take the first steps, speedily, in order to be in a position to return to public debt and stop resorting to the FLA. That's excellent news. It is excellent news, too, in the context in which it is produced. I want to remind you that this qualification about the Generality's debt is produced after a year in which, in one year, it is the year that has fallen more GDP in all the Generality's history since they have official data. And despite everything, the Fitch agency, what's the highlight? The diversification of the Catalan economy, the power in small and medium-sized enterprises, the sound management of public finances and, obviously, the stake in solving political and democratic problems politically, which is how it should be done. Therefore, we have regained the potential for reversal. We still have work to do, but at a time like the present, when we need expansionary policies, we need a role of the administrations and, therefore, also of the Government of the country, of the Government of Catalonia, acting in the economy, an investor role, precisely – and this clearly connects with what will be the great impact of the Next Generation funds – so, at this moment, the Generality improves its ability to make this investor paper also. Obviously, we must continue to work in many areas, but I believe that, with the learning of the lessons of the past few years, we are very clear that Catalonia must convert..., and the Generality of Catalonia must become the engine of an entrepreneurial state, with that idea of Mariana Mazzucate, precisely, to support this transformation of the economy, which must be a social, green, feminist and democratic transformation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.139.0	He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the current political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the assistance of the Councillor of Economy and History to the Council of Fiscal and Financial Policy]] [[317-00042/13]] The question is posed by Mr Salvador Illa, of the Socialists and Units Parliamentary Group for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.140.0	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, as a matter of fact, it is not a bad thing, a brio de seny. « To be everywhere where the economic conditions of Catalans can be improved. There were some words from your government's economic advisor, Mr. President, uttered yesterday, later on to the executive council, on your press wheel. Feather reference to the proposed convening of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. Ah, quickly, a prevention, if I may the government, because we will make a collegiate decision. Mr President, are you in favour of your Economic Adviser, your Government's Economic Adviser assisting the Fiscal and Finance Policy Council, which is to be convened in a manner appropriate?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.141.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.142.0	As you know, the Government of Catalonia prioritizes, to solve the country's day-to-day problems, as well as bilateral relations with the State. For what he refers to multilateral bodies, if he goes to work and if he goes to co-decision, there is. If you're going to take a picture, the truth is, we have a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.143.0	To answer that question, Mr. Illa has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.144.0	It is a lack of respect, what I have just said, for the rest of the members of other autonomous communities to assist these multilateral bodies, sincerely. [[Greetings.]] I don't know what you're doing! I don't know what you're going to do; those who are going, I assure you, they're going to work there. I've been saying presidents' conferences, where there was Mr. Torra, and we didn't do any photos, we were fighting the pandemic. And multilateral organs are workspaces. Conference of Presidents of 30 July: no. He didn't go there. Conference of the Tax and Finance Policy Council : we don't know. Dialeg to Catalonia: no, we don't want to. Mr. Aragonès, is becoming the president of the no, the president in myths and the president of midja Catalunya. Miri, Catalan society is moving. He wants a change. He wants political stability in Catalonia. This is also at the basis of the qualification, which I salute, of the rating in Catalonia. Catalunya advances, Spain advances, Europe advances. And you're quiet, your government is quiet. I ask you, please, to attend all multilateral bodies, the Tax and Finance Policy Council, the Conference of Presidents..., which is where you are defending Catalonia's interests. May you be present, on behalf of all Catalans, there to defend the interests of Catalans and Catalans. If it is, it will have our support. If he's not, he'll have our censure. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.145.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.146.0	The one who wants Catalan citizenship does not decide it, with all respect. The citizens decided on the 14th of February. And they said two things: an absolute independenceist majority in votes and votes. Therefore, this is what Catalan society also wants and not what you want. From here, Conference of Presidents of July 30th: agenda of the day? Are you sure you're working on it? Today we don't know. We are on the 21st of July, no official convocation, no order of the day, no scheduled work. On August 2, we will have the opportunity to bring together the Bilateral State-General Commission; we are working on the order of the day, doing all the planned work, looking at possible agreements. So, if there's no order of the day again, there's no..., they haven't called us on call, we don't know what documentation they're going to have, what are we going to do there? It can go to an institutional act, certainly, and it can have its value, I don't say no, but I think we also have other priorities. And I participated in a conference of Presidents in place of President Torra that lasted five minutes from each representative and a greeting from the President of the Spanish Government. This is not the working mechanism if co-decision mechanisms are wanted. If the mechanisms are co-decision, if you really are going to work there – and I have been representing Catalonia in tax and financial policy councils, where you have worked there – then there you are. I've also been on tax policy boards and I'll finance those that didn't work people and that was just a big deal. Therefore, I believe that precisely you defend the status quo, you defend the autonomous system – it is not my model, my model is the independence of Catalonia – so you should defend it well. And, therefore, multilateral bodies, which are still working. And what we have now is another thing, which is not to work. Legitimate who wants to set it up, but we have a lot of work to do, there is a country that needs to be set aside and for this government this is its priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.147.0	After the control session, we now move to the next item on the agenda, which is the appointment of an intervention deputy for the presupposition period of 2021. [[Designation of an intervener for the presupposition period of 2021]] [[231-00001/13]] The Enlarged Bureau, as provided for in Article 37.5 of the Rules of Procedure, has granted the Plenary the nomination of Mr Ferran Roquer and Mr Padrosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, as the Speaker for this budgetary period, in place of Mrs Teresa Pallarès. Do you understand that this proposal can be considered approved by consent? [[Pause.]] So... [[David Cid Colomer asks to speak.]] Excuse me. Yes, Mr. Cid, I hadn't seen him...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.148.0	Simply to say that yes, that it can be considered approved by consent, but, as we have already done to the Board of Spokesmen, remember that the three interveners, in this case, are three men. And, therefore, it was a good thing that we also reflected on all the parliamentary groups because, at the next renewal, which, if I wasn't wrong, is the next year, as you also reminded me of the Board of Spokespersons, we could look into this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.149.0	Thank you. We have already commented, effectively, as you recall, on the Board of Spokesmen. In fact, the only woman there is the one who has left her status as a Member of Parliament and replaced her. Therefore, it is appointed as the deputy intervener Mr Ferran Roquer and Mr Pedrosa. [[Decree-Law 13/2021 of 22 June, which regulates the Catalan Guarantee and Evaluation Commission and the Register of Health Professionals objectors of consciousness, in the development of the Organic Law 3/2021 of 24 March, regulating euthanasia]] [[203-00003/13]] The fourth point of the order of the day is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 13/2021 of June 22, for which is regulated the Commission of Guarantee and Evaluation of Catalonia and the Register of Health Professionals objectors of consciousness, in development of the Organic Law 3/2021, of March 24, of regulation of euthanasia. In the first place, according to Rule 158.2 of the Rules, will speak the councillor Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut, to expose the reasons for which it has been promulgated this decree law. I've got the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.150.0	Many honourable President, ladies and gentlemen, Catalonia has been a pioneer in the recognition, promotion and defence of the rights of the citizenry. It may be recalled that in 2005 the Committee on Bioethics of Catalonia has already drawn up a report on euthanasia, and in 2017 this Parliament has already adopted an initiative to present to the Congress of Deputies a proposal for a law on decriminalization of euthanasia. In 2019 the Government is pushing for a table of parties to advance in the regulation of euthanasia and to agree to reclaim the decriminalization from the Congress. All these initiates respond to the need to respond to the open debate about the dignified death that has been driving our country for years people and associations like the Right Association to Morir Dignament. Finally, according to the current jurisdictional framework, the General Courts approved on March the Law 3/2021 of 24 March on the regulation of euthanasia, which introduces in our legal order a new individual right, the right to euthanasia. In the preamble of the law, it defines the concept of euthanasia as "good death or worthy death." The law regulates the rights of persons who meet the criteria for requesting and receiving the necessary help to die, establishes the rights of health professionals and regulates the obligations of administrations and institutions. Among these requirements is to suffer a difficult and incurable illness with insufferable patience or a difficult chronic and impossible suffering with unbearable patience, certified for the responsible faculty staff. The decree that the government approved on June 22nd and that today we submit to the consideration of the chamber in response to the need for the deployment of the organic law. The decree makes it possible to exercise this right to dignified death, and it does so by creating the necessary instruments and mechanisms, which are functionally two, for its application with all guarantees. In the first place, create and regulate the Catalonia Guarantee and Evaluation Commission. This commission has as its main mission to verify with preview and subsequent character the completion of the requirements to obtain the performance of the aid to die and resolve administratively the claims that are raised. In this sense, the report that the commission was already constituted last week and is formed by twelve incumbent members, professionals of medicine, law, infirmary, psychology, social work, and representatives of civil society, in addition to the secretary, who is a technical professional formed in bioethics of the Department of Health. For the appointment of these people, the decree establishes that the Catalonian Bioethics Committee is to be heard in advance, referring to our country from years ago in the bioethics debate and consulting body in this matter. The people who occupy the vocals have been offered for the corresponding professional colleges or for the Department of Health. This gives a character involved in these designations with the intervention and involvement of the colegial organs. The Guarantee and Evaluation Commission shall carry out its functions with full functional independence and without subjecting it to hierarchical instructions. The second guarantee instrument that establishes the law decree is the Register of Health Professionals objectors of consciousness for the duration of the service. In this process, health professionals can declare themselves as conscientious objectors for the realization of this performance in a global way or for the realization of the performance of a specific case. The register is confidential and has no public character. The law decree also provides for the registration procedure, which is already in operation. Beyond this content of the law decree, it means that to make possible the development of the law from the Health Department is giving training to professionals. In this sense, now more than two thousand professionals, both from the healthcare system in Catalonia and from the private sector, from the public system to the private sector, are carrying out a course of awareness and basic concepts on the application of the organic law regulating euthanasia through different virtual platforms. We have scheduled editions of the course until 31 December, with a forecast of training more than eleven_ thousand people. It should also be noted that the care model that is being implemented follows a very guaranteed procedure, with the intervention of professional differences and the guarantee commission and with the possibility of appeal in case of refusal. Thus, it is envisaged to be able to advise the Committee on Bioethics and the Committees on Care Ethics, through the Catalonia Guarantee and Evaluation Commission, and to facilitate the process from the Department of Health through a support office. We believe that the predictions of this decree help to set up a model of euthanasia with the maximum guarantees to make the right to a dignified death possible for people who so ask and meet the necessary conditions; a model based on the principles of personal autonomy, territorial equity, multidisciplinary work, confidentiality and accessibility. Let's hope, then, that the decree can be validated for this chamber today and so I refer to this model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.151.0	The parliamentary groups will then intervene to determine their position. This round of words, as agreed at the last Spokesman's Meeting, will be a maximum of five minutes. First of all, there is the word for the Socialists' Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mrs Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.152.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, now explained the Councillor, we are taking the necessary steps to make Catalonia effective the law regulating euthanasia approved for the Congress of Deputies at the proposal of the Government of Spain. We are doing it, and we have done it..., and I would say that throughout this process we have also done it from the hands of friends, companions, wrestlers and tireless members of the Right to a Dignity Death Association. Without his impulse and his master's degree I doubt much that we were here today. Three Members of this Parliament of Catalonia had the honour of defending in the Congress of Deputies a resolution that for the first time was admitted to court and which, moreover, counted on as much consent as possible. We'll do it and we've done it as many times as we need to defend the right to a worthy death. I know it's hard that the decree..., we will support the decree, but I know it's hard that the contents of the decree have not worked with the other political forces, among other things, because there was the working group here in the Parliament of Catalonia. Anyway, it's the law's application to Catalonia. Just reiterate: do not break this consensus, because on this topic I think it is necessary. I told you before the counselor, didn't I? the bioethics committee reported in 2005, but its contents, not just judicious, health and social, are fully in force. And, therefore, this defence of dignity at the time of death, leaving the decision in the hands of the person, is what we are defending today. The decree has two parts, as the councillor explained very well, in his content. For a band, what's the commission, the commission that's the guarantee and it's the evaluation, too, right? , because it will be the one that will have as much information as possible so we can know if in the previous application and in the post-application we are doing well, the application of the law and all its precepts. And, therefore, the other part of the decree... that we agree with its composition, a composition to the widest possible extent, that retreats jurists, meths, faculty, infirmary, psychology and people dealing with and also talking about bioethics, right? There must be all the professional experts. And, among other things, we also have to guarantee in its workings, always, all the terms, because the last thing we can afford is to wrap up the sufferings. It also meant that we agreed on evaluation functions. He used to tell the councilman about... that he's a guarantor. And it's true: when the law was talked about, it was a guaranteed law, but somehow we have to protect the most vulnerable. No one has the right to take advantage of vulnerability and a patient's right to benefits. And this is a responsibility of the administrations and of all those who accompany at the time of death. We have work left to do in this sense, which is to make the document of early vows more accessible. It is a struggle that we carry from the previous legislature a few Members of this Parliament, and I think we need to continue it, we need to make it accessible and easy to make the document of anticipated intentions. The second part of the decree speaks of the Register of conscientious objectors. It's a right. In no case can we make the defense of one right appease the compliment of another. And, therefore, it is clear that the inscription does not have to determine the causes, but, simply, the inscription is to know which professionals are objecting to conscience, and, therefore, also how they can organize the servants in this sense. It must be made clear that the objection is individual, not collective. No hospital or centre of the public health system – neither ICS nor Siscat – can refuse to apply the law, and therefore the law that also regulates euthanasia. You did, didn't you? , that a guarantee of a right does not matter to us the object and application of basic law, which is that of euthanasia. We also believe we have to work for territorial equity. At the length of this session we will also see a motion on the voluntary interruption of pregnancy; it is the compliment of the rights, the exercise of the rights, but also the territorial fairness with which this is done. Fem, then, with this decree a step further in the application of the law. They owe it to many people, from Ramon Sampedro to Angel Hernández; they owe it to all those who have fought for the achievement of a right that, whatever they say, we will continue to fight for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.153.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the deputy Mr Juli Fernàndez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.154.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor, deputies, deputies. Probably, they must have listened some time to a phrase from the activist and leader of the Afro-American movement for civil rights Martin Luther King who says: "Always is the right time to make the right thing. It's always the right time to do what's right. And it's true that today we're doing the right thing with which we approve, we're ratifying in this little room, as it's also true, as the phrase says, that we would have liked to have been there before. We wouldn't only have liked each other but we've been working on it for many years and we'd have wanted to have done it. In concrete terms, it was twenty-five years ago that Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya brought to the Congress of Deputies the proposal to decriminalize euthanasia, and the right fell upon us the initiative. Twenty-three years ago, 1998, that in this very Parliament the majority of Parliamentarians of Convergence and Union and of the People's Party voted against its regulation. And from now on, in this Parliament we have seen parliamentary initiatives of all kinds seeking to advance in the conquest of this right, accompanied by the Catalan association for dignified death, and generating consensus – it is the way to advance in the conquest of rights. On his own dates, as the Councillor referred to, as Mrs Escarp referred to, the year 2019, this Parliament was a driving force in the Congress of Deputies for being able to acquiesce to this law, the year 2021, which conquers and holds a right to all of us, despite the fact that some, who are said to be liberals and fill their mouths as if they were advocates of individual freedoms, then vote against laws that guarantee the individual's ability to die worthily, to decide how and when he wants to die. Republicanism has always been on the side of the people, on the side of the common sense, of the social adventure in rights and freedoms, and we have defended the just and the most necessary yearnings for a basic right that has been wrongly penalized for years by those people who needed it and their family environment, and has also unjustly punished people who have helped and collaborated in the patience of these other people as much as possible. Therefore, today we incorporate a right that guarantees the equality of all citizens to die with dignity and justice when they desire and in full freedom. A law that had a broad consensus to society, between health professionals and also, as it had been, recalling this work, necessary work and without it being impossible to have arrived here, from associations that led to this being a reality. Finally, and focusing on the decree that deploys this right to dignified death or good death, the decree incorporates this assessment board, which ensures that this right is realized in a correct way. And, on the other hand, the appearance of a right generates other individuals: the health professionals to object. And here I would like to reiterate a few words that I think are important that we repeat: this right is an individual right of professionals, in case it can be a right of the head institution and still less of the providers of the public health system. Therefore, this register gives us a tool that guarantees the right to die dignifiedly, because we will know who the professional objectors are, and that will therefore allow us to implement the public health system of this country's right to dignified death. The public system must be an example and a leader in the guarantee of rights, in the guarantee of the right to dignified death, but also in the guarantee of the voluntary interruption of pregnancy in its centers. It's a repte and it's an obligation. We have incorporated the right to death thanks to courage, thanks to persistence and conviction and the commitment of many people. Today you can say it wasn't going to work. For all these people, today we continue to support voting for and compromises with dignity and freedom of persons. Thank you very much. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.155.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the Member of Parliament Maria Assumption Laïlla has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.156.0	Thank you, President. In this Parliament we have talked enough about the right to die with dignity, about palliative care, we have talked about early intentions – Mrs Escarp was talking about it, which is true that it is a theme, a folder that we still have open in this chamber and that we would like to be able to close properly – we have talked about bioethics, concepts that in many cases, sometimes, are very controversial, certainly, but that more than that are also complementary. Because dying is part of life, and this has become very clear in this Parliament these last years– the Councillor and MP Escarp also reminded us – when three Members, MP Escarp, who is today vice-president of the Bureau – MP Vergés – and also MP Marta Ribas, of the group of commons, who is no longer a deputy, went along with the proposal emanating from this Parliament to make a law to the Congress of Deputies. With the approval of the organic law regulating euthanasia, there appears a new right to which to give compliment and which changes this current legal order, but also precisely in order to be able to follow the norm, it is necessary to regulate and complete the right of conscientious objection of health professionals who, for particular reasons, personal, do not want to participate in this process of euthanasia that can request a patient. And so that you can complete the two rights and one does not advance to the other, the law provides for the creation of a commission of guarantee and evaluation of Catalonia and also this register of health professionals objectors of consciousness. This committee must resolve those cases that come to it and must validate that the process that is done in the pre- and post-is correct and has been done to the right law, also following the patient's petitions. But also this law, and for me this is also important, will act as an administrative consultant and must be trained by professionals of medicine, infirmary, psychology, social work with experience in the whole health field, already hospital, primary, mental or community health, and also with training in bioethics. And here I would like to highlight the work done by the Health Department's Care Ethics Committee, but also all those care ethics committees that already have a lot of centers, that have been in place for many years and that we have been pioneers in this and that will surely work on rapeseed rape, as they have done so far with the Administration, but also with this assessment and guarantee committee. And in the same way, this decree also regulates the creation of a register of professionals who declare conscientious objectors. This register, of course, will be attached to the data protection law and the use of the information it contains and must be confidential and not public. I believe that with this register we must be able to guarantee the rights, but also the safeguarding of the personal information of these health professionals who want to join, who must also be obviously doctors, nurses, psychologists and pharmacists. They are data that must be kept up to date and I also believe that you are relevant, you may say, that they can be revoked. In this sense, we will obviously support this decree so that it can be carried out as soon as possible and compliment this approved law that so many efforts and debates have brought us here to Parliament. And I would like to point out that it is a controversial issue that I want to be aware of also from this Faristol that it has always been a subject that has been treated with the utmost respect, not only among parliamentary groups, that we have always debated deeply and seriously and rigorously these issues, especially those that want and speak and that touch a significant part of bioethics and that here it has always been treated with respect, as well as highlighting the work done by entities such as the Dret à Morir Dignament in Catalonia, that have done a brutal, inactive job of supporting the entire parliamentary task that we have always done and also showing the maximum respect for all positions of parliamentary groups. Therefore, from here on forward we will obviously support this law decree and that more for its application as soon as possible we will not want to process it as the law project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.157.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, for the VOX Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ignacio Garriga, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.158.0	Thank you, President. I recognize that this has been one of the most difficult interventions to prepare, and that it comes to justify and highlight the importance of VOX breaking into this Parliament. For decades, there has been no political formation that addresses cultural Marxism, the progressive consensus, those left-wing policies that carry all the political parties present in this chamber, progressing year after year. You, acting as a belt of transmission from your partners in the Government of the nation, bring us this decree law to approve the Commission of Guarantee and Evaluation and the Register of professional conscientious objectors. And you, as good cultural Marxists, use neolengua to lie to the Catalans as a whole. They speak, for example, of the "Guarantee and Evaluation Committee", when in reality what we would have to talk about is the "Death Committee". A death committee that has allocated a budget of €587,000. You continue, and you have done so here this morning, repeating words such as 'worthy death, speaking of the very grave suffering that many sick suffer, but we have come here to give that cultural war to you and say that you are making further progress in approving and giving mechanisms for assisted suicide. You triviaize once again with death shielding yourself in justification, as if a justification, which, in this case, is fallacious, was enough to end the life of the person. They become a commission in the commission of the executioners and raise death to the right. That's the project you all have, leading the culture of death. Well, I say to you that our parliamentary group will do everything possible to lead the culture of life, to put an end to its policies of ending the suffering and exploring ways that, even if they are costly and difficult, we can put to the Catalans as a whole. You, as I said, despise life. They deny the necessary alternatives that many sick people cry day after day of their long illness. You deny the dignity of every person because it is what it is. What's more, you have the defachability and shame of handing out dignity cards according to the people or the disease you suffer. You are scorning the most important good and pillar of every person, which is life. And that's why we have a moral obligation to give cultural war to all of you. They started promoting abortion, ruled out children with some malformation, with some disability, even, without dispensing, discard children with Down syndrome daily. They continued to do so with our elders in the midst of the pandemic, supplying sedatives because we couldn't take care of everyone. Stop instrumentalizing the pain of so many sick, do not use the sick. We really want to protect life and we want to promote laws that guarantee a life in quality, support for the sick, care for caregivers, care for the whole environment of the sick, and that means allocating resources, and that those sick do not feel burdens, because that is what you generate, that those sick feel burdens for their caregivers and for their families. For we want to carry with those sick people, to allocate more resources for their care, so that they do not suffer throughout their illness and who live in quality, and that they can die accompanied, without suffering, and that is something that none of you have raised in this rostrum, which is to invest in palliative care, in fighting for example for palliative care to become a medical specialty in our nation, in Spain, and in our region as well, in Catalonia. How will the sick not despair if they do not have the necessary support and financial resources? There are sick people, like Jordi Sabate, for example, sick with ALS, who spends more than fifty_ thousand euros annually to be able to live, and feels absolutely abandoned by all of you. What alternatives do they offer? The death sentence through the Guarantee and Evaluation Committee. Well, look, we will lead the culture of life, defend life from conception to natural death, and accompany all the sick who feel desperate and abandoned by all of you. Is this the society you want for your children, the culture of death? Well, let them know that they'll have us in front of them, because we'll never leave anyone behind and remember them... [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] If you leave me the president...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.159.0	I should be done, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.160.0	... to end an article in the hypocritical code, which says: "I promise to ensure with the utmost respect for human life from the very beginning, even under threat, and not to use my medical knowledge to contravene human laws. I will never give anyone deadly medicine, no matter how much they ask me, nor will I take any initiative of this kind. This is what doctors swear when they graduate. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.161.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature, the deputy Laia Estrada has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.162.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... The CUP, you know, we firmly believe that disobedience is a motor of change, and the case of euthanasia really is one of the best examples of how disobedience is a truly useful tool for social transformation and for the overflowing of coercive, retrograde political walls. And we say so because we want to start our intervention by adding to a recognition of those people who have literally laid down the body so that today the decriminalization of euthanasia is a reality. We want to start our intervention with a recognizance of people like Ramon Sampedro or María José Carrasco and Ángel Hernández, who, of course, remember that the prosecution withdrew charges against them at large, so that this law was approved by Congress. Secondly, we want to thank the tireless task of entities that have been in the grip of this struggle, that is to say, we also want to add to this task thanks to entities such as the Association for the Right to Dying Dignity, an entity that in these parts of the Catalan Countries has long since begun its task of political incidence and that allowed this Parliament to pass its own legislation on the right to live the process of death with dignity. And we recognize and appreciate the task to entities like this, and, by the way, we take advantage of it to remember that they are entities that are fundamentally driven by women, and that are not random, because the struggle for the right to die is precisely related directly to the struggle for a dignified life, and to the struggle to place the care of life, precisely, in the center of politics, a slogan that feminism has known to concretely and fill in with content. Thirdly, we want to remember what our companies have already defended in Madrid, that we are ahead of a law that is totally minimal and that it is essential to continue working so as to ensure, first of all, that all the procedures that are presented as guarantees are not a race of obstacles and that it is converted into a calvary added to those people who want to be able to choose a worthy death. We also think that we need to work to ensure that people who are clearly and objectively patented are not excluded from the right to die, but do not just meet certain requirements to be terminally ill or dependent, or that we start discussing the possibility of applying euthanasia in cases of severe mental distress. Similarly, we are critical of the law in terms of what we are debating today and voting to make it effective, and that is why we would be interested in the fact that it is dealt with as the draft law. On the one hand, we believe that the Commission for Guarantee and Evaluation could come to understand how a lack of respect for the professionalism of all the staff of health centres, midwives, nurses, lawyers who have to develop the law. We understand that the respective committees or bioethics commissions already exist at each hospital and that, in any case, evaluation can be done from other bodies. And on the other hand, we do not agree with the conscientious objection, and we want to say it clearly: when it comes to placing creations and personal ideologies in the midst of right collections we do not comply. And in this concrete case, we see how the Catholic Church kept intact the privileges that the Francoism takes and that the farce of the Transition reaffirms. There is the possibility of conscientious objection to this law just as there is to the law of amartament, because Catholic Church is a fundamental part of the 78's rule. Why is there not a register of conscientious objection in the case of judgments and judgments that do not want to apply denunciations? Why doesn't this exist? Ah, because England here is not harmed by its retrograde and reactionary belief and ideology. We have, precisely, the experience of the voluntary interruption of the pregnancy, and what we want is that the violation of this right is resolved, not that we should add a new violation of a new right as that of dying worthily. Therefore, what we are asking for, or demanding, is that it is prevented from producing objections of institutional conscience, and that if this is detected, it is rescinding the arrangements, the concerts with those hospitals that give way to the pressures of the ecclesiastical lobby. We will vote for this decree as well, and we will take advantage of it to denounce the hypocrisy of extreme right-wing parties, which fill their mouths defending the culture of life, but then deny the right to people, to everyone, to humanity being able to cover cows, or to condemn people to die in the Mediterranean. You are authentic hypocrites who are interested only in one vine and another in a rave. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.163.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can, has the word Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.164.0	Thank you, President. Well, I'd like to start my intervention with two graces. The first thanks, I think it's justice, is the Right Association to Die Dignity – there has also been reference to different groups – because for many years it has been claiming this right to drive it to the level of Catalonia, and I believe that today we are taking the first step towards the inn out of this also to Catalonia, and I think it's justice to do so. And the second is Marta Ribas, friend, also a Member of the House of Commons. I think that this intervention, for the sake of justice, should be done here, because together with other parliamentary groups, both in the Parliament of Catalonia, but also in the Congress of Deputies, where together with the Member of Parliament Escarp and also with the Member of Parliament Vergés, he moved the initiative along with the Parliament of Catalonia, as well as pioneers, because this was a right not only in Catalonia but also throughout the State, and I think it is justice to do so, and I am more convinced that this intervention would do it much better than I, and for that reason, did he want to do this thank you, right? I think we're moving on to Catalonia, too, on a right. I want to refer to this, it's a right, it's not an obligation. And ultimately, as they are not, for example, neither are other rights that are always denied from the right, but that after they end up exercising, as it is not an obligation to divorce, as it is not an obligation to the right to the LGTBI marriage, or as it is not an obligation to the right to the abortion. And the pheasist culture, isn't it? , it always talks about the dignity of life, of culture..., or of the cultural battle for life, but this happens when they are affected by their "xiringuite, for example, to their place at the table. And you have agreed, to change a place at the Bureau, not to investigate the drama of the Madrid residents. You have vetoed a commission of inquiry at the Madrid Assembly, which is the autonomous community in which you have died more opinions and lives, more than six thousand people, just to guarantee your "syringuite to the Bureau. This is you, and this is your culture of life, and this is your culture of dignity, which ends when your money comes out of your pockets. This is the fascism culture that you represent. And in short, today we are talking about a right, it is not only decriminalization, but it is the recognition of a right, and therefore it is to be guaranteed by the Generality; so, in short, to make this right complete. And I believe that, as I said before, this decree allows us to move forward at the law's inn and do so with the Guarantee and Evaluation Commission. I think it's a certainty that this space exists, that it's also with professionals who can say... obviously, they can convey their opinion. And then, it's the register of health professionals who are objectors of consciousness, which is precept because they can put the law in order. But he's made reference to it now. I think we also have a challenge, that is to say, the conscientious objection is recognized by you, but it is an individual conscientious objection, and I say to myself your words that the conscientious objector..., the conscientious objection cannot be from the center – from the center – but we have to guarantee this, because, unfortunately, it also happens to us, right? , with the right to awning, which is not guaranteed in certain centers. It is true that there is no objection to a centre, but we find ourselves, for example, with ICS hospitals where you can't exercise the right to abhorrence. And that can't happen to us with the right to euthanasia. They can't get past us. And there can be no religious order that is limiting the exercise of this right by more than you are in employers or foundations or in the direction of hospital centers, and more when these receive public resources. And this is the phone book we have, which we're going to have to fill out this right because anyone at the Catalan level from any hospital, if you want to, can access this right. So, I think we're taking a step forward. I believe that, in the end, we are moving forward and Catalonia is moving forward in the right, the State is moving forward in the right. And ultimately, I think today we all can also say that we are a better country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.165.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Matías Alonso, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.166.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament... First of all, this decree has nothing to do with the government's or this Parliament's initiative, we are before a decree of law, on 13/2021, of 22 June, which regulates the Catalan Guarantee and Evaluation Commission and the register of health professionals objectors of awareness in the development of the Organic Law 3/2021, of 24 March, of regulation of euthanasia. A law that was approved at the Congress thanks to the Liberal vote, to the vote of Ciutadans. A decree law which, like all those of this Government, is promulgated on behalf of the king, a decree law which has been promulgated to develop chapter five, "Guarantee and Evaluation Commission, of the Chartered Organic Law, which dictates the basic standards to regulate for each of the Spanish self-governments of this Guarantee and Evaluation Commission and the register of health professionals subject to conscience. In concrete terms, the law decree is related to articles 17, "Creation and composition; 18, "Functions", and 19, "Deure de secrete, and also with the unique transitory provision that marks the legal regime of guarantee and assessment commissions until it has a proper internal order regulation, and with the fourth final provision, which refers to the fact that the organic law enters into force at the three-month period of the publication to the BOE, which was produced on March 25, 2021, carried out by article 17, which contemplates the creation of commissions, which entered into force on March 26 of the publication to the BOE. This validation debate is an exhibition of the lack of management capacity of the Government of the Generality. It is a clear demonstration of the government's lack of due diligence in legislating even though it is by the urgent way of the decree that important questions affecting – I hope it is only a matter of time – a part of Catalan citizenship. I said, "I hope it's only a short time and, in fact, we'd be happy that you didn't affect anyone. But the lack of due diligence is evident in the fact that the decree passed by the Executive Council on 22 June came into force the same day that it was published in the official newspaper of the Government of Catalonia on 25 June 2021. Why am I talking about little diligence? So when the government moves to create the Catalonia Guarantee and Evaluation Commission and the register of health professionals objectors of consciousness, it does just the day that the three_months of the publication to the BOE of the Organic Law 13/2021 are completed. That is to say, the Government's law decree on the creation and functioning of the Guarantee and Evaluation Commission is published on the last day of the term, the same day that the totality of the law comes into force. And this is also the main lack of due diligence on the part of the Government of the Generality, and more concretely of the Department of Health: the decree enters into force one day after the entry into force of Article 17 of the Organic Law which provides that the guarantee and assessment commissions – all, Catalan too – must be created within three months of the entry into force of this article, i.e. the end of the publication and entry into force of the decree on June 25, 2021. I'm on my way to prorogation, a little more, and we're on our way to prison. When has this Guarantee and Evaluation Commission been created effectively? The same counselor told us last week. Clearly out of line, between fifteen and twenty days late. Has the register of health professionals objectors of consciousness been created before the entry into force of the organic law? Of course not, of course not. In this sense, and to the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans – very important – has the necessary training and dissemination been made so that they can register as objectors the health professionals who want to do so? The Organic Law 3/2021, regulating euthanasia, would have liked us much more than it had been called "regulation of dignified death", regulates a new individual right. With this Spanish law comes to form part of the world's most advanced countries in the recognition and protection of individual rights introducing the regulation of this right to a worthy death. A very narrow group of nations, only the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg in the European Union and Canada to the rest of the world, together with Spain, regulate this individual right. I have said that we would be pleased to see that we have said'regulation of dignified death', and that is what must be guaranteed, but we must also take care that terminal ills, because of palliative cures, have a dignified and humane transposition without unnecessary sufferings resulting from poor attendance. And this is the real challenge that we have in Spain as one of the most advanced companies in the right of the European Union and the world: to ensure that no one wants to die for lack of quality assistance or resources in order to live on. Yesterday late in Jordi Sabaté, malalt terminal d'ELA, pullava to Twitter referring to the law of euthanasia: « Adopting the law before passing a law that gives help to be able to continue living and to be able to face the cost of care is to start making the house on the roof and a crime against life. We will be very loving; put thread to the needle.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.167.0	And finally on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the words of Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.168.0	Yes, thank you, President. We are ahead of the autonomous development of a law that we do not share and, consequently, the vote against is already advancing. Basically also because when it is reactively legislated on such a delicate subject, it is voluntarily renounced to seek wider consensuss only in order to be able to signify with the adversarial saying, and when this happens, worth redundancy, things happen, and they are always negative. First: the concept of palliative cures, which is an absolutely indisputable right, is not developed in an adjunct way – about this belief that it could agree with everyone – so it turns out that it is not covered. Two: there are legal loopholes in relation to justice about the right to life; this is extraordinarily difficult and will bring problems, not only of parties or administrations, but also of individual complaints, which will be absolutely legitimate. Thirdly, there is no such broad consensus as all of you have referred to, neither of good, nor political, nor social, nor scientific. The World Medical Association, which groups more than two million doctors, has pronounced itself against it; the Official College of Metges of Spain, the Spanish Committee of Bioethics, which was not even consulted, are the most obvious proof. But above all – and I already know that this is a subject on which there are many opinions, but I think we have evidence in the past – that the door is opened to practices of dubious morality, beyond the religious confession that each professes or even even if he is agnostic or directly atheist. And I explain myself: to place in some concrete people, whatever it is, the ability to decide whether or not a life is worthy of being viscous open the door to which it has passed in Holland, absolutely exhilarating practices that should shame anyone who defends with frivolity and with the joy that has been done here, as if it were a celebration, when we are talking about something extraordinarily delicate. It is oblivious, when it speaks with such joy of this theme, that the first obligation of the public powers must always be, as the first option, to protect life, and not to let chance or a given for certain, when this is to be proved, good will of seconds who, what you see to know – I have just spoken of the case of Holland – that which can pass with the future to life. I sincerely believe that many people who, in fact, voted for what they voted for today, disagree with the question, the same way I assume that in my party there are different positions on this matter. I think that doing this celebration, like you guys today, worries me a lot, and I'm very afraid that the future will give us reason and that we'll have to contemplate things, like what I said before Holland, faster than we think.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.169.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. [[Pause.]] We're calling it a vote. As the Deputy of the Joint Group has not spent, has not spent all his time, we will wait for everyone to come to their seats so that we can proceed to the vote. [[Long break.]] According to Rule 158.3 of the Rules of Procedure, it will now be understood in the vote that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes denied are in favour of its derogation. Let us then proceed to the vote on the validation of Decree Law 13/2021. One moment; I didn't say the vote was starting, one moment. ( The President ) The vote begins. With the result of the vote, with 118 votes in favour and 13 votes against, the Decree Law 13/2021_has been validated. And, according to Rule 158.4 of the Rules, once the law decree has been validated, I ask the chamber if there is any parliamentary group that wants to process this decree as a bill. Yes, ma'am...? (Pause.) Mrs. Estrada tells us that she wants it to be passed on as a bill. Therefore, we are now voting whether to proceed with the bill or not. It is understood, once again, that the votes claimed are in favour of processing as a bill of law and that the votes denied are in the opposite sense. The vote begins. The vote was 9 votes in favour, 117 against and 6 abstentions. Therefore, having regard to the outcome of the vote and in accordance with Rule 158.4 of the Rules, Decree 13/2021_is validated and will not be treated as draft law. [[Decree-Law No 14/2021 of 22 June 1994 amending Law No 10/1994 of 11 July 1994 of the Police of the Generalitat - Mossos d'Esquadra, so as to introduce it as a criminal offence of certain laying down ducts and the establishment of the description of the elements integrating the uniformity of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, and amending the seven-year transitional provision of Law No 3/2008 of 23 April 2008 of the exercise of the professions of the sport, in order to leave the validity of paragraphs 1 and 3 of this Law pending]] [[203-00004/13]] We turn to the next item on the agenda, the fifth item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the validation of the Decree of 14/2021, of 22 June, which amends Law 10/1994_of 11 July, of the Police of the Generalitat - Mossos d'Esquadra, so as to introduce the characterization as a violation of certain layout ducts and the establishment of the description of the elements that integrate the uniformity of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, and for which the seven-year transitional arrangement of Law 3/2008, of 23 April, of the exercise of the professions of the sport to leave the validity of the 1 and 3 of this law to stand. First of all, according to Rule 158.2 of the Rules, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior, will intervene to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. You've got the word, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.170.0	President... deputies and deputies, this decree has four articles and we already have three objectives. The first – and perhaps we would say that the main – is to integrate into the disciplinary regime of the Police of the Generality - Mosos d'Esquadra cases of LGBT-phobic discrimination and cases of sexual and moral settlement. In fact, it is to adapt a law, to adapt the law 11/2014 planned to guarantee the rights LGTBI and to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia and to explicitly include as punishable cases, such as infringing, cases of sexual assimilation by reason of sex, sexual orientation and gender identity, moral assimilation and other types of discrimination, and to integrate into the disciplinary regime this existing legislation adapting it, as I said, to the law to which I referred and also to the application of the law of equality and discriminatory treatment of 2020. It's just that there are sanctioning elements so much within, between company members of the company, as well as with third parties, with citizens with whom agents have a deal, a relationship. It means that this has been approved by the Police Council, that is to say, it is not an invention only of the Government or a proposal only of the Government, but it has been fixed to the corresponding table and to the Police Council, as you know, among others, so the police unions participate. It is not the first action to be taken from the inside to combat sexual settlement and LGBT-fobic crimes, and also against settlement; it goes from the moon and there have been many advisors, many governments... and also with the participation of many deputies, from the code of police ethics to the approval of the protocol of prevention, detection and action, and in the resolution of situations of sexual settlement by reason of sex or sexual orientation, or in the realization of the annual Memoir of hate crimes and discrimination to the police, or so many other actions, such as the interlocution with the prosecution respects this type of crime, or participation in formation – that this is also very much the case of the government of the very large-scale government in this field. The Office of Hate and Discrimination Crimes has been created and a unit of equality has also been created, and so the expertise of a number of agents, in particular fifteen agents and in the future we go further, in the specific training for the control of hate crimes. It seems to us that it is a reasonable, sensible, necessary measure – in fact, I would say, it would be essential – and that it was also very well attached to the mark of the police table. This would be one of the first elements that implies this modification, this royal decree. The second is uniform. [[You're looking for money.]] I decreed the law, yes, yes. The second is uniform. So far, in order to modify the uniformity of the law, it is necessary to amend this decree. It seems to us that what is most reasonable is to incorporate what can be done through an order, because they change the needs permanently and, therefore, to better adapt the uniformity of the body we seem to be more reasonable to do so in an agile way and not with delays so slow to make uniforms safer, more comfortable, more adaptable to the needs of the agents today. And finally, Article 4 refers to the moratorium on the sanctioning part of the Register of Rescuers, a moratorium of one year later. They know that the law requires, as a rule, that pools that do not have rescues be sanctioned and registered in the Rescue Register. This, for many installations, is easy; for others, it is more complicated, especially in small municipalities. Then there is also a certain insistence on the part of these, therefore, that there is a moratorium for a year and what is actually done is this, with the compromise to regulate it on the part of the Presidency Council – so it has been explained, by the General Secretary of Sport – to regulate it in a much clearer, much clearer way, so that the later of the moratoriums that in this sense is fanciful. These are the three modifications I'm putting in, so simple and short, the shortest I can. And thank you very much, President, the Lords and Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.171.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Then the parliamentary groups will intervene to fix their position and in this round of words, as agreed also at the later Board of Spokesmen, there will be a maximum time of five minutes per group. Now the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Ramon Espadaler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.172.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, in fact, I begin as the Counselor ended: it is a simple, short decree that says tremendously sensible things. Therefore, already the advances that our favorable vote will have in all its extremes. But we would like to take advantage of the process to make some reflections and to share them with the chamber, and even some proposal. They lead us to modify the law of the police in the two aspects that have been pointed out; the subject of uniformity, absolutely nothing to say, does not mean that we complicate our life more and that we do it in a simple way in order to be able to adapt uniformity to the needs of the body of all perspectives. Therefore, absolutely nothing to say, vote in favour. And the law... and also in the matter of the missing. Here we would like to reflect, and that's the next one. The government – and we were witnesses to it in its first appearance at the committee – fills the mouth of the local police, to the extreme that even they have created a specific direction of local police, which we were going to applaud, we absolutely agree. They haven't named the owner yet, but they call us attention and we believe that it is a point of lost opportunity, and here the proposal, the fact that what they set up in the sanctioning regime to deprive these ducts, which are dubious, and that they are even more criminal, so on the issue of missing in the body of Mossos d'Esquadra we lose the opportunity to do so also in the law of local police. And here it seems, therefore, that there is – let me 'hoddle with this clarity' a certain failure on the part of the Government. It creates a general direction, but it is not thought when it is down to reality in local police. And so, in this sense we do ask the Government to do also, to promote, to use another law decree as heterogeneous as this one that carries us, that from the rescues to the uniformity of the body of Mossos d'Esquadra passing through the ducts and by the characterization of the ducts in the body of Mossos d'Esquadra, that it does not take advantage of another and do exactly the same because the rule, the characterization of the faults is exactly the same with some small exception, which has nothing to do with what we are talking about in the law of local police, which is also a law of the Generality, 10/94, and the law of the Police of the Generality - Cossos de Mossos d'Esquadra, which is 16/91. It's to step this up and put it down, so we'll also talk with more authority and with more knowledge of the cause of the local police and the law of the police system. So let's match them to everything we can do, and we can do that. Therefore, this is the proposal. Regarding the other great scope, which is the modification of the law of sport, man, yes, to make a critical reflection on the government. The law of the sports professions was approved in 2008, it was amended in 2011 and two years after the amendment or thirteen years after its promulgation, we follow the inefficiency of the same law respect a concrete collection, which is the rescuers. If they read the decree and the memorandum, which is impeccable in everything they have done, they say: "We end up making a three-month extension to avoid having to punish those people who practice as helpers in the pools if they have not been registered in the register that establishes this law. Therefore, we make a moratorium of this sanction. Home, I think that's to take the tangentially thing and that the government should have the courage to stand up because this law doesn't work. Why hasn't it worked so far? Why, thirteen years later, do we still have to make a three-month extension? For three months, because capdavall is until September. I'm sure, and as good as I'm wrong, that one year from now we'll probably be back on the same track. I think there are other issues of substance. There is no explicit willingness of rescuers to fail to comply with a law not aimed at a registry. There's a certain insecurity of funds and lack of stability in these places of work. There are more problems than they can solve simply by saying: "Listen, now we won't be fined by September. And, as of October, what are we going to do? I think that this is a topic, which is not your Home Counsel, but it touches on the government in any case – and here I see the head of the Presidency – so I think it has to be faced in another way. That's a piece. We will support him because we have no interest in punishing those rescues who will do their job well, but who have not pointed themselves in a register, but we do ask them, or, who correct the law of local police in the same sense and, two, who take it more seriously and attack the deep theme of the rescues of the swimming pools. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.173.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the paragraph of the deputy Núria Picas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.174.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, conseller, deputies and deputies. Today we validate this decree which carries various modifications that, from the Parliamentary Group of Esquerra, we consider to be useful. In the first place, for what it does to the disciplinary regime applicable to members of the Mossos d'Esquadra body, the Government proposes to extend the list of very difficult gaps that can be produced between the body taking into account the rules in force in the matter of equality and equality of gender and law to guarantee the rights of LGBTI and to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia. In this sense, cases of sexual assimilation due to sex, sexual orientation, identity of gender and moral assimilation and other types of discrimination are involved. This change is more than necessary to meet the multiple discriminations that are due in time and that can be addressed within the body of Mossos d'Esquadra in order to ensure the correct protection of all people working in the body. Therefore, as the Councillor has said, we have very clear objectives and objectives. We are talking about the implementation of more guarantees and working conditions and this is an exemplary show of the reflex that the body must be respected to society. We have always claimed the need to advance towards a society free of discrimination and precisely the body of Mossos d'Esquadra, as a guarantor of the exercise free of rights and freedoms, as it is also endowed with internal tools necessary to combat the possible discrimination or criminal actions that are perpetual. And also, as Mr. Counsellor mentioned, reasonable, sensible and necessary measures such as creating this unit of hate crimes between the body. In the second place, the decree takes modifications respecting the uniformity of the body. We understand that, for proper functionality and operationality of the body, they must have the necessary tools to be able to adapt to the development of their service. They're necessary changes and we find it reasonable and agile that it's plotting an order. As we have always defended the personal image, which develops a very important role in the perception that the citizenry of the security bodies has with the corresponding identification in the uniformity, giving this transparency of the body, legal security and exemplarity. In short, practical bonuses. Thus, the work situation in which the Squadron Mosses have worked at the length of this confinement places the clear need to be able to administratively facilitate the acquisition of PPE or we elements that guarantee the individual and collective security of the Mosses Cos. For what you're doing on the subject of the moratorium, I hope, Mr. Swordler, that you're wrong and that the year you see we don't have to see 'nbag here again in this Faristol to put back pieces, as you very well said, huh? We believe that it is absolutely essential that the necessary legislative, regulatory and labour changes are carried out in order to reverse this situation and to ensure the continuity of the service with the quality level and the appropriate working conditions for the workers. Certainly, it's been a long time since we've been putting up moratoria, and we've been putting ourselves on the market – it's a compromise. In fact, the issue of rescuers..., it's been a long time since 2016 that they have been running this problem – with some courses that I think in a way for a three-month job are very long – we're talking about seven-hundred-hour courses. They are students who..., before these courses are done in a hundred hours and the heads of the week so can be combined with their studies; now they are seven hundred hours and, moreover, they must be registered at ROPEC, the Official Register of Professionals of Sport in Catalonia. Therefore, the course is very good, it's a very interesting course and it's very extensive for all the guys and girls who want to do this profession, but in the end they don't aim at it; there's a lot of low participation. Therefore, we think that we have a solution, in addition to these courses, most of which are in the metropolitan area, also in Salou – I understand that he is a fan of Sant Joan de Vilatorrada – but we also need to think about the rest of the territory, places like the Upper Ribagorça, the Aran Valley, the Cerdanya either..., these people who may want to opt for this job in the summer don't have much to do with me. So we have to save it. Now we're saving it quickly with this moratorium, but I think we need to set it up, and we need to work, because it's a problem that we've been flushing for too long, and we're hoping that the year is coming we won't see each other here again. Solutions? I'm sure we'll find it, because we need it for our beaches, our swimming pools and our safety. All right, all right, As the Lord Counselor has said, compromise to regulate it. And through the Office of the President and the General Secretary of Sports, we are sure to put a thread in the needle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.175.0	Thank you very much. He then has the word, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Deputy Joan Carles Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.176.0	Thank you, President. Counselors... well, very short, because practically everything has been said, as Mr. Swordler and Companion Picas have commented. On Article 1 of the royal decree, we have a general _mark, which is the Law 17/2015, of effective equality between men and women; Law 11/2014, to guarantee the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex, and the Committee of Safety and Health of the Body of Squadron, which approved the protocol for the prevention, detection and action and resolution of situations of sex determination. Therefore, we have the mark, it had to be made concrete. Therefore, totally agree, counselor, with the reform that is proposed, since they are actions and attitudes that ensure and pose in security the Squadre Moss Cos and that, moreover, they are actions that if they occur they are inadmissible in a modern police cos as we pretend to follow the Squadre Mosss. With regard to Articles 2 and 3, respect the uniformity of squadron movements, therefore, it is clear that it must be an agile system. If anything has shown us the pandemic it is precisely that there are very important deficiencies, very structural deficiencies that we need to correct, but that, more than that, there are deficiencies in the day-to-day that must also be corrected. And one was this..., it's not understandable that a person for the fact that there's a pandemic can't put on a mask because you have to wait for a decree to tell him, or a person who needs an EPI or gloves has to wait for a decree to put on the gloves in a cold age, for example. Therefore, totally in agreement with this new contribution that is made by this law decree. With regard to the reform and suspension of sanctions on the issue of rescuers, we are mayors who are very direct, and mayors of small towns like my own still more rightly. Therefore, I join in the cry of my predecessors before the rostrum: let's put it back. We put it back because, in my concrete case... I'll explain it to you. We opened the pools on June 20th; until June 17th we didn't have confirmed the rescuers. Clearly, we're from a year of pandemic where we couldn't open pools. This one, for the second year, we found ourselves with the possibility of not opening pools because of a process that in many cases can be even bureaucratic, and we're left with it. More than just the reality of small people like mine and, more than that, the reality of a people of the Segria, that we are the paella of Catalonia, in this case, so it is still harder. For the second year, there was no need to open the pools for us, for our children and for their families, a serious problem. Not only from a point of view of mental salvation, but also from a point of view of development of the very activity of a small municipality like mine. We must, therefore, understand the compliment of the legal requirements. However, it should be noted that this legal requirement does not have an impact on a problem of lack of professional helpers who are old, some years ago, for the safety of our lives, especially, as I mentioned earlier, of our children and children. Territori is this, too: to promote the survival of the realities of the small peoples of our country. The rescuers exercised teachers, friends, companions, trainers, and this task went beyond the main obligation as professionals. Therefore, recognition of the figure of the rescuer and his need for infinity of middle and small people from all over the territory. Let us hope, therefore, as has been said in this rostrum, that this will be the last moratoria and that we will resolve among all the structural lack of rescues in our swimming pools. They are basically complaining about the lack of social recognition of the figure as a rescuer. You serve this intervention in this forum for an explicit recognition in your pocket, as I mentioned earlier, for social function and even developing in small towns like mine. We're carrying dead people for offenses this summer. The question is, how many of us would you bring without help? Surely the answer would be helpful. Therefore, to all the rescuers and professionals who exercise this task, all thanks. Therefore, we support the decree presented here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.177.0	Next, and on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Sergio Macián, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.178.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, a decree-law on three very different issues has been brought to this Chamber for consideration today. Firstly, as has already been said, the modification of the disciplinary regime of Mossos d'Esquadra contained in Law 10/94 of the Police of the Generalitat - Mossos d'Esquadra. On the other hand, a modification of this law also to make the introduction of changes in the uniform of the mossos d'ésquadra faster and, finally, a moratorium on the sanctioning part of the registration of rescuers in order to facilitate the recruitment of rescuers this summer. First of all, there are no extraordinary and urgent reasons for the first two legal amendments to this decree. The amendment of a law of the year 94 in the field of disciplinary regime that has been in force for twenty-seven years is not understood to have to be done urgently by decree. And it is that the Government of the Generalitat has become addicted to the decrees laws. Catalonia is the community that has issued the most decrees laws throughout Spain, the one that has used the most of this legislative mechanism, which involves dictating rules with the rank of law by the executive and not issued by Parliament. They have turned the exceptional into something routine, they have taken pleasure in this by legislating outside Parliament. You betray the basic principle of parliamentarianism by abusing this legislative mechanism that changes the extraordinary reasons of urgent need for reasons of political convenience. Therefore, we understand that the first two issues dealt with in the Decree-Law should have been dealt with as a draft ordinary law, allowing this Parliament to carry out its legislative task and to introduce amendments or modifications to the proposed text and not to present it as a tragala by decree-Law. [[Widow's remorse.]] As for the most important issue that is introduced in the decree law, the modification of the disciplinary regime of the Mossos d'Esquadra, we note a poor legislative wording in the proposed amendment. It is proposed to introduce, in Article 68.1, a subparagraph (ba) reading: "Assessment by reason of origin, racial, ethnic, religion, belief, disability, age, moral and sexual assimilation and by reason of sex, sexual orientation or gender identity. You copy the articulation of the Organic Law 12/2007, of the disciplinary regime of the Civil Guard, and the Organic Law 4/2010, of the disciplinary regime of the National Police Corps, and we think very well that you copy, but you have to do the right thing. The Organic Law of Disciplinary Regime of the Civil Guard states that "any act involving discrimination or harassment on grounds of racial, ethnic, religious or belief, disability, age, sexual orientation or sex is a very serious offence. So far you have almost literally copied it, but the precept continues: "Language, opinion, place of birth, neighbourhood or any other personal or social condition or circumstance. On the other hand, in the wording introduced by you in the law of the Catalan police, first of all, you eliminate as a very serious offence harassment on the grounds of language or opinion. It is envisaged in the case of discrimination, but not in the case of harassment. Funny, they copy the other reasons, but they delete the one from the tongue. And so it turns out that the harassment of a mosso d'ésquadra by his commandos to use, for example, the Castilian would not constitute a punishable disciplinary offence, which we have openly denounced from now on. Nor shall they introduce a final clause for the closure of the type of harassment for any other personal or social condition or circumstance. I repeat: this is provided for with regard to discrimination, but not with regard to harassment, where harassment on account of language or other circumstances not expressly stated in the precept could be included. On the other hand, they introduce in the norm other concepts, such as that of gender identity, unknown in any other sanctioning regulations of our environment. It is not provided for in..., whether national, Basque or of the Foral Police of Navarre, and it is a discussed concept, subjective and individual self-perception, not objective, unlike what happens with sex or sexual orientation, which are; improper of a sanctioning law, because sanctioning laws are not designed to impose ideologies, but to preserve the general interest. And, on the other hand, you, thirdly, refer expressly to moral harassment and sexual harassment, but you forget to mention a very important type of harassment today, such as work harassment, which is not covered by the precept. Labour harassment refers to the practice exercised in the field of work, which involves subjecting an employee or official to psychological pressure to cause his or her job marginalization. Failure to complete the concept of harassment, due to the flagrant omission of labour harassment, can turn this precept into indeterminate, something that our courts have not tired of repeating, which is a frequent source of problems. So by understanding that this legal change should have been the subject of the first part, in its first two questions, of draft law and not of decree law, and also by the defects of legislative technique to which we have referred, we will vote no to the validation of this decree law. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.179.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, has the words of Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.180.0	Well, thank you, President. Deputies, well, we start from the conception that the society in which we live is profoundly racist and patriarchal and that, therefore, racist and patriarchal attitudes and racist and patriarchal attacks are reflected in all the institutions of this society. We believe, therefore, that solutions are fundamental and structural changes, that they are fighting patriarchy, that they are fighting racism and that they are passing from this unequal model that is capitalism and that encourages it to a model of equality and, therefore, leaving all these structural inequalities in between. From here on, it seems to us that it added that it is done through this decree law for which it does to the sanction of behaviors of racist discrimination, LGBTI-phobic discrimination, etc. it is interesting and it is positive. Although we are not starting from a maximalist position in the area of punitiveism, we believe that it should be made clear that in an area where there are also racist and patriarchal attacks and behaviours, such as in the area of police, which, moreover, are accentuated by a situation of corporatism and lack of transparency, it is necessary not to put a price on this type of action, but it is because, therefore, there is an answer. In short, we believe that this element is key, this common element that we will also, surely, later on, continue to comment through the debate on the creation of a police model commission to monitor who is watching them, and, therefore, to establish control measures to tax the duties of acting unpunished in the exercise of police functions, and, therefore, using the abuse of power, often by falling patriarchal and falling racist. For what it does to the last part of the decree, we add to all the petitions that is made to find a solution in the field of rescues. We would like to recall that in October 2020 various resolutions were adopted to both the Commissions of Work and the Enterprise respect the problems that existed in the field of rescue workers, and that lead to the current moratorium, if I am not mistaken, per se, or set or eighth year as a result, and these resolutions marked three questions that seem to us to be of use, that it was to establish a table of the sector to find solutions, that they were to make a plan of work to give answers to the shortcomings of the sector, and that they were also to study a modification of Law 3/2018. It seems to us that it is of fundamental importance that this moratorium is not produced again because, for one band, we understand that there may be a need for you to rescue all the pools, but it is also not possible to leave this margin of discretion, which in many cases results in a precariousness of the sector. Therefore, we will vote in favour of the validation of this decree. It doesn't seem right to us, and we'd like to move further away from it, and in any case, we'd also propose that you can work as a law to make relevant statements. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.181.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.182.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor, will advise, well, this decree, as has been said, therefore, has basically three great objectives that we share, which we believe are necessary, and therefore we will vote in favour of them. You're leaving 'em for some considerations, huh? The first is that the first two objectives are to amend Law 10/1994, which is the law of the police of the Generalitat, Mossos d'Esquadra, and the fact is that we know that this is an expired law, a law, therefore, that it is about to be done thirty years ago and that they have passed here, so a good name of advisers promising a new law of the police system of Catalonia – we understand that we are at the beginning of the legislature, but we trust, therefore, that in this legislature we can effectively bring forward this new law of the police system of Catalonia. The second element is that, in fact, in the very presentation of the decree's motto, therefore, it makes explicit reference, therefore, to what it does to the nine typifications that are introduced and that, obviously, therefore, we share, but it makes reference to two laws that are of year 14 and of year 15, and, therefore, we also understand that here, therefore, the work that we have done now had to do, therefore, some time ago. And in any case, therefore, this certainly did not diminish the need to be able to make this incorporation of the typifications as infringing these layout ducts for LGTBI-fobic reasons, for racist reasons, for genera reasons, so that we understand that they are every time more necessary, and that, unfortunately, we see, therefore, as also in the body of the Mossos d'Esquadra is reproduced, and as we have seen, therefore, also in different episodes in time, and, therefore, the need to be able to incorporate these typifications as infringements. And the third element in relation to the modification of the law of the police of year 94, is to say, therefore, that man, since we propose to modify the law for necessary questions, such as these typifications of infractions or as is the question of uniforms, therefore, that we also consider necessary, therefore, we understand that there are also other elements that we can take advantage of and modify from this law. Obviously, therefore, we understand that it is necessary to amend the law in its conjunction, but that there are elements that are urgent to amend. And I'm thinking, for example, with everything you have to do with the use of certain highly-leasive police tools and techniques, such as the use of launchers, such as the use of carousel technology, or thinking about the presence of anti-disturbing units in the denunciations of vulnerable families or the need to create an independent mechanism for evaluation, control and accountability of police actions. We'll have a chance to talk about this in the order of the day of today's sitting, but I don't mean to say that man, that we could also modify the law of the police for specific questions like this. For what it does to the contents, basically, therefore, we have already commented on the need for incorporation of the infractions, the adequacy, therefore, of what it does to the question of the uniformity of the body. And I left a few last points for what he does to the third objective of this decree, which is what he has to do with the question of the rescuers. We will vote for it, but it is true, and as it has already been said, therefore, that it is a new piece, a new piece that we are going to repeat again a year ago. So, one year ago we were here doing the same thing, two years ago, too, and so, right? and, therefore, the question is that the problem of the arrest has never been attacked, and that, well, we are ahead of a sector that, in fact, is considered to be a sport, but that in reality it is not at all, that it should be considered in the framework of civil protection, we understand ourselves, and not the activities of others, and that it is a sector or activity that does not have a specific regulation and that does not have a legal framework that would be as good as it would be. And, in this sense, we believe that we need to put order to a sector that is highly pre-characterized, too, but we think we need to repeat it, don't we? One sector, too, has been said, little valued, and, therefore, that it effectively values, and that, moreover, it is located in the current legal framework. And, therefore, what it would be like to do, as in fact, has made other territories that have a reality similar to ours of a lot of sunshine and plagiarism, such as the Canaries or like the Balearics, where they have created a specific regulation worked with local administrations, because it is certain that this problem specifically affects local administrations and small and medium-sized municipalities. And, ultimately, a regulation that is regulated and that establishes or establishes basic requirements for the rescue of Catalan swimming pools and platges, and putting a lot of emphasis on two elements that for us are fundamental, that one is to avoid the working conditions of precariousness that we currently have in the sector, that we know they are extreme, and the second is all that makes reference to the issue of training, and therefore to adapt training to the functions they develop. All this, therefore, we will vote in favour of the law decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.183.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Member of Parliament Matías Alonso has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.184.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, let us debate and vote on another decree of the Government, which is not a royal decree, but in any case promulgated also on behalf of the king, on June 22, 14/2021, which amends two laws of the Generality approved in his day for this Parliament and which the Government has decided to amend for this way. First of all, to make it clear that the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group does not seem to us to be the best way to introduce legislative amendments. The Government has other means that, from the point of view of democratic quality, they are much better because they have more and better guarantees that the norms, amended laws, do not only conform to the will and needs detected and prioritized by the Government, but also the will of the autonomic legislative power, in this case the parliamentary groups that conform to this Parliament with representation of the city of Catalonia. Nor does it seem to us that the way of the decree is the most adjunct, because this way has to respond to some urgent need for legislative change, and it is not the case either of the changes that are introduced. But I have already referred to a debate before the poor quality, the lack of management and legislative impetus on the part of the Government of the Generality. There is no urgency taken from the urgency that has been repeated for a long time, many years ago, to leave aside the distances 1 and 3 of Article 13 of Law 3/2008, of 23 April, of the exercise of the professions of the sport; an urgency of last minute that the succeeding governments of the Generality, as they are in building structures of state that allows them to raise their republic of the ice cream of desserts, have not been able to resolve for the legislative way to present a new draft law that gives answer to the recurring needs to which they must give answer this modification by way of decree. But, well, we're one more time in the holy place, so let's go back to what we're used to. Things, some of them, are done, but they're always late and bad. Gentlemen of the Government, councillor, are these legislative changes necessary? We could come to terms with that. Were these legislative amendments urgent enough to initiate them under the law? Taken from the chronic need to suspend the force – and when have they been in force? , would be the question– of Article 13(1) and (3) of the Law 3/2008, of the exercise of the professions of the sport, therefore neither. Was it essential to modify the law of the decree to serve the disciplinary regime of the Squad's Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra? Not as far as we're concerned. What needs to be changed, we agree. What I need to do with urgency is to say, because of the law, no. If Law 10/1994 of 11 July 1994 of the Police of the Generalitat - Mossos d'Esquadra were to be amended, it would have been done by the way of the bill, which, as I have said, gives more guarantees to improve the law in the sense that it is proposed and above all allows the participation of all the parliamentary groups, which represent the conjunction of the city of Catalonia, in the introduction of this necessary better through the parliamentary debate. Because, we have to remember, this type of debate implies that either you agree with the content of the decree without any morning notice or you are obliged not to support it without the ability to introduce any message that can improve the initial text. You, the groups that support the government, may say that any law decree, once validated, can be processed in their parliament as if it were a bill of law. In fact, we, the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, will ask you, above all with the intention of modifying the disciplinary regime of local police as provided for in Law 16/1991. But we don't cheat on the solitaire: you, the government and the parliamentary groups that support him, what they want is to clear the parliamentary debate and pull for the right, turning into urgent everything that interests them without even being good. Logically, with these premises, we can't give support to your validation. To make it very clear: we agree that the legislative changes that are being made are necessary and necessary; we do not agree that the way to introduce them is to follow the urgency in the form of a decree, avoiding parliamentary debate. We only recognize the chronic urgency of maintaining a few more months of the moratorium that affects rescuers in water activities, a profession that should be fully regulated and that requires successive moratoriums from a long time ago. Therefore, we will not object to the validation of this decree, but we will not support it either, because to do so is to give white paper to the mismanagement of the legislative impulse faculty of this government and those who, with the same political color, have preceded it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.185.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, have the word Lorraine Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.186.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. I, the truth that very succinctly, because I believe that all the issues have already come out here. It is a decree law that, well, we share, and already advance the counselor that we are going to vote in favour. It is true, and other groups have already expressed it, perhaps the form of a decree law, because it seems to us that it was not the most appropriate, and it is true that there is an abuse by the Government of this technique, which we adopted, in some way, for reasons of urgency during the pandemic, but it seems that they have spread over time. Perhaps because of the characteristics of, a little, what comes to regulate the decree, because it could have been done through even a single law by reading, or waiting for us to the law of accompaniment of the budgets... But, well, in any case, this legislative technique has been decided. I insist that we will vote in favour of the decree. The first of the subjects to amend the Law of 94 of the Police of the Generalitat - Mossos d'Esquadra to incorporate this disciplinary regime has already been discussed. Obviously, we are in favour. It is true that these are conducts that are already defined as sanctions in other laws, such as the law on effective equality between men and women, and also the law on LGBTI rights. Well, we don't think it's wrong to bring it in here. And, as the Councillor pointed out, this amendment is also approved by the Police Council, and therefore it will not be us who oppose this. On the subject of being able to regulate aspects such as uniformity by a simple order and not having to be here making decrees and validating it for Parliament, we think it is expediting the issue. And it is clear that circumstances are also making this uniformity have to be adapted to every moment, and it is much more agile also that this can be done with a faster mechanism and that we do not have to come here to plenary. And with regard to the last of the questions, which does not have to do with Mossos d'Esquadra, which is the subject of water rescue, so, well, in this case, I do share some of the views expressed by other Members, do I not? Mr. Swordler said that maybe next year, then, we'll be back here with them. She's not the first... I hope not; the counselor says not with her head. I trust you don't. But it is true that it is not the first moratorium that we approved, that in the documentation accompanying this decree law, well, there are reasons related to the pandemic and the covid, but, of course, that has been during the previous year. The previous moratoriums we didn't have a covid and yet we're in the same one, right? The root problem comes with the subject of requirements. We should therefore reflect here. We are going to save the season because we are already on the dates of July and, therefore, it seems to us good that this is extended until the end of September, but I hope that we will have everything regulated, in conditions, and we can therefore have a sufficient number of rescuers, who are so necessary. And for my part, nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.187.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. So now we're done with the debate, we'll proceed to the vote. I recall that, according to Rule 158.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes denied are in favour of its derogation. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the validation of Decree Law 14/2021. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Let's have one last cry. [[Long break.]] So the vote begins. With 117 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 6 abstentions, the Decree Law 14/2021_has been validated. However, according to Rule 158.4 of the Rules, I ask the chamber whether there is any group that wants to be dealt with as draft law. [[Pause.]] The CUP and Citizens tell me that they want it to be passed as a bill. And, therefore, we will do the corresponding vote, I also understand that the votes in favour are votes in favour of the procedure as the bill and the votes in favour are against. The vote begins. So with a result of 29 votes in favour, 105 votes against, it's not going to process like the bill. And it is approved, as we said, the Decree Law 14/2021. [[Motion for a resolution on the reform of the Criminal Code and the freedom of Pablo Hasel]] [[250-00097/13]] Let us turn to the next item on the agenda, the item on the agenda, the motion for a resolution on the reform of the Criminal Code and the freedom of Pablo Hasel. This proposal was presented for the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Pode and the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Left. Firstly, to present the motion for a resolution, the four proposed parliamentary groups will intervene in a single two-minute intervention period for each parliamentary group; subsequently, they will do the rest of the parliamentary groups to set their positions, also for a maximum of two minutes. It has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Mr Pau Juvillà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.188.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, this July 16th is complete five months that Pablo Hasel is in prison to enforce his freedom of expression; a freedom of expression that, as it cannot otherwise be, is associated with criticism of power, a criticism of a demophobic state, such as Spanishol, which tries to silence the laws by twisting them to the fullest through crimes such as the exaltation of terrorism, the crime of insults and slanders to the crown or the crime of hatred, or by applying the shameful biting law. The Spanish State has now captivated the list of countries that most artists have retaliated for the content of their songs. Now, with the imprisonment of Pablo Hasel, the Spanish State is equated with countries like Turkey or Morocco, which also count on various artists engaged to denounce the abuses that are committed from the State. This gives more than two hundred signors of the world of cinema, music or theatre in a manifesto in defense of Pablo Hasel's freedom. Thus, positive aspects such as legislation on hate crime, a mechanism for the protection of vulnerable groups or persons against which certain discourses could lead to greater discrimination or violence, have been cynically taken to protect the repression of the state's security forces and to silence all and every disagreement. « I think I'm short shooting 26_million Spaniards, it's said in a bunch of retired soldiers, while in Madrid the fascism was hating against the most vulnerable childhood as the cause of the lack of services worthy of old age, especially of women who have been relegated to the pockets of the street and who now curse to survive with poverty pensions. Impunity for some, while Valtònyc is in exile for the lyrics of his songs. From 2011 to 2017, the name of convictions for the rise of terrorism or humiliation of Internet victims is 100_dinou. Despite this, more than half have found places from 2017 to 2018. Condemns imposed on journalists, artists and users of social networks for the National Audience have grown exponentially. The latest year that the Interior Ministry has published data on hate crimes for ideological reasons, which is 2019, is 249 before the 237 of 2018. Amnesty International has denounced in its report, 2018, "Tweet if you dare. As anti-terrorist laws restrict the freedom of expression to Spain, which, by virtue of this anti-terrorist law, the government is subject to a whole series of expressions on the Internet. He says, the same report, that, beyond these sanctions, this abuse of anti-terrorist dispositions leads people to self-censorship for suffering repression. The criminalization of such a wide range of expressions has a paralyzing effect and can create an environment in which people have to express themselves, express unpopular opinions or even come up with polemics. This limitation and reduction of the space of public and open debate, analysis and criticism represent a threat, in the longer term, to the strength of civil society and the ability to guarantee not only the right to freedom of expression, but also the defence of a whole series of human rights. There can be no expression of freedom without freedom of expression – there can be no expression of freedom without freedom of expression. Let us not say this: the European Court of Human Rights also says this when it establishes that the authorities of the democratic states must tolerate criticism, even though it may be considered provocative or insulting. You don't have to like what we can say, because we can say it – you don't have to like what we can say, because we can say it – that's what freedom consists of, and without democracy dying, they go ahead, first of all, and as a premonitoring attack, artists and civil society. Let's be alert, like a society that wants to become a republic, what kind of state do we want to be: a truly democratic state willing to accept expressions of dissent, for criticisms that follow, or a repressive and demophobic state like the Spanish state, where, as Pablo Hasel says, freedom of expression ends when you start bothering? It may repeal the articles of the Criminal Code which unfortunately still have effects on Catalans and Catalans and which obviously restrict their freedom, and it may use hate crimes to protect those who need it, not the powerful and the repressive, and it is urgent that Pablo Hasel is not in prison for another day. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.189.0	Thank you. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.190.0	Thank you, President. Well, I'm the first one I'd like to do is to thank the task of the Llibertat Pablo Hasel platform, for all the work they do, but also because without them we certainly wouldn't be here today, so defending this motion for a resolution, and, in this sense, I also want to appreciate the predisposition of all the groups proposing to reach an agreement easily in the wording of the same proposal. Well, in Comú We may be here today, presenting and defending this motion for a resolution, not because we have political or ideological affinity with Pablo Hasel, not because we agree or disagree with his tweets, with his songs, with his demonstrations. In fact, on numerous occasions, our political space and our representatives have been the target, indeed, of the criticism formulated by Pablo Hasel towards us, even a criticism that we might consider offensive to all or forms; but we are not here for this. We are here today in defense of a right that we believe in democracy as a fundamental right, which is the right to freedom of expression. Mirin, in this chamber, therefore, there are political formations founded by Francoist leaders, there is nothing to enhance totalitarian and extreme right-wing postulates, there is nothing to bring liberalism to the extreme, from an economic and individualist perspective, but they do not want to hear about collective rights and freedoms, and, of course, we do not expect the favourable vote of these three formations to a resolution proposal that is in solidarity with people repressed to express a political opinion. What, frankly, costs us hearing, therefore, is the role of the socialist party in all of this. I have to tell you that there is not enough to pass a democratic memory law, that it is a necessary law, that it is a law that we celebrate that is being passed, but with that there is not enough, it is altogether insufficient. Because if in this country there are still many people in prison for a tweet, for a song, for an artistic representation or for any other political form of protest, then we will not, in any case, have full democracy. Do not condemn it, do not plant any action to prevent this from happening, do not want to even recognize the problem, have not yet repealed the law bite, make them accomplices of this situation. And, frankly, it is hard to understand that a party like the Socialist Party, which indisputably fought for the rights and freedoms of this country against the Franco regime, which fought for democracy, we do not understand that today you are in this position where you are, because, as I say, it is not a question of ideological end, it is a question of human rights and of phonological rights. Because today was Pablo Hasel or Valtònyc, during the last few years was the independence movement, but we all know that what bothers us is political dissent, and today it's them, we can be ourselves and someday it can be you. And I'm already telling them that if you ever arrived the day that reprisals and reprisals were you had no doubt that In Comú Pode, in defense of freedom of speech, I wouldn't give you the skeleton. And it's that repression today in the Spanish State is a fact, and while there's political repression, ours won't be full democracy, I say. And we are not speaking only of Hasel, of Valtònyc ; we are also speaking, therefore, of Jordi Cuixart, of Jordi Sánchez ; of the other new political leaders condemned in the judgment of the process, among them President Forcadell ; of the new people who have had to be exiled ; of Tamara Carrasco ; of the more than a thousand wounded people on October 1, 2017, the more than three hundred during the protests of the Sentence ; of the seventy journalists wounded; of the more than three hundred people detained for political reasons since September 2017 ; of the five people who were arrested during the protests of the Sentence or of the seven journalists who were wounded; of the more than three hundred people detained for political reasons since September 2017 ; of the five people who were arrested during the protests of the Sentence ; of the seven journalists who have been arrested in the proceedings of the President of the Court ; of the President of the Court; of the President of the Court of Justice; of the Presidents They really think there's no repression in the Spanish State? I think we should recognize, all folds, that these data are a background problem and that they all have at the back of the political movement. And it's obvious that in a democracy that wants to be mature this can't hold. But we don't give it to each other, that's what. This is said by human rights entities like Amnesty International, by the Council of Europe, by many European courts. It's just that it's a scandal. I don't even know where they're coming from. Mirin, we know that before this situation, in fact, as the Council of Europe says, it is necessary to eliminate old French reminiscences from the Criminal Code. The crime of sedition is one of them, and our political formation, as you know, from the United We can, therefore, from the principles of the legislature to the Congress of Deputies, we are working and persisting because this modification of the crime of sedition is a reality. And it is true that with this it will not be enough to resolve the political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State nor to solve the difficult democratic problem that the Spanish State has with the judiciary. But you have to take steps, and that's one. And in this resolution that we are bringing here today, we are laying further steps in the same line. And here are the points 2 and 3 of the motion for a resolution. It's possible to remove from the Criminal Code the offenses of injury and slander to the crown and the institutions of the State, because..., really, huh? That is to say, in democracy, in a democracy, a family's privileges for its family is obviously a scandal; that, in addition, this family is a corrupt family and that practicing the tax evasion is already a major crime trap, but it is that above the Penal Code I protect them from criticism and that therefore today there are people in prison, so it really is an abuse of power that is truly indiscriminate and brought to the limit. I, look, so, no, we won't shut up, they won't shut us up. And who has the days counted in this country, we are not the democrats who defend freedom of speech, we are not the republicans we pose in the face of any formula of abuse of power, but who has the days counted is the monarchy and it is the Bourbon family. And to eliminate, we also say, the crime of the rise of terrorism, a crime that we have seen as clearly used as a tool of political persecution. And, thirdly, we defend that it is necessary to modify the hate crime, because what perversion, what use, what manipulation of legislation, applying it to defend, to benefit the interests of some. It is obvious that there is a crime that rules hate behaviors; the one that has no head is that this crime is used discriminatoryly just to defend the State Security Forces and Things, which is not the reason for which this crime was conceived. For all this, therefore, we are presenting this motion for a resolution. We show our solidarity with all those retaliated. We ask, as it cannot otherwise be, the immediate freedom of Pablo Hasel, the archives of all causes and amnesty. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.191.0	Thank you very much. And then, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr. Francesc of Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.192.0	Thank you, President. I allow myself a warning on a day like today, in which thirty-four public servants... have made this sense of their civilian death effective. The Court of Auditors will carry out the necessary guarantees. And, if there were any doubts as to whether the pardons were voluntary or due to the good parliamentary work and the good judicial work that has been done in Europe, today we have an exhibition. And it is that, indeed, this general cause against independence does not end. And we know it's hugely unfair for thirty-four, but I want to have a record especially for Manel Manonelles, Albert Royo and Roger Albinyana, because I've known them and worked there for all these years and they're honest public servants, like they are the thirty-four. A record for them and all our solidarity. [[Some applause.]] In addition, it was said that the Solidarity Box..., someone made a smile because it's hot, and I think today is a good day to remember that we haven't only been, we are and there, but that the Solidarity Box has collected and managed up to 14 million euros. He made a speech with a fellow Member of Parliament for a conference with a North American journalist and when she made the translation and spoke: « – Seventeen million dollars, the Catalan organised civil society to protect its people, to protect its public servants from repression? – Yes, 16_million_i_mig. You can be very proud of them. And the Court of Auditors brings us to the reality that we find ourselves. And, obviously, we will vote – because we have proposed it and cannot be otherwise – all the points of this motion, but we must be honest and we must look at the eyes and we must know that there will be no modification of any article of the Criminal Code, there will be no deletion of any article of the Criminal Code. And, as we spoke to Paul Hasel himself on March 4, when the Speaker of the Parliament was then a member of the Spanish Congress and we visited Ponent's prison in Pablo Hasel, he knew that if there were no changes and very strong sacks, this prison could go long. As in Valtònyc he knows that his exile is long. And that won't change without a sack that goes much further than a parliamentary resolution. In the same way that the government can try as hard as it wants to say it will talk about self-determination and amnesty, but the Spanish government will not speak much less about anything that does not remotely assemble into amnesty or self-determination. Because it is obvious that there is a majority of the Catalan society that wants another penal code, and it is obvious that there is a majority of the Catalan society that wants to exercise the right to self-determination, but sometimes, when we explain it that way, they are a little euphemism not to talk about what we need, and what we need to do is to make this country's independence project strong and effective. We have to say the things for his name: that the State does not want to be reformed nor wants to be democratic nor to allow our project, civic, peaceful and democratic, to carry out the mandate of the U of October, and therefore the independence of Catalonia. Because it's an obvious majority of Catalans who want independence. And that's what hurts them. That's what they want to ignore. This is our main democratic force, the political and social majority of this country in favour of independence. And if we refer to those who say that the government of the commons and socialists is the most progressive that Spain can afford, and with what great things will be done, some findings – they are not opinions, they are facts – the Spanish government and a very large and dangerous majority of the Spanish Courts have not moved a single so far because a singer comes out of prison, unjustly engaged. The Spanish government has so far not moved a word because a singer returned from exile, an unjustly sentenced singer for his letters. They have not moved a saying, as promised, so as to repeal the law bite or the digital decree. They haven't moved a word to prevent anyone from sentencing up to six times for the European Court of Human Rights to be Minister of the Interior – six sentences of the European Court of Human Rights. They did not want to investigate – I look at Mayor Munell – they did not want to investigate the storms of August 17. They did not want to close the reform of the sedition crime. This week, Spain's Minister, Mrs Rodriguez, has been listening to us, with impropie forms of democracy and with a phrase, "I hope you have learned the lesson." The concord... a minister who says that the reference is equal to imprisonment and I hope it's after the lesson. By luck, the answer came from our MEP, Mrs Clara Ponsatí, who said yesterday: "We know the lesson. It's a sign that Espanya teaches us. Spain neither forgives nor negotiates. To a few independents it is necessary to pass it, said the Clara. And neither have they moved a saying, here, socialists and commons, and we are very sorry to say, from the hand of the right and the extreme right, to cause the Bourbon to stop living at the king's side and at the cost of all, to Abu Dhabi. So much did they have for the runaways and for once have a real runaway, a real runaway, and they do nothing but avoid bringing him before justice and guaranteeing him public protection and a life of luxury. Here, entertaining, jutgen and fan scars of public servers, faithful to the mission of the Cos of the Mosso d'Esquadra, protect President Puigdemont, the president of Catalonia. Certainly, all the support of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia to Carles and Xavi. We're with you. [[Some applause.]] They are only four brushes, facts that make clear the prey of hair that means trusting in a president like Sanchez, in a government of the socialists and commons that has done nothing, absolutely nothing to improve the democratic quality deficit of the Spanish State. Even worse, they prepare a martial law menu in the form of national security law, to ensure the state of exception in times of crisis. And they're also preparing an audiovisual model that doesn't respect Catalonia's own communication space. Lucky they're the ones with the concord. As an admired writer said yesterday ironically: « Leave something for a VOX government and the Popular Party, that keep moving them through the right. And when they moved on to go further: to refocus the Fire Things, we've already seen at the head of Creus how nice it is that decisions are taken..., rather, that it's not taken six-cents_kilometres, or to tell us that this regularizing on the loguers is very good to bring it to the program but king to legislate in your parliaments. And in this panorama is there a solution? And as long as there's been a solution. The solution is called the U of October mandate, the U of October formula, is called independence. It's called popular mobilization, it's called filling the seats and streets as they're doing at these times, right now the Turull Councillor with the march from north to south. A march that unravels the topics that say we're tired, that there's no urge, that there's no win. Mass media take care not to talk; I propose to you without apprehensions that you enter into some of the accounts of Councillor Turull, you will see what is going on every day in this country at its pace. Because popular mobilization is essential, but it is also essential that institutions are not a tap or anaesthetic for this mobilization. That they do their job, that they do it right, that they do it and make it as easy as they can day by day to the citizenry, but that they do not postpone, neither two years nor two months or two days or two minutes or two seconds the peaceful and democratic civic struggle against a state that wants to beat us, ruin us and surrender us. Because if the institutions and specifically the Government of Catalonia do not do this political work of not giving up, of not asking forgiveness, of not invisiating the general cause against independence, then it is when we discover that in this too was right President Tora, when he said that autonomy could become a problem, could become a tool of espanyolitization. But that won't happen. As Jordi Pessarrodona said before a full Vic square, if there are policies there or here that want to fall asleep, we won't let them sleep. And we, Together for Catalonia, are also in this Government to be the guarantee that this does not happen; to make the Government of Catalonia remain a lever of change and engine for independence. From today, from now on, without excuses, without any determination. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.193.0	Thank you very much. Further on and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word M.P. Pau Morales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.194.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Members of Parliament. I'll start with a previa, too. This dilluns were jutjaven in Pol Serena, company, friend, independence activist. I could have touched many, thousands, and, in fact, here, those who preceded me have listed the different repressive cases of this general cause. But some of them touched him; he, to do for all. But they've only managed to give us more reason and more energy. From this rostrum there was who held the occurrence of titling him with "angel." I don't know if it's an angel, what I do know is that in the new country we want to build, it's a lot more hot – a lot more hot – than going to a peaceful demonstration, thinking different, or brandishing an empty water ampoule of plastic to see its vital project threatened before courts. A lot more. [[Some applause.]] For all the young people who fight, amnesty. The absolutity. You're not alone, the same way you haven't left anyone alone. And that explained why precisely, a few months ago, on his Twitter cover photo there is a mural by Roc Blackblock that the Barcelona Urban Guard had ordered to erase, they say by mistake. A mural that I defined as information, because it explains to what everyone knows, explains very clearly, however much I want to erase it, "Juan Carlos thief, in support and tribute to Pablo Hasel, demanding his freedom. Because she's in prison to say what we all know: that the monarchy is corrupt by nature, and the Bourbonism still more. They say the walls, they say the streets, they say the young people, they say the streets and they say the tertules, but still much more, they say the communication media, they start to say the Swiss justice, in fact, he recognizes it himself when he tries to make these returns to the file. This Parliament also said so on August 10, 2020. And I like to read it textually from the official butllet of the Parliament of Catalonia: "The Parliament of Catalonia – especially for those who have now added to it, from the 14th of February, that it is well that it is present the majority, the feeling of majority of this Parliament – "remembers that the Nissaga dels Borbons has been a historical calamity for Catalonia, and especially that Juan Carlos de Borbón accepted the success of General Franco, swore loyalty to the principles of the Franco regime and affirmed that the dictator rebiased the political legitimacy arising from July 18, 1936 – today more than twenty-five years ago – "in reference to the military coup perpetrated against the Second Republic of Spain. In this sense, the Spanish monarchy is the continuation of the previous rule and it is inseparable from the person of King Joan Carles, because this is how article 57 of the Constitution establishes it. Next: « The Parliament of Catalonia shows its rebuff to the Bourbon monarchy as the institution lapses, deeply corrupt, anti-democratic, heiress of the Franco dictatorship and representing the economic and political interests of the ruling elites and oligarchies of the Spanish State. That the Bourbons are thieves is not opinion, it is information, and, as much as they intend to censor, cover it, store it or store it well away or threaten this Parliament, the truth overflows on all four sides. Today, this Parliament, threatened to debate the monarchy, makes an act in just correspondence, an act of justice that, in my opinion, has worked hard to arrive, five months after the imprisonment of Pablo Hasel, and will demand freedom. Today, those who curse to fashion the word « chiringuito will defend with nails and teeth the major chiringuito of the history of Spain of the last three centuries: the Bourbon monarchy, which we do not even know what it costs us. And they will do so because if the king is looking, he is looking for the State; if the State is looking, they are looking for his privileges, and things could change for the majority. This is the only reason why you are a fan of hands and hands, a fan of juggling to try to explain how it can be that in full 21st century the only condition that allows you to agree to be head of a supposed democracy is to come from a particular family. It's impossible, it's absolutely incompatible that this happens; every time it gets passed by a few people, by a lot of powerful people who are interested. But they're so powerful these interests, so much that they're worth running over the rights of many. And that's not as simple as Pablo Hasel – that also – went from the young men of Girona in 2007; it went from Joan Tardà; it went from Guifré and Jordi, two young seamen who had to go with twenty-two years to the National Audience to give explanations for having fallen on fire to a portrait. Europe had to come to say an obvious, that this was freedom of expression. And, despite this, it follows the persecution, followed by the Catalan National Assembly in its actions, Teresa Rodríguez or the same Pere Aragonès, today president of Catalonia, for political statements representing the vast majority of Catalans and Catalans. He also explained that it could not be, it cannot be said "republic a 14th April and, then, prevent commissions of inquiry into the monarchy at the Congress of Deputies, or to prevent the repeal of a feudal crime, such as that of injury to the crown, still in force. He also said that there was no science-justice to reorient the interpretation of hate crimes against the discriminated and not the persecutors. And yes, it also goes to solidarity. And it's that solidarity for us goes forward, it's unconditional – other companies who have spoken before me have also said this – it's unconditional regardless of the degree of agreement or the coincidence of opinions with those who suffer from repression, and this case could certainly also be a very good example. Solidarity is unconditional, and it is for a purely political issue: everyone has the right to express himself freely and to defend his political project, and he must be able to do so fully, as we also want to do fully by the independenceists. And that is why, in the exercise of our rights, we also see laminates, as precisely as we are more aware of the effects of repression and of the need for this unconditional and mutual solidarity, on the first day, but still more today, five months later, because every second that goes past prison is a new injustice. Only from solidarity can we have this essential foundation to build large majorities and overcome those that go beyond democracy to pursue dissenting ideas or to defend its privileges, which they say "Constitution". We Republicans are always there. A few days ago, Diana Riba – a Republican MEP with whom last April we were able to visit in Pablo Hasel together with Senator Sara Bailac, with Deputy Marta Rosique or with whom Kènia Domènech, spokesman for the young republic – presented a report explaining that there is still much work to be done in Europe to protect, through community legislation, freedom of artistic expression. We won't rest until we get it. But even with these shortcomings, we knew yesterday that the European Court of Human Rights was already beginning to investigate the judicial mountains suffered by the young people of Altsasu. It would be good for the Spanish State to stop chasing titillaries, painters, singers and rappers. I do not know whether later or later Europe will intervene, but what I do know is that the Catalan republic we defend, the republic we defend, that here we believe it is inexorable, surely it will be inevitable. I ended up with a catchphrase from the great Joan Margarit in his poem about freedom, and in honor of Pablo Hasel and the exiles, Valtònyc, President Puigdemont and the rest of the councillors: "Freedom is a king going out by train to exile. And we'll celebrate with all of them here at home in freedom. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.195.0	Next, to fix the position of his parliamentary group, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Socialists and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Rubén Viñuales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.196.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, when I saw this motion for a resolution with the title no longer seduced me, but I say: "Go on, we'll give you an opportunity and read it. The first thing you say: "The lack of freedom of expression in the Spanish State is every time more scandalous. Drawings and drawings of people are judged annually to criticize the regime and denounce the shame... – no, "the shames, I forgive –" of the State, as well as the constant understatement that this act against our rights. With this it would no longer be advisable to continue and by procedural economy we could say that we would vote no. But it's more than that, there are deep gaps in the truth. Apart from the constant talk that Spain is bad, very bad, that the monster Buu, the Freezer and Satanàs Cor Petit governs us, which is already quite common in his texts, the truth is that they speak of the case of Mr. Pablo Hasel with a little legal rigour that truth tempts, in the end, against his own right. First of all: Mr. Hasel is not in jail for some injuries to the crown. It is false – it is false –; he was fined for this crime. But more than that, Mr. Hasel has to allow me to either go to jail for the first sentence, which was 2015 in the National Court, two years for the height of terrorism, which was suspended, the penalty, because this "fessistic state" and – as they have also said? Allow me, eh? –, "is oppressive and demophobic, what it has is Article 80 of the Criminal Code that suspects the deprivation of liberty until two years when you are a primal delinquent. He's been suspended. But it's 2016, six months more jail time and a fine to assault a TV3 journalist. I guess they don't like it and they don't say it. And in 2018 a fine for damages and new months and a day of imprisonment for the heightening of terrorism. Ah, well, there's also another, from Lleida, from the Provincial Court, from a year and nine months for obstruction of justice and nine months for threats to a witness in one case. But I guess they don't care. We felt attentively what the companion of In Comú Can't. He said he's reached an agreement in the newsroom. I suppose in this essay and in this paragraph that I read you agree. "The one who surprises me..., you said, surprise him on the PSC paper. So if we give him what surprises us the role of the commons... I don't know how long the ghosts of independence will pay. They don't know, really. They're paying off and they don't see it or know it and they don't want to recognize it. So, if you're surprised by the PSC paper, I don't even explain what we're surprised by. You are aware..., the companies and companies of In Comú Pueblo, that are part of an oppressive and demophobic state. Is this the reality they're asserting? Well, then we will also continue with the subject of the motion for a resolution. Clearly, here we are talking about a lord, who is Pablo Hasel, who – and I say to the president that I do not consider it to be the statement of this deputy but what this lord said, because for my atemptaria against article 233.1 of the Rules of Procedure, of the decòrum : « Bukkake for all those pirates who paint us all men as potential abusers and they would like only women. Another of Mr. Hasel's: "It offends me that this bitch thinks I'm going to listen to her for having pussy and two tits. That's the kind of character you're defending. But in addition, we go to the content of his proposal: ask... Directly, the first requires the immediate release of Pablo Hasel. To you, the issue of the separation of powers costs you, but we would try to explain it to you from this faristol. Mirin, when there is separation of powers, the legislature cannot tell the judiciary what to do. This is the reality of Montesquieu, which I recommend reading to them. I already know that you, in your transitional law, say that the President of the Generality appoints the President of the Supreme Catalan Court and the prosecutor in charge of this Catalan imaginary republic, but the reality is that what you are asking is very dangerous for democracy. Now I imagine that by magic they do, I don't know how, because I'm telling you, there is separation of powers in Spain, but... they do. Who's next? What's the next one we're asking for the release? Here I have illustrious lawyers, maybe we have some client who would be interested in you bringing a resolution proposal. Where do we put the limit? And even more: who lays the limit? Us? We, the legislative power, are we the ones who have to put the limit and choose who we ask to free ourselves? If you want to talk about reform, we can talk about it. In fact, it has already been said publicly that there is a desire to reform these articles of the Criminal Code, but you don't really care about them. It has been said so much that, even though you still deny it, you can see it. And let me also talk about some of the demonstrations that have been held here by Parliament's fellow Members. If it were Mr. Hasel now, which I assume would pass him the video somehow, I wouldn't be too happy with the defense you've made, because you haven't talked much about Mr. Hasel. Mirin, the UPC always says: "Spain, uh, how bad, it's just like Turkey; it talked about women while defending the proposal, we've already seen the opinion of Mr. Hasel of women; it said "tolerate criticism. And as long as we tolerate it. Do we explain to him that we are not independent of what level of tolerance we have for criticism? Very much. Together: he spoke of the Court of Auditors; as not, he made a very nice independenceist arena and also drew the usual mantra from most Catalans who want a reference. Home, this eighty per cent one day we'd have to start pulling, because it's lying, but well, as I'm glad you didn't say anything about the tax policy, about 300,000 million euros that Mr. Canadell said, which I assume is calculated from Guifré le Pilós or Ramon Berenguer IV, because, if not, the numbers don't come to me. In the end – and I think I'll be the first deputy who won't finish the time you have – what we want to say to you is, if you want us to talk about politics, let's talk about it – let's talk about it. Do they really want to change these articles? It does. But if they want to talk, in the end, about demagogicism, populism and this type of act that, in the end, the only one that they do..., are in front of the gallery, I can assure them that they will never find the Socialist Party of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.197.0	Next, and on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.198.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating and voting on a motion for a resolution tabled for a conglomerate of parties opposed to the law, to order and to freedom, a proposal presented for those who want to destroy everything that the records that we live in a society with standards, respect for the law and coexistence must prevail. To the extreme left and separatist parties that have promoted this initiative – the CUP, Esquerra, Junts, Podemos –, to those who fill their mouths precisely talking about freedom, today we make it clear that there is no freedom but within an order that protects it. But of course, you don't believe in freedom or want any sort of order. With the proposal that you bring to this chamber, you call for the deletion of the Criminal Code from all those articles that you do not like, and you call for the release of a multi-recidivist criminal. Look, besides, it's neither the forms nor the place, nor does it make any sense for you to come here and talk about rapists. If you want to reform the Penal Code to further enhance terrorism, insulting the Crown with total impunity without consequences, you must know that the Parliament of Catalonia has no competence in this matter, so the second and third points of this motion for a resolution are a wet paper. On the other hand, that the Parliament of Catalonia demands the release of Pablo Hasel does not have any legal effect nor will it imply the release of this criminal. Therefore, the proposal that you bring to this Parliament lacks any legal relevance and only shows that separatism lives from the parliamentary posture, seeking to satisfy the delusions of the violent radicals who burned down the streets of Catalonia in February and looted dozens of shops. You claim that Spain is an oppressive state that condemns people to prison for singing, as, as you say, happened to Pablo Hasel. Look, let's just say this guy's in jail for singing is, frankly, the less ridiculous. And if not, let's remember who this guy is, because, even if you're trying to dress up the silk monkey, it stays. And neither Pablo Hasel is an artist nor what he does can be called singing, because this subject is limited to erupting phrases like "I wish the GRAPOs would come back and get on your knees, the GRAPOs were in self-defense before imperialism and its crime, deserves to blow up Patxi López' car, "I don't mind your shot in the back, false socialist, "I think of bullets that the necks of judges reach, "it's a mistake not to listen to what I sing, like Terra Lliure leaving Losantos alive. Really, gentlemen, does this sound like art to you? Does this seem like freedom of expression to you? Talking about car bombs, shooting in the back of the head, is that okay with you? But that's not all. Pablo Hasel was sentenced to two years in prison for exalting terrorism, for exalting and praising the massacres of GRAPO, ETA, A el Qaeda, RAF and his beloved Terra Lliure. To this is added another sentence of twelve months of fine for insults and slanders to the Crown and fifteen more months for insults and slanders to the institutions of the State. On the other hand, the rapper published 1,915 tweets where he praised the murders of ETA, of GRAPO, spoke of bombs, of terrorism; but Pablo Hasel's criminal discography does not end here. In 2016 he assaulted a TV3 journalist, yes, from his television, the one they claim to defend, during an assault on the University of Lérida. This resulted in a six-month prison sentence and payment of compensation of EUR 12 thousand to the victim. In 2017 he was sentenced to one year and nine months in prison for obstruction of justice, ill-treatment of works and threats to the witness of a trial. In short, saying that Pablo Hasel's criminal has been convicted for political reasons, for singing, for tweeting is an insult to the intelligence of Catalans. He has been imprisoned for a crime of exalting terrorism, for insulting and slandering a journalist and for assaulting the witness of a trial. And if this is the model of a person who promotes separatism and socialism, Catalans must be seriously concerned. Separatists, communists and ultra-leftists, have been instigating violence from the institutions for too long, and that has led us Catalans to suffer defencelessness and helplessness, and on top of having to pay for the broken dishes of their irresponsibility. Last February, while the Catalans lived in the uncertainty of the third wave and the positives of covid only increased, you pushed a new wave of violence in the streets of Catalonia that spread to many other cities in Spain. Multiple members of extreme leftist and separatist formations used social networks to call for violence, instigating authentic camp battles in the streets of our cities. Some members of the UPC present here actively participated in the riots. Isn't that right, Mr. Cornellà? [[Pause.]] He's not here? Well, it still hurts his head that day. The Catalans had to witness how the street terrorists burned hundreds of containers, destroyed public furniture, looted shops, launched customs and all kinds of objects against the State Security Forces and Bodies. Yes, also to the Mossos d'Esquadra, whom you have completely abandoned, helpless, and which you use as a currency of exchange for your government pacts. Bank offices reduced to rubble, seventy_y_five vandalized shops, twelve looting in shops worth 1_million_of_euro; this in the city of Barcelona. A total of one hundred and nine violent demonstrators arrested for all kinds of crimes and about twenty agents of the wounded Mossos d'Esquadra. They even set fire to a police van, with an urban guard officer trapped inside. Their puppies came to violently assault the police station of the Mossos d'Esquadra de Vic, a real terrorist attack. And this is the mark of left and separatism: blood, fire and destruction. You use any excuse to turn our streets into combat territory, using your street terrorists to force your totalitarian model of subversion of the constitutional order. And, since VOX, we are glad that you have tabled this motion for a resolution. In this way, the Catalans will be able to see how they remove the face of false democrats and vote in favour of a criminal. While Catalonia faces the fifth wave, while Catalans suffer from their negligent policies and illegal curfews, which have brought to ruin thousands of families, of hoteliers, of self-employed, while youth unemployment dramatically increases, while primary care centers are more collapsed than ever, you are more concerned about a criminal and a low-level rapper. Ladies and gentlemen, today you have shown that you do not care about the real problems of Catalans and are only concerned with defending criminals, subverting order and peace. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.199.0	Then, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament Anna Grau has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.200.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, it looks like today we've all brawled hard and tastefully, huh? Well, they say that all generations need heroes, that we're all looking for someone to emmirate us in order to try to be better and make some sense. The heroes can be of past, present or future. I remember right now a midday, from the end of the 1990s, when I watched as a journalist of the daily Today at a curious demonstration of young activists of the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, many of them, despite their youth, you will already function or full-time employees of the Generality. I remember a young man Josep Rull in front of that "minimum" that, like the journalist, I covered myself – it should not interest anyone else – shouting enthusiastically: "General Moragues, the fight continues. I don't know if everyone here has a clear history of General Moragues. I have special sympathy for him, because he was born to Sant Hilari de Sacalm, thirty kilometers from Arbúcies, from where is my mother's family. Josep Moragues was a Catalan and Spanish soldier who, in the war of 1714, yes, the war of 1714, fought for the Austrian cause and against Philip V. And he continued to fight when there was no European power left over from the Carles Archduke, that is, when there were no other kings of Spain left possible than Philip V and continued to wage war against him from Catalonia was a contradiction and a suicide. But Moragues was not a politician of whom they would die peacefully in bed after having sent the Catalan people to a tragic and absurd civil war. Moragues was brave, he had honor, he had a good plant, he took fame and prestige. He arrived immediately at the general and governor of the fortress of Castellciutat, at the Seu d'Urgell. After Almansa, he gave up the fort and withdrew to Sort, malalt, but then he got mixed up again to participate in the defense of Barcelona before the tropes of the Duke of Berwick. At the end of the war, he tried to withdraw again and stay out of politics, but thanks to various betrayals, including that of the captain of the ship who had promised to take him to Mallorca, General Moragues ended up being jutjat, tortured, executed and stripped of all military honour. They made him walk barefoot, with a penitent shirt and flushed for a horse on the streets of Barcelona until he reached the gallows where the degullarian, decapitarian and squarteran. They held their head steeped in a cage at the sea door of the wall of Barcelona for twelve years. « General Moragues, the fight continued to cry a hundred _ fifty young people you would work converging now a little more than twenty years ago for the center of Barcelona. And the truth, it turned out to be a bit of a contrast between the character light they used to invoke and their modus vivendi of the generality's functioning. It was time for him to play with these things of Catalanism and that no one could imagine that someone like Josep Rull would end up in prison one day. Well, the pace of the years has turned its back more than not to elevate its ambitions or ideals. And here we are, managing another Catalanism that doesn't give way to making war in Spain is to make harakiri, it's making war to one; more than just not going anywhere and just representing the authentic feeling of an immense majority of Catalans. But at least General Moragues had a certain greatness. It is already sad that today a bunch of Members of this Parliament, among them the spokesman of the party of the current president of the Generalitat, Mrs Marta Vilalta, do not find any better, no anti-Spanish hero more interesting than Mr Pablo Rivadulla Duró, allies Pablo Hasel. We don't know if that's the way it is to see if it connects more to the Tinder or to miss out on the fact that it is the son of the entrepreneur Ignacio Rivadulla, prosecuted for leaving the Lleida Sports Union with a debt of 10_million euros and net of the Frankish keeper Andrés Rivadulla Buira, famed for fighting the maquis in the Aran Valley. Let me tell you that Citizens don't normally look at these things, we don't think that children have to pay for the sins of their peers or their opinions, Francois or not, and we don't question anyone about their origins. We certainly don't, because they must be the only liberals around here. In fact, I wouldn't have thought of the genealogical tree of Mr. Pablo Rivadulla Duró if we weren't carrying a whole week's worth of looking at how, for example, we are trying to disallow the uncertain arguments of our esteemed spokesman, the deputy Nacho Martín Blanco, seeing that he is a relative of Rodolfo Martín Villa, that if he were not, people wouldn't be surprised, but the case is that he isn't. And it seems pathetic to me, a lot of processes in low hours try to shut someone up in a clean ethnic key. But we were talking about Pablo Rivadulla Duró, Pablo Hasel for the friends, if it is that friends can have such a civilly entrepreneurship. I read the explanatory statement of the motion for a resolution we are debating here today that if, according to the proposed groups, in Spain, there is no freedom of speech and hate crimes in place of protecting criminal collections in ideologies, that if here it is not a crime to raise terrorism or insult the crown, what if bla-bla-bla. And they did not find any better to embody all this barricaded shield, all this inconsistent and unrelevant and futile bequeath against the Penal Code than Mr. Pablo Rivadulla Duró? This is General Moragues of the CUP, Republican Left, Juntes per Cat and En Comú Can we? Decidedly, the more we go, the less we go. It's enough to be willing to make the ridiculous attempt to become a hero and a social referent, an individual who makes a horrible music, with letters that are sorry. I haven't heard a few textual quotes, I add: "I don't feel sorry for your shot in the back of the head, "peper", I don't feel sorry for your shot in the back, "socialist", "that someone key a piolet in the head of José Bono, "I prefer GRAPOs than handsome, "my brother entered the PP's headquarters shouting" Gora ETA ", "I fuck a bomb, they blow their brains out and their ashes put them at the door of the Paeria. Well, they're not exactly Nino Bravo songs, are they? In other words, if you think this is the flower and the cream of the Iberian freedom of expression, congratulations! But, if not, tell the truth: Mr. Pablo Rivadulla Duró has not entered or probably would never have entered the prison to say and sing all these baccalaureates, but to be a violent person, who, as has already been said here, does not doubt physically to stun journalists, witnesses of judges or mere political opponents. It would be the perfect definition of the « corner thug, who kills iron, iron ends, if not because this individual has the immense luck of having been born to Lleida and not, for example, to Old Havana, where if you do these things that do or say half of what here, say they would already have blown their head off with a baseball bat. The anti-capitalists, anti-systems, and 'payers of the Castro dictatorship, one day they will have to make them look at this as they pretend that the Mossos d'Esquadra vagine with water pistols and sabots and listens to the Hello Kitty while the Castro Cuba of their loves is sharing the stuff without contemplations, they will, yes, to everyone who likes to criticize or minimally criticize the regime and you looking at another band and singing the 'Until ever, Commander. In short, it makes me very ashamed that a democratic parliament like this, a centenary institution, where we have actually seen them of all colors... – today, Mr. Carrizosa has already had them retreated from turning the Catalan Institute of Finance into a Catalan Institute of Finance to rescue institutional and institutional teachers. But, finally, we only missed it since we came in here any day on horseback a civil derailment like Pablo Rivadulla Duró, an individual who is a hate crime in himself, who is a hate crime with pots. Look, if you want to sit down one day and talk about the Criminal Code and whether you want to reform such a crime, serve and my group have a few ideas, huh? , we have a bunch of suggestions to fine-tune much more the detection of hate crimes, big and small, to private or institutional title, against anyone you don't think like yourself. As good as anyone who tries to speak castle in a Catalan school, defend bilingualism and coexistence or watch, what we say, that the public authorities are not spending the money of all in the deliriousness of a few..., to say the least, so good are the actual crimes of hate deserved by you a little bit of attention and solidarity that anyone deserves to believe a Spanish flag, tomorrow the death of the king or send a TV3 journalist to the hospital. And to leave me with nothing at all, I told them that we, the only liberals around here, see and judge everyone just for their own sakes and do not divide the world between us and yours, but as we do not mother the saying, we cannot fail to note that not everyone acts the same way. I wonder if Mr. Pablo Rivadulla Duró, allies Pablo Hasel, would enjoy such an extravagant parliamentary support in this chamber not to form part of the same anti-system oligarchy consented, but always with the well-cobert roar, of the same crust of which all of you are part, always speaking in the name of the oppressed, but always at the side of the oppressors. General Moragues, the struggle does not continue; what continues is the massive deception of the Catalan people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.201.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Group Mixt, have the word deputy Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.202.0	Yes, thank you, President. Let's see, because the motion for a resolution begins and it has no waste. He says: "The lack of freedom of expression in the Spanish State is increasingly scandalous, dozens and dozens of people are judged annually by criticizing the regime and denouncing the state's shames. Well, it is such a persecution and lack of freedom of expression that we have here that you come here day after day, full after full to insult and slander, and absolutely nothing happens. Last plenary session, a member of the CUP, Mr Pellicer, told us that Spain is a fascist, criminal, dictatorial and repressive state. I'm not sleeping. Have the evils of the regime come to stop you, Mr. Pellicer? Because, of course, if everything you say is true, then I don't know what you're doing here so freely. Or Mr. Morales, if all the barbarities you have said from this rostrum are true, the Civil Guard should be entering through the door. What happens is that you spend a little bit, you come here, you say what you want and nothing happens at all, because that repressive and oppressive state of which you speak does not exist. Of course, it's that tiny, unbearable repression! So unbearable that they pardon them and the first thing they do when putting a foot out is threaten to do it again. How distressing the persecution of the Spanish State is, it cannot be endured! Can't stand it! And then there are these poor kids, Mr. Pablo Hasel and Valtònyc, the singers, who, of course, are, Valtònyc, who sang things like: "Your Spanish flag is more beautiful in flames, just like a fucking Civil Guard Patrol when it bursts. Or: "Let a PP bus explode with charged nitroglycerin, that they are afraid as a civilian guard in Euskadi, for all those who are afraid when they start their car that they know that when they burst their ribs we will toast with champagne. « I want to convey to the Spaniards a message of hope: ETA is a great nation. This, Mr. Valtònyc. I beg your pardon, because, of course, I do not know how to rap with the same grace that Mr. Valtònyc raps. Although, well, he doesn't have any fun either. Because to me this seems to me nauseous – nauseous. This is not freedom of expression, this is heightening terrorism and threats. « For all those who are afraid when they start their car who know that when they burst their ribs we will toast with champagne is disgusting. Well, "he's short on disgusting. And then there's his fatigue partner, Mr. Pablo Hasel, who also has such animated letters. He says, for example, "It's worth blowing up Patxi López's car," "I don't feel sorry for your shot in the back of the neck, "pepero"; I don't feel sorry for your shot in the back of the neck, "socialist," "that someone key a piolet in the head of José Bono," "I prefer GRAPOs, that handsome – I was inspired there, with the rhyme Hasel –," "my brother enters the PP headquarters screaming" gora ETA," "I don't sell the story of who the bad guys are, I just think about killing them. This gentleman is another candid soul, Mr Hasel, who is an angel who besides singing to us all these beauties, also likes journalists and also threatens to kill witnesses. That's why Mr. Pablo Hasel is in jail; stop trying to manipulate and sell us a motorcycle that isn't. So the question is, do you defend all these barbarities? Because that's the real scandal. To come out here and try to disguise as freedom of expression what is the exaltation of terrorism and threats, therefore, seems to me to be a real shame, and moreover you here, in this proposal, also tell us that the crime of the exaltation of terrorism must be suppressed – I open quotes – because it restricts the freedom of expression of a very certain group of people. Yes, in particular from that particular group of people who justify violence as a means to achieve political ends and who sings to you things like "I prefer GRAPOs than handsome, "my brother enters the PP headquarters shouting" Gora ETA ", "I only think of killing them. Yes – yes – it looks at this group of people, precisely. I ask you if you agree with these barbarities. He also says, later on, in this explanatory statement, that he has no waste of this..., he says that all public offices are exposed to criticism no matter how careless it may be. And I do not share this, but I am not the only one who does not share it here, in this Chamber; some of the signatories of this PR, who come here to say that if you are a public office because you have to endure with what you touch, with which you fall, it turns out that then they put the cry in the sky when, for example, their chief of ranks make a painted calling the « rat, as, for example, happened to Mr. Iglesias. So, of course, does the rat enter or does not enter freedom of expression? , because I already lose myself; that's a question I ask to the lords of the commons who sign this PR, who, by the way, you were the ones who made the splashes fashionable until the splashes touched you; then you didn't like them that much anymore. Coherence is that it's not yours. But they are not the only ones, because also the lords of Junts and Esquerra, who also sign this PR, it turns out that they took to the prosecution the burning of the Puigdemont doll in Coripe, but then it turns out that there are dolls with posters representing constitutionalist parties hanging from a bridge, and then there nobody says anything, then there absolutely nothing happens. I ask: Is it a selective freedom of expression? Is it a crime of hatred and discrimination on the face of the letter? Or how's it going? I do ask you, perhaps, to make a catalogue of what it is and what it is not, in order to facilitate the task for others. Because, of course, you know what's going on? , that I, for me, as a Democrat who I am, no act of violence is justifiable. That is, to call violence, aggression; to exalt terrorism or banalize it; to mock the victims, to frighten or to point out someone for their ideas, that has no place in democracy, and I don't care whether they do it by rapping or do it in an alien verse; it has no place in democracy. And, look, they're asking us here to reform the Penal Code. I think that perhaps here what we have to reform are other rules, because what makes me ashamed is to have a government that is in the hands of some gentlemen whose youths celebrate the burning of a police van with the agent inside; that is what makes me very ashamed, or I do not know whether it is now that burning a police van is also freedom of expression. We, of course, have already told you that we are going to vote no against this barbarity and shame that you have brought to this Parliament today. Thank you. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.203.0	Yes, Mr. Cornellà, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.204.0	Yes, the word for allusions is required.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.205.0	Yes, for allusions, I'll give you thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.206.0	Thank you. So why does VOX come here to trivialize police violence, in this case, with what happened to me? So because VOX is a party that spreads institutional violence, spreads violence in the street against any of the freedoms, and we are seeing it lately to our towns and cities. And, yes, we go to demonstrations for the freedom of Hasel and for what you need, always in favor of democracy, freedom and against the fascism represented by the people of VOX. We will continue to fight for independence and true socialism, and we are more than three thousand people retaliated. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.207.0	Yes, Mr. Tarradas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.208.0	He asks for the word for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.209.0	It's just... yeah, but at the Spokesman's Board, his Spokesman will have told him not to go into allusions. You've heard it directly, you've made use of... (sounding voice), you've made use of your word when you made your presentation of the young man. He directly referred to a Member, the Member responded to these allusions and now the Member. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. (Alberto Tarradas Paneque intervenes without using the microphone.) One moment, I didn't give him the word and I don't feel it, if I don't give him the word because I don't feel it. Listen to what I'm saying. He spoke of his parliamentary group, did not directly refer him to you; he responded to his direct reference, in his own name, as a Member. You've made use of the word in your word tower. We don't go into a chain of allusions. We said, "You know your doorman, and we repeated it in the chamber." Therefore, as you have not been personally greeted, while you have indeed been greeted by the Member of Parliament Cornellà, you do not have the word. Therefore, we proceed to the vote – the debate is over – on the motion for a resolution on criminal reform and the freedom of Pablo Hasel, in his original text, as he presented, since there are no papers. The vote begins. With 82 votes in favour and 53 against, this motion for a resolution was adopted. [[Some applause.]] We'll suspend the session and how we're going a little bit faster than we expected, which is unusual for the time being in this legislature, we'll find ourselves at two-quarters of four. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.210.0	Let's resume the session with the sixth point of the order of the day. [[Proposal for a law on the stabilisation of workers and workers in the public sector (debate of totality)]] [[202-00002/13]] It is the total debate on the proposal of the law of stability of workers in the public sector. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules, to present this legislative initiative will intervene, first of all, the proposing group, the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, for a maximum of fifteen minutes. It is, therefore, the word Mrs Basha Change's deputy, on behalf of the CUP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.211.0	Thank you, President. Today we find ourselves here, another time, to talk about the stability of the workers of the Catalan public sector. A proposal for law that was already presented in the previous legislature and that could not prosper, because it lapsed in finalizing this. And, obviously, let's talk another time about this problem, because it's still more active than ever. And our parliamentary group has made it a priority again, as it cannot be in any other way. First, because we have thousands of temporary workers, mobilized on the street, tirelessly; workers who have a triple day. They have the day of work, they have the day of cures – because most of them are women – and they have the day of militancy to which they see themselves practicing because we can now be doing what we are doing, which is to debate this proposal of law. We have a problem, second of all, we're here talking because we have a problem with the Catalan Public Administration. And public administration is a generator of precariousness. When we see that forty per cent of the public workers in the Catalan public administration sector are in temporary employment, they are in temporary employment, they are effectively unstable, we see..., what we see is an absolute lack of political will to strengthen some services that guarantee the rights of life worthy for all and for all. In accounts to strengthen public services, we have administrations that generate precariousness. Because temporality implies instability, implies uncertainty. It is more, when this precariousness affects, in the majority, women between thirty and forty-five years, with this triple day that we talked about before, the problem is not just the contract model, the problem is a structural problem that speaks of which model of public management we are promoting. Here there is a dair for the outsourcing of servers, a completely consolidated neoliberal model, which puts forward the economic cost of the servers, the cost of the workers, in accounts of thinking about the benefit of the population. And much less in the labor rights of the workers who provide these services. I mean, we work for an independent country, yeah, but an independent country that's all of us, not just the companies that run them. Strong public services are a guarantee of quality of life for all. And without workers there are no public servants. Therefore, without decent working conditions, they cannot have quality services. And the storm of temporality, what you tell us is this, which is considered the worker as an economic element, usable. And that there is a preference for temporaryity in contracting, so that you can dispense with these people when they are no longer needed, when they are no longer productive, or when you no longer compensate for the service in economic terms. We have the example of the dismantling of Barcelona Active, with the approximation of the forty_per_cent of the template when the sensations began to arise in favor of this abuse and this law fraud, due to the abuse of temporality. Or the « attempt made by Constellera Vergés, the year passed, with the contract of the hunters of the covid, trying that a servant of the primary attention passed to be done for a branch of Ferrovial, for Ferroser. That we saw here how the organization of civil society radically opposed and that contract did not materialize. We also have, for example, the decree of education plants, which is, in the end, a door to externalisation, a dedemocratisation of the cloisters making these awards said. We also have the example of SEPE, with this recent hosting of 1,500 interns, while a outsourcing contract is signed to manage the services. In short, what we see are examples that show that the problem of interinatge in the storm has a structural foundation, which is how we conceive the economic model of our country. If we have cheap workers, in precarious conditions, we have poor public services. We have an administration that is not interested in promoting public service, because it is interested in reducing costs through outsourcing and promoting the work of third parties, to the detriment of the quality of life of all. This proposal of law that we are carrying today is elaborated with this perspective: that of guaranteeing rights for all; that of not letting anyone else go; that of dignified, respecting the work and the trajectories of the workers; that of keeping the experts and the acquaintances of the workers for between the Public Administration, to strengthen it, to bet on it for the public, to bet on it for all. It is also done with the prospect of giving compliments to the judgment of the High Court of Justice of the European Union, which clearly explains three things: the first, defines what fraud is. They are those workers who have been working for more than three years, carrying out structural, stable and permanent work among a servant. Secondly, it tells us what is not a solution, take places that are in fraud, apologize for the lack of economic resources or the structure of human resources, or create the indefinite figure not fixed, nor would it be a solution. Thirdly, it indicates to us what would be a solution, the recognition of the fraud by means of compensation or also the recognition of the right to work, which is what our proposal applies, which is cheaper and more worthy. The law proposal we're bringing today indicates different questions. First, the scope of application to the Administration, to the totality of the Catalan Public Administration. It also defines these situations of fraud in compliment of the judgment of the High Court of Justice of the European Union that – we make an incis – it is curious that we, the CUP, the ungovernables and the ones of disobedience, will come to draw attention to the compliment of the regulations that other groups so much leave, but then so much is skipped. And the differential element, our proposition of law is an element of social justice, because if the person does not overcome the opposition, there is no loss of the place of work, because it is recognized that there is a preliminary consolidation, in fact, and therefore this place has to be incorporated into the relationship of places of work. Basically, it's putting the blame on the touch, putting the responsibility on the touch, which is the Administration and not the workers. Because what can't be done is to make the workers pay for the negligence that the Public Administration carries, not years, but decades. Our proposal is a solution that, moreover, is also compatible with a possible reform of the EBP and with other measures that are intended to be promoted at the state level, which is not our mark, but if there are parliamentary groups that he wants to explore, we will not object to this exploration, even though after we see whether or not we are collecting, depending on the guarantee that these other options have for all and all people who are hurt by this fraud and this abuse of law. For all, not just for a few, not selectively, not for old age, not for the kind of pilgrim excuse to which they are likely to attach. What it is about is to start working and approve this law proposal to move a step forward in this way of stabilising public workers. The Catalan Parliament is once again a pioneer in standards that guarantee the rights of people and the Catalan people, another time, at the forefront of the guarantee of the rights of workers and workers. Our proposal of law puts at the center the fraud that has been committed by the Public Administration, and not the model of access. Why don't we solve the current problem of people who are already affected by this fraud and this kind of interinitiation, regulating the access pattern. This is a solution to the future. And, besides, this is leaving behind the workers and workers who have raised up sincere departments, who have left their hair and their lives to build the Catalan Public Administration. And here they have nothing to do with the career functionaries. The problem isn't that you're gonna work. You won't have any kind of threat, because nobody here is talking about giving him the place to work for anyone. What we're talking about is social justice, the responsibility of the Administration to leave no one behind. And more, when it's the fault of the own Administration that these people are in this situation. Access to public office continues without having any type of interference or interference with this measure proposed by this bill, nor is it in danger or competent. Here I would like to say that to counter access to public office with the problem of storming the interiors is cynical and perverse, because that is to brag about the springs. This is to confront workers against workers, when here the responsibility is of the Administration and not of the people who are on the brink of temporality. We have rejected, too, a statement to the totality, with an alternative text by part. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. , oh, surprise, the party of Catalonia – the party of Catalonia says, because socialism, in this proposal, as in so many others, is neither there nor is expected. And just explain what kind of socialism it is that you bet to ask some workers to prepare some oppositions to access a plaza that they have raised and consolidated for years, while doing this triple day. What kind of socialism expresses shameless that people who do not overcome these processes will be welcomed? And with so much peace. The alternative proposal of the PSC, already this or the decree of Madrid, is disrespectful and unreal. So unreal that it's an insult to the workers and their work. Look, I'm new to Parliament, but not to life. And I've been reviewing who the Socialist Party positions were the previous time that this bill was put forward, because it's the same, we haven't changed a single one. I would particularly like to highlight an intervention that was made by the Socialist Party in this response, when our company, the Vidal Aragonese – greetings, which you are seeing us – made a valuable cry to the Socialist Party that this proposal for law for interim, for administration, for justice had to be collected. And I, after seeing his proposal, think and say, "Justice, of what? Justice of who? Is justice left in your alternative text proposal, in this law proposal you present? Where is justice done with all those workers who do not overcome the opposition processes? With money? There are things that aren't paid with money. Years of work are not paid with money. Respect for people's work pay is not paid with money. The dignity of people cannot be bought with compensation, however large it is. Is it fair to drag them into the rubble as if they were working in the valley for nothing? As if the sweat and effort with which they have built these structures of the Public Administration, consolidating these departments and these places of work, does not serve with these proposals, follow the alternative proposal, follow the decree of Madrid. Above all, as his own company Iceta said, "we have to renew with young blood or I don't know what kind of unfortunate and disrespectful expression made it serve. What is clear is that we all agree that this problem has to be addressed now, can't wait any longer. We get to work, we approve of this bill because the interns have worked, the interns have fought and now it's up to us all who are here, in this room, to be on the rise of these workers. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.212.0	Next, and for the defense of the speech to the totality with alternative text presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has the word of the deputy Marta Moreta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.213.0	Good afternoon, Counselor, deputies and deputies. Today we present this speech to the totality with a text alternated to the proposal of the law of stability of the workers and the workers of the public sector presented for the CUP and with the explicit support of Esquerra and Juntes for Catalonia. And we do so with the conviction that the CUP's law proposal has severe lack of funds. To begin with, the text presented does not give legal certainty, but rather becomes a proposal for unconstitutional law. And, therefore, we are starting from an incorrect approach that will only lead to the frustration of workers and workers in the public sector. A small-scale proposal, I would say, opportunistic, that only pretends to be good in front of public workers, like another band used to making the UPC, with the aim of selling smoke without taking into account all the legal considerations involved in this bill. For the CUP, whether the text is unconstitutional or not, or whether or not it gives legal certainty to the staff of the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia. What counts is selling the law and saying that they did, and if they do, as always, blame the State, that in that they are experts. And we find ourselves a Republican Left that's hooked up to an anti-system partner who can't give up and that even though they internally express that this proposal doesn't hold back, they'll give it support. And, on the other hand, a Junts for Catalonia that you see reddened and that the last thing you would do would be to give support to a proposal of as much inconsistency as this. But it's not all right. No, ladies and gentlemen, it's not all right. You can't play with workers and public workers. What they're proposing, because you understand everyone, can't be done because the law doesn't allow it. A rather elaborate proposal, as I said, that, for the most part, they want to process it by emergency procedure. Well, the CUP even wanted to do it for one reading. That finally fell apart. This proposal is a mockery for all public workers who suffer from temporaryity in their workplaces. But do they know what's the hardest part of it? That the Government of Catalonia is in the hands of the CUP and cannot publicly recognize that the law's proposal is a nyap. In fact, they do recognize openly that the text will have to be modified with various elements to improve it, not to mention that it will have to be changed from the first end to the last comma. In fact, I'm sure today we'll hear various explanations, as we've started to feel, that they'll support the government without sharing what they're presenting to us. We will find another historic day without transcendence, a day of demonstration of the independence unit, even though it is not true. But things can't be done this way, they can't be done so badly, and for us, the PSC and Forward Units, let's say no. Let us say no to a proposal of law that says textually: "The transformation will consist in the recognition of the right to romance in the place of work that you exercise with the same rights and subject to the same rule of stability and inmobility that is governing the comparable civil service without acquiring this condition. Because we understand all the pleas, you say that the more than 58,000 working people in Catalonia are now running without competition-opposition. To say ras and curt: coffee for everyone. That's exactly what's unconstitutional. First of all, because the generality doesn't have any skills. No, no, you don't have any skills, we have to make it clear. And then, because it can't be that a career officer is permanently linked to the Public Administration without overcoming an opposition to getting the square fixed. It's as simple as that. But of course, the Government of Catalonia and its unconditional partners live in the country of impunity where everything is allowed. For all these reasons that I have just explained, the Socialist Parliamentary Group Unites pour Avançar presents a whole question with an alternative text. As you well know, at these times, a third of the workers and structural workers in the Catalan public sector are in a situation of temporality and the seventy per cent of these places or places of work are occupied by women. On July 5, the Ministry of Territorial Policy and Public Service announced the agreement to reduce the temporality in public administrations. Under this rule, the Government compliments one of the reforms envisaged in the recovery, transformation and resilience plan, and the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Supreme Court calling for the elimination of temporality. In fact, the same ministry was committed with Brussels to reducing to a maximum the high number of persons involved in the joint, parliamentary, autonomous governments and the State. Administrations tend to have the obligation to convert thousands of places in these moments to all of Spain through opposition contests. It is for this reason that the alternative text presented by my parliamentary group seeks to respond to this systemic failure on the part of the Administration, and above all, to give this legal certainty to the staff of the Administration of the Government of Catalonia. How do we do that, then? So we simply set aside the stability of this personal through the specific empowerment of a select process based on an opposition contest, where we put in value the time worked on a square, the place of work that has been occupied during a period of more than three years. As you well know – and if you don't know it now – today, the Congress of Deputies has validated the royal decree with two important changes that we share, which are: proofs that they pretend to keep them from being eliminated. This is a substantial change, and that people who wear more than two years in their seats and who have not been called for a contest, should be asked for a merit contest. In addition to processing the royal decree, it will act as a bill of law, and therefore, it will be locked up, if all is well, at the end of October. That's why today it's so strange that Esquerra votes against this whole question with this alternate text that we present, because knowing that today these changes have been made and have been agreed in the Congress, and they go in line with the alternate text that we present, today Esquerra comes out in this Faristol and says that he will vote against the whole question, which is, in short, the support that they have just given to him in the Congress of Deputies. So I don't understand. I can't hear it. Well, in fact, the alternative text we're proposing, which I said, agreed with this royal decree, and modified the recast text of the law of the basic state of public employment, which was approved at the beginning of July and which made reference now a moment ago, and which sets out the figures of interest in public employment, which are completely unsustainable. This reform has been implemented for reasons of social justice, legal certainty and the fulfilment of Spain's commitments to the European Commission. And it is clear that from now on no one will be able to carry out a structural job with the Administration with a temporary name that lasts more than three years. Moreover, it is for this reason that before a failure the worker will have right to be compensated and the Administration can be sanctioned. It is also clear that access to these places will have to be done through an opposition contest, as I said, where the contest phase will be forty per cent and the experience will be a determining factor. Yes, yes, the experience will be a determining factor and the staff, which still does not pass the selection process, will have right to a twenty-day compensation per year worked up to a maximum of twelve months to join a specific bag. This was possible thanks to the agreement reached with various trade union organizations, with the Workers' Committees, the UGT and the Independent Central Trade Union of Civil Servants. It's not true, it's not true, ladies and gentlemen of the UPC, that every interim person is in a situation of abuse. Members of the CUP and Members of Parliament have actively collaborated on the abuse of temporary workers, and have given support to the last independent governments, because they have allowed a person who has entered to work occupying a structural place of the relevant Administration, not to have called a place for him. Therefore, you are also responsible for this bust. Finally, I would like to address the Parliamentary Group of Commons. I will ask him to see if he knows who these words are: "I would like to congratulate Minister Iceta on the historic agreement that we have come to reduce the storm in the public sector, since this problem had never been addressed and there were no easy people. The agreement is extraordinary, since all unions support it and have its difficulty. These are the words of the third vice president of the Government of Spain, Ms. Yolanda Díaz, Minister of Labour and Social Economy of the United States, and make these statements after the Government approves the royal decree. I hope, therefore, that, today, the friends of the commons show their talent and vote in favour of this speech to the totality with alternative text, which has been drafted with the basis of the royal decree which was approved at the Congress, because if they do not – if they do not – demonstrate a brutal inconsistency before an agreement signed for them. More deputies and deputies. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.214.0	Next, and for a turn against it, has the word Mrs Basha Change's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.215.0	Thank you, President. Well, the "icetaz", or the decree that was voted on in Madrid, or the alternative proposal, because in the end they are the same thing, what makes it to climb the rights of people who have worked in the Public Administration for more than three years, in a situation of law and insecure work and, therefore, of precariousness and who now intend to make them out and leave them without their place of work under unfair conditions. That is to say, the same people have suffered from the abuse on the part of the Administration working under irregular conditions will be the ones who will pay the consequences of the abuse of the Administration, which now, through this document and these proposals, is looking for shields to get away from the interes that are under the law, that they are uncomfortable, and their obligations with them, segregating them by antiquity, segregating them in case they have "with girls or not, i.e., taking steps to see if they are lost in the way and so, little by little, they arrive at this new_per_cent. Clearly, so, if we take them out, and as long as we lower the percentage. Let's not fool ourselves, though. What surprises us is neither the decree of the Iceta nor this thought to the totality. What is unworthy of us is the double Republican Left game in all this process. Today Esquerra Republicana has approved a decree of the Government, of the Spanish Government, the "Icetazo", which in fact leaves thousands of workers of the Public Administration without rights, which gives the skeleton to the demands of the unions and of the movements of interns and which lifts a proposal of law of this Parliament, the one that we present today also with your support, which seeks to protect the rights of the workers and the public workers, of all, of all, not only those who carry more than two years, not only those who have convoked, not only..., not all. In short, today Esquerra Republicana and Podemos, to support and support the Government of Madrid, have carried out months of struggle and of work collected from the interiors. The question we ask ourselves is: what change? Who's the price that's got this? What have you been given to change this? Because the PSOE presents a contract rule to labor rights is its general practice and would almost say natural as honorary members of the 78th Regime. [[remorse of the voice]] , but that Republican Left and We can, with the connivance of In Comú Podemos, give support to maintaining precariousness to the public sector situates them as part of the problem. And yes, here they vote against the threat to totality, but they have the responsibility to give an answer to thousands of interns, who are left on the sidelines and many of them here at the door of Parliament at these times, who carry years of precariousness. Do they bet to stabilize the regime or the interns? It would be a question of deciding. Between the struggle and the rights of public workers and the governance of the PSOE. You in Congress have sorted PSOE. His submission to the PSOE deteriorated the agreement with us. We have no doubt that they are fully aware of it. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.216.0	Then, to express his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, the deputy Mr Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.217.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today the Parliamentary Group of the CUP presents a proposal for a law for the stabilization of public sector workers in Catalonia. The temporality of the public sector in Catalonia is around thirty_per_cent, which constitutes ninety_ thousand problems, which are people who are affected by this situation, since each of them faces a situation of insecurity and uncertainty in their future work, which also affects their life plan. For many years, budgetary forecasts have not been made, job relations have not been updated and new oppositions have not been called. Instead of doing their duties where appropriate, they resolved the needs, or not, of covering staff with temporary and temporary recruitments that condemned the persons so selected to provisionality and uncertainty. And it must be remembered, the guilty of this situation have a name: the nationalist parties that have ruled continuously over the past forty years and have little cared about the concerns of the ninety-thousand affected by their disastrous management. Since the Generalitat, private companies are asked to lower the rate of temporaryity of their employees, and they have no reason to do so, because, as has been said, people have the right to a decent and stable job, but you have not done so. From the VOX Parliamentary Group we are certainly in favour of stable and quality employment. Access to public employment must take place from the outset, respecting the constitutional principles of equality, merit, capacity and using legally established procedures. The existence of temporary contracts must be of an accessory nature and only for the cases, conditions and times covered by the legislation in force. The various governments of the Generality, in addition to their cowardice in the management of day-to-day affairs, have systematically failed to comply with the legislation on the recruitment of public workers. The solution proposed today by the CUP to solve this serious problem is in the same way as this political formation usually uses: that of direct confrontation with the State. In this case the CUP proposes a legal change for which this Parliament has no competence. Article 149.1, paragraphs 7 and 18 of the Spanish Constitution provides that the content they wish to regulate by means of this Law is the exclusive competence of the State. This proposal is part of the strategy that has been systematically used by the various nationalist governments of the Generalitat de Catalunya, trying to conceal their incompetence and mismanagement, trying to blame the State for all the evils, which they have generally created themselves. On the other hand, during the period of time of processing of this bill in this Parliament by the Government of Spain has been published in the official bulletin of the state of 7 July this year, the Royal Decree Law 14/2021, of 6 July, of urgent measures for the reduction of the temporality of public employment. We are not going to evaluate here the decree law of the Government of Spain, but just read the statement of reasons for this rule to ratify the competence of the State in this matter. So, on the part of this parliamentary group, there is a recognition that there is a problem in the timing of public employment, which becomes greater than in the private sector. The concern of the ninety-thousand employees affected by this situation and their families is understood and the successive governments of the Generality are guilty of this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.218.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, has the word Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.219.0	Bona tarda, councillor, members of the Bureau, deputies and deputies, so bona tarda. We're talking about a problem, a real problem, right? , these 215,388 employees and public employees that we have in Catalonia of which 55,580, approximately, are internal persons and 16,273 are temporary workers; a 33.35_percent of the temporality to the public office of Catalonia. A 33,35_per_cent that is, obviously, years away from this seven_per_cent of European Union temporality or from this twenty-i_per_cent of the temporality rate we have in Catalonia. Because the temporality rate in Catalonia is twenty-i-u_per_cent, but the temporality rate to the public office of Catalonia, of the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia is 33,35_per_cent. It means that we have a difficult problem of temporality at the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia. And we have a hard problem, but it's threefold: it's a problem for people, for people who are working as interns and who are therefore in a situation of instability and uncertainty in relation to their professional future, but who are obviously devoting and thanking all their personal efforts to ensure that the public service, the General Administration and the public services they give work. But we have a problem with the functioning of public services, because some public services in which a 33,35_per_cent of their staff is in a state of instability mean that it is a public service that is developed for people who have professional uncertainties, and at certain times it can generate elements of demotivation, apart from the problems that it may have about occupational health, that it is shown that uncertainty and insecurity also generate problems of work efficiency. And we have, say, three problems, because we also have a problem for the same Administration of the Generality of Catalonia, a problem of efficiency, trust and credibility of an administration that has been unable to place temporality taxes at normal levels. Therefore, we have a problem and a difficult problem that affects, I mean, people, administration and public services. But it is a problem arising from the mismanagement of the Public Administration, the Administration of the Generality. Because we cannot forget that Catalonia today is, unfortunately, the only one of the nationalities of the Spanish State that does not have a law of the Catalan civil service. We are a king by a legislative decree of the year 2000... – I'm sorry – of the year 1997, of the last century, obsolete in good part. But a legislative decree that has an additional provision according to which it mandates that two years ago is made a law of the public service of Catalonia. Where are we? Did you see him? No, no, Since the year 1997 we have had an administration, different governments of the Generality that have not assumed their responsibility to make a law of the public office of Catalonia that ordered the assembly of the Catalan public administrations and, therefore, also of the labor relations that must be established in their march. And we carry, then, years without convoking places, years without creating vacancies, years of failing to carry out legal mandates, years of failing to carry out even all collective bargaining agreements at the general table of the civil service of the Generalitat of Catalonia: the year 1995, the year 2005, the year 2007 and the year 2017, which placed the Government of the Generalitat – and thus had granted and signed the same Government of the Generalitat – to convoke oppositions, to break vacancies and to stabilize people. And it didn't happen. We have a problem and we have a problem to solve. And I can solve it in the recognition of the various feelings that today have recognized this abuse of inter-initiation, this abuse of temporality, European feelings, clearly, and also some of some higher or supreme court – pardon – the Supreme Court, which has a sense of the social room that affects the workforce, but also clearly situates this abuse of temporality. Therefore, this problem should be solved in the context of the recognition of these feelings, also in the context of the recognition of the contributions that the people are making, which they have made to the service of the citizenry, to the service of the functioning, so to speak, of the Administration and of the public services. But obviously, too, we need to solve and solve this problem with respect to the principles of publicity, equality, merit and capacity, because, if not, we would also have a problem. Therefore, we have a problem and can solve it by guaranteeing three things: the feelings, obviously, the situation of the internal people and at the same time guaranteeing these principles of publicity, equality, merit and ability. And it's precisely here at this point where we have to put it in value and I think it's right..., before Yolanda Díaz, the vice president of the ministry, has quoted, because, precisely, we need to put in value the provision that the government of coalition of the PSOE, United We can, in Comú Pode at the state level, the willingness to negotiate and agree with the most representative trade union organizations of public workers, employees and public employees to unlock this issue. And thanks to this agreement that the government and representative trade union organizations make, we have the opportunity to address, what is being done at these times, elements that allow to reduce the temporality to a maximum of the eighth_per_cent; that allow to eliminate the repositioning rate and, therefore, to create new vacancies; that allow to put into value the professional experience, the recognition of the dedication and professional expertise of the people who have worked, and that also situate the issue of compensation in case there is any person who can be left without pleasure. This agreement which was closed on 5 July is the basis of the royal decree which is now validating itself with amendments and such that it is validating itself in parliamentary negotiations and that they are the ones who have opened a way to the resolution of the problem that we have on the table. And that's because we value it and recognize it. But this is a problem that will need to be solved in Catalonia, both in the Generality Administration and in local administrations, which will maintain the capacity, both the Generality Administration and local administrations, the ability to call and, therefore, to negotiate, in the areas that correspond to them, with the legal representatives of the employees and public employees of their field, the ability to negotiate various aspects in relation to the calls that are to be held. Therefore, the debate on the item submitted and the proposed bill submitted cannot be overshadowed. What we understand is that we must clearly open the debate here in Catalonia in order to establish the legal framework that is compatible with today's approval of the Congress of Deputies and Deputies, and it will take time for the solution that CUP has here in Catalonia to be legal and aligned with the new legal framework that is being adopted. It will therefore be necessary for the Government to understand that addressing a problem of these characteristics here in Catalonia requires, first of all, political will – it is understood – but also a legal framework that facilitates it. But it also needs to establish and recognise collective bargaining marks with the legal representation of employees and public employees that allow translation and finalization of the stability processes to be put into the loop. Because, beyond the legal rule that we define, it will also be necessary for the Government to understand two things: that it is necessary to size the public services of Catalonia to the needs of a power of well-being that gives satisfaction to the demands, the urgent needs, the inequality, the problems, so to speak, that has this country. Let us not forget that today Catalonia has the seven_per_cent of workers and public workers in relation to the total active population. We are the autonomous community of the State that fewer employees and public employees have in relation to its global population. We're close to Navarra; you've got seven and a half, I've got more than we have. We are close to València; it has a point and a half more than we have. We are close to Madrid; it has a point like two more than us. This is Galicia's llune, this is Basque country's llune, two long points. We are under the middle of the State and we are obviously under the middle of the European Union because the State is under the middle of the European Union. Therefore, we need to scale, to create new work places, because with the creation of work places it will be much easier to stabilize the people that are already there today so that we can offer vacancies that allow them to place themselves. Therefore, it is necessary to size public services well and to offer all vacancies to opposition contests. It is possible to offer all vacancies to contests opposition contests, to contests of merit, whatever it is. But all vacancies have to come out. We must eliminate that practice in which the Administration reserves certain vacancies because that person does not pass it to me because I trust him. No, no, If we're talking about public service, we're talking about principles of equality, merit, capacity. And to add places that can generate mistrust in the city and, obviously, in the long run, problems with people who have them temporally and then want them to be definitive. Therefore, we will vote in favour of the parliamentary procedure. And therefore, we will vote against the threat to the totality. Not because we are against what the debate proposes to the totality in an alternative way, but because we understand that what it is to open the debate and that contributions to the alternative law project can also be important elements to make the debate in the parliamentary process and, through papers, build a legal framework that we need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.220.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan Garcia has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.221.0	President. Members, Members, today's debate we consider important, and it is because it has our public workers as protagonists, but above all because it seeks to solve a situation that we consider unfair: that of temporary workers and the unbearable working time that our Administration has suffered for years. And for years we've been denouncing him from Ciutadans. The last was in the last debate, in the November debate, where my colleague Dimas Gragera was able to make that complaint on the same subject and the same legislative initiative. Because it is the same legislative initiative, it is the same text, and it is important that we take it into account for the explanation we are or want to do right now. I wanted to start by thanking the temporary and temporary workers for all the work they've been doing these years. We believe they are the victims of this whole situation. We believe that all those who have wanted to make a public opposition, who have not been summoned, share this situation as well. And I believe that this situation of victims has already been recognised or picked up by the Court of Justice of the European Union in a clear judgment, in which it urged the administrations – this is also important – to seek stabilisation formulas or compensation formulas for the temporary situation suffered by public workers in different administrations. As I said, the solution may not seem simple, especially because of how bad we think things have been done to date. But we want to send a direct message to all concerned: we want them to stay, we want them to continue working. From Citizens, from Ciutadans, we will be in all forums where a solution is discussed, to ensure that it is fair and legal; a solution that maintains the places of those who already work in the Administration and that does not cause injury to those who want to access them. Proof of our involvement in this matter are the movements in defence of the resolution of the Court of Justice of the European Union made in Brussels by our own group, including MEP Jordi Cañas, or the assumption of the commitment to the interim made in our autonomous programmes in Catalonia as well as in the national debates. In fact, this very morning we have done so or expressed it with the vote on the decree to which some groups have referred. It is also our request that the opposition processes to the affected places be stopped until a solution is found or found. We believe that there has been a genuine lack of sensitivity with interim and temporary public workers. The Administration of the Generalitat and its respective governments believe that – in this case it is – they are responsible for this situation. And if that is so, it also affects this government, it will advise. Today you are here, but... I think it also affects this government, which speaks, in some way, of this problem in third person even blaming the judgment itself as detonating a situation that we believe is not so, that we believe it is simply..., the detonating of this situation or the situation in which we find ourselves is the lack of the capacity to summon those places or to provide resources to the fight against the temporality of public workers and our departments in the administration. In fact, we consider the data to be acceptable. They've been talking about a lot of data. I have the data, or we have the May 2021 data. If we take and add interinity and temporary work, we go to a 40,7_per_cent of temporality in our Public Administration– a 40,7_per_cent– and they are your data. But it is also that there are bodies of the Administration that cannot have temporary workers or temporary workers, such as rural agents, security forces or fire extinguishers, that is, firefighters, so, if we remove all these bodies this real temporality in many cases on average exceeds forty_and_six_per_cent. And in some cases, when it comes to all that health services would be, it comes close to fifty_and_six_per_cent. Sanitary services, fifty_and_six_per_cent of temporality; after a pandemic, it's not bad, it's not bad at all. Or yes, it's very bad. It is true that this problem also affects other administrations, it has been talked about here, but it is that Catalonia exceeds or any Administration and any autonomous community. It has also been commented here, I will not repeat the same data. Instead, we see..., and this I think we have to say as a liberal party that we are, I think, sincerely, that in the end you have used resources to place those who think you have to be in the public administration, especially those who are high-ranking and those who have their own chiringuitos, for, let's say, use and enjoy as people who are in the shadow of the process, right? I think that precisely the speed with which they act in some cases and how they have let this issue die for a long time is a real horror. But in order to find a solution for those who keep their work, our public services and the work they do for all citizens every day, I believe that this proposed law presented by the UPC can be an opportunity. We sincerely do not like the text, we have already told it, we told it in November and we repeat it again, but we are at a stage..., a vote of the whole, an amendment of the whole. We're going to participate in the paper, we're going to try to build an alternative that has legal certainty. We believe that the current one has enough doubts, but we will not oppose it. In fact, we are going to vote against that amendment as a whole, as we did this morning to the text that has been tabled in Congress. We therefore do not want to enter into that debate. We believe and assume that the solution will be exceptional and that basically what the PSC has done in this case is what it usually does lately, that is to say one thing before the elections and after the elections, so it seems that the cosmes change. They have already done so with other subjects, with pardons... And, Mrs Moreta, you have made an efusive defense, or not, counterattack of this text. It seems good to me, but it is that one takes the debate they had in November about the same text, about the same bill, and they really look like another party. I don't know what the real PSC is. It's also true that that's a brand of the house, which I don't think we're going to be surprised, either, but at least we think they're going to have to explain very well to those who promised them some things before the election and now they're doing other things, why they do it. Or maybe they already know how to do it because they're used to doing it and they have no problem doing it, I don't know. Honestly, I... there comes a time when some things that the PSC has done I don't understand or share, it's a shame, honestly. Finally, I will finish as I have started, in all this time, like the rest of the groups, we have held meetings with workers affected by the desperate situation, in meetings that we appreciate, especially because they have explained to us their experience and we have been able to stick to two basic concepts, which are the merit of the capacity that they have demonstrated every day. Today we believe that this proposal may not bring the optimal solution, but it can open the space that finds it. They know the interims that can count on us, because politics add up and count allies. And this debate, these votes, the amendments as a whole have also made it clear, I think I have said this over and over again, who can be in favour of their demands and who against, and who they can count on and who they cannot count on. And, gentlemen of Esquerra, yes, it is true, you..., but, well, here anyway a whole series of strange betrayals have been transmitted, the commons, the Government of Spain, you vote one thing in Madrid, then you vote or you will vote something else here. Clear up. I do not know, they are their alliances, we are clear, we vote the same here as we voted in Madrid, but they will also have to explain to you..., we have already announced to you, as my colleague Jordi Cañas has done, that tomorrow we will denounce what was adopted today in Madrid before the European Commission, because we consider it – I consider it this way – a fraud of law as dictated by the Court of Justice of the European Union. They can count on us, public workers, they can count on liberals in Europe, in Brussels. And let's just get to work. I think it can be modified, I think it can be modified, it can be improved. And we believe that at least we can keep looking into the eyes of public workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.222.0	Thank you very much. And then, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Deputy Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.223.0	Thank you, President. Well, as usual with the CUP proposals, they make the diagnosis right, but therapy is a real disaster. The diagnosis is obvious, and we can all agree. There is an excess, a constant abus, of many years ago, not of this Government, of the former, of the former and of the former, and not only here in Catalonia, of the temporality in the Public Administration. Now, the problem is: how is that realistically resolved? To a great extent, to Western democracies, we have two systems of management of public office: the « continental, which names itself, which is the..., has as a paradigmatic example France, but also Spain, and the one that they make serve not all but some Anglo-Saxon countries, which is the spoils system, which is the practical substitution, depending on who wins the elections, of all the public administration, is of a small part that I kept the order during the interregne time, right? That's why the Reagan Administration, the Clinton Administration... I changed everything. Not us. We... and here every system has its advantages and its drawbacks. In the continental system, in ours, we have protected career officers before the political power, and this guarantees stability, a certain tranquillity and being able to think with a certain perspective, without being constantly pending elections. On the other hand, many people legitimately think that this excessive protection can end in privileges, as long as we are talking about a life work without any type of review possible. In the case of the spoils system, the advantage they have is that, as they go more quickly, the performance of the Public Administration is short-term – and this is quantified and evaluated – is more effective – that no one doubts – but, on the change, as they change more quickly, they also have an dependence on the extraordinary electoral cycle. Well, that said, you'll work on our system – you'll work on a career – enjoy unmatched protection, actually, but this calls for a change in clear requirements and maximum demand in obtaining the plaza. Changing this system may end up having some negative consequences for which you theoretically want to give support. This is either to make everyone work or to give everyone a permanent place just to give away the steroids, because it looks good before people who can be Protestant, when their claims are legitimate, can end up causing a functional inflation that always ends – what is said in the castle – like the rosary of the aurora, which is an intervention of the European Union, which is not precisely characteristic to make sentimental remarks about the issue. Greece's already been through this. Varoufakis – who had the soul of cuparian, especially because he had this same intellectual arrogance of thinking that he had come to redeem the world; at last it was the world that redeemed him – did exactly the same. And how did the question end? That not only the interns did not consolidate the square but that it was produced a brutal flap of the name of places of possible functioning. And that's what would happen with his proposal, because it's absolutely unsustainable and they'd end up paying just for sinners. So, in short, we have a tough interinitiation problem? Obviously. What's happened in the past few days? Also. But with proposals like these the solution would be to increase even the whole problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.224.0	Next, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Gloria Freixa has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.225.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies... well, today, if you leave me, I'll start my intervention with a personal note. I'm a professional lawyer. For more than twelve years I worked in a lawyer's office until the fanciful family conciliation, therefore, made you look for an opportunity in an independent body, of the Generality, in its legal advice, until 2019 I enter here with the Member of Parliament. Well, in the thirteen years that I occupied the acting place in this body, there was a single summons of objections, and it was just the year that I had been a child for the last time, with which I thought: "The neighbor. And the next one, you know, never came. Therefore, the subject we are dealing with today is particularly sensitive to me, and I want you to know that. Well, to the band of this personal point, I want to make clear the sensibility of my party, of Junts for Catalonia, on this subject. We have met repeatedly since the previous legislature with representatives of the thousands and thousands of people from all administrations and also from all walks of life: from the social, educational, health... The situation is complex. We find ourselves with the Catalan administrations with more than 55,000 interns, as has already been said, many of them of long duration and mostly women. And the Government of the Generality was and is aware that this situation can be understood. In the first appearance, Councilwoman Vilagrà, to the Commission of Institutional Affairs, has already expressed her concern, and, as she compromises, she has shown herself with the objective of ending this time and reducing it to the eighth_per_cent, which is also being asked of Europe. The councilwoman pointed out two ways: the first, that of the dialect, that of seeking the consensus between the different unions, the different departments, the affected plataforms, to arrive at a solution, and the second, the parliamentary way, at that time, and the surprise of today, which we then comment, through the law of the CUP, that we proposed to work among all folds. From Juntas to Catalunya we will give all the support you need to those measures that guarantee that this situation of eternal interinitiation will end, because we can never forget that the public administrations operate thanks to the dedication and effort of the public workers. And today we have to face this difficult problem in public occupation, the high temporality, which we need to resolve now, urgently, above all now and today. We were talking about the other day of the working environment, the lack of attraction of public service for young people, and what it meant to catch up, as did the same councillor, the public service, and hearing it in another way to make it more current. But this will be a topic that we will discuss some other day. Today, we continue with this situation that requires an exceptional solution to give out to these temporary staff who have not had occasion to consolidate their place of work, and who have been adversely affected by the absence of select public employment access processes. Therefore, this exceptional solution, which, to begin with, would perhaps be to modify the basic rules. The processes of consolidating the work places initiated by the Spanish Government with the laws of general assumptions have helped but have not solved the whole problem, and therefore need to act. And what has not helped much has been the constant limitation of the public offer to which we are subjected by the laws of the general assumptions of the State, with the famous repositioning rate of effect, which have raised even more these exchanges of temporary workers, preventing many of them from opting to consolidate their places participating in select processes. And add, as you have already heard from other Members, the jurisprudence. If the same Constitution would not allow a favor of some participants respect others, which we do consider: that we can now find ourselves with a supposition that would be exceptional and justified. And so we proposed to the Congress of Deputies from Juntos for Catalonia. Our Member at that time at the Congress, Laura Borràs, today President of this Parliament, presented an initiative calling for the amendment of the basic legislation of the public worker in an exceptional way, to call for a restricted turn of access to long-term temporary staff that in the last two years had not had any possibility to consolidate their situation. We are aware that, in order to resolve the situation, the text presented today by the UPC will be able to work, work well, because it has a legal basis, to solve in a real way the problem that we have today with this large number of interim workers. We are also aware that the Socialist Party today presents this message to the whole with the will to move forward to resolve this situation, but we would like to make it clear that we would like the role of all of us – the Citizens – to have in this Parliament and to have in Madrid. To the Socialist Party, I would like to ask you, in the first place... As we have already explained, Junts for Catalonia presents that initiative to the Congress of Deputies to modify the basic status of the worker. At that time, we are moving to the Spanish Government with the intention of making the European directive complete and also the Court of Justice of the European Union's judgment in order to resolve this storm of public workers' temporality, doing what we have the capacity to do, which is to ask the Congress to modify a state law. Perhaps some of the measures presented could be worked out, they could be agreed, they could continue talking to give out to this situation, through the law of stability of the public workers that are here today. But together for Catalonia, at that time, he acted and tried to find solutions, at that time, therefore, with the modification of the EBP. The Socialist Party did not allow this to be debated in Congress. And today maybe we'd like to ask why. Secondly, he is also in the hands of his party to end now, with the little room for manoeuvre that they leave us, with this repositioning fee, which sets us a sham and which does not allow us to make the public policies that Catalonia should be doing right now to compliment European legislation. And, thirdly, they speak to us in their text of compensations, of compensations that entail a cost, you know, absolutely insurmountable for the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia with the resources that you have now and today. We would therefore like to know whether these legislative measures are accompanied by any funding that we can apply to them. To finish, remember that today in Madrid he smoked..., he voted... [[relays]] - He's been smoking... [[the speaker laughs]] –, voted the controversial Iceta law. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, it's just like he's been around today, I don't... I don't know anymore... [[Some applause.]] Well, no, no, leave him. The controversial Iceta law has been voted on and we think that this law does not solve the problem of temporality, does not comply with the demands that Europe claims, takes on extra costs to the assemblies and to the Generalitat without an economic transfer, such as the goddess, compensatory, and also limits the competences of the Government of Catalonia above all for what it does to the plans of stability of public work. Still, I'm more open to working on this text that the CUP presents and to which we will support in everything that you also present today, that I think that at some point and with the will of all, we can end up marrying to give a definitive solution. And to our Republican leftist companies, with all the love that they already know I have, today Iceta we hope that they have voted with something to change, as they have said from here, they have faced them, but we hope that it is with this economic compensation to deal with this law, because, if not otherwise, we would not understand how we can compromise the assumption of joints and generality. And then show our surprise, because we understand that this text that we are voting here today, that of the CUP, is absolutely opposed to the text of the Iceta Law. And, therefore, it is a bit strange that we are voting today not on the text that the Socialist Party is proposing today and, on the other hand, we are voting on the Iceta Act when the two texts, as the Socialist MEP has said, were quite agreed. I hope that we can continue to work; I believe that in all marriages there are differences, and therefore in this sense I hope that we can do it together. I'm done. We would like to show, lastly, our support for Annabel Marcos and Pilar Smiles that, in order to complete their functions, they have rejected a complaint from certain people who do not even form part of this collection with little knowledge of their intentions. We believe that this is not the way to resolve the situation, with direct and personal legal attacks on public workers. Well, thank you all very much. He went on to say: "Go and smoke. No, no, [[Rialles.]] Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.226.0	I, lastly, have the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.227.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, Workers and Workers in Parliament, during the past parliamentary term, were various times that we went out in this Faristol to debate about public office. In all of them, there was always a layout on the table, a layout that was shared and that we have always defended, which was the application of 61.6, an article of the EBEP that we consider to be fully constitutional, as a solution to the inter-internship problem that we had in our country. 61.6, which other territories of the State have tried to apply, has rejected a negative response from various judicial jurisdictions; it is not provided with legal certainty. Throughout the past legislature, we were in constant contact and we kept in constant contact with all the affected collections. And they are collectors, they are women, of precarious jobs, of the lowest categories of employment in the Administration, who carry many years working in the public sphere, who are, in many cases, promoters of public services in our country and who have never been able to opt for a better job, who have never been able to opt for a better job in their job responsibilities and who have led the public services of our country. They all give us the same idea, they give us the same proposal: "Twenty years ago, fifteen years ago, two years ago I'm working for the Administration and I don't want compensation, I don't want to lose my job place, I want to continue working and I can continue doing what I really like, because all these years it's what I've done; my training was precisely in line with the work I'm doing, and with fifty years that I'm going to want on the job market? And on the basis, precisely, of the resolution of the conflict, on the basis, precisely, of giving a viable response to people who are directly affected and who are clearly at risk of exclusion from work, on the basis of all this, in the last legislature we managed to make a meeting, informal, but that there were all the parliamentary groups, that there were trade union representatives and there were also representatives of the Government in a room of this Parliament and we all agreed that this situation would be resolved. The Republican Left proposal has always been the same. The Republican Esquerra proposal has always been: reform of the EBP, law of Catalonia, plato de xoc, immediate solutions for workers and public workers who are in a situation of law fraud and at clear risk of exclusion from work. She's always been the same and she's still feeling the same. Application of 61.6, denied until satiety. "It's not constitutional. It is not an article that can be applied because exceptionality is not defined. It's not the solution. Infinitely, they've heard it from this Faristol. Today it is recognized that 61.6 is a solution. Today it recognizes that 61.6 is the solution. Also, in the Congress of Deputies, with the processing of the royal decree of the Iceta, the "Icetazo, as it is known, we have converted a royal decree which did not have a sufficient scope of negotiation and dialogue in a processing of the law. We have converted a royal decree that imposed a temporary limitation to the call of places until the 31st of December 2021 so that this temporary limitation disappeared. We have achieved the recognition of 61.6, which we have always asked from this Parliament as a solution to the conflict in the interiors of our country. And we've also managed that the evidence isn't really an elimination character. Is that all? No, no, She's got a lot of work to do in the process. In the process of law we must open the door so that the processes that are currently being opened can also be applied to 61.6; that the interns that we have now also manifested themselves at the door of our Parliament can also be attached to the application of 61.6, because all this is being done for them. And that's the proposal we've always defended. EBP reform: that's what we did today. CUP law proposition: that's what we're gonna do now. Pla de coc des de l'ambit de fonction publique, avec la consellera ici presente, que estas que nous avous avenir aux de Gouvernement. The three lines of action that we have always defended and that we continue to defend because we believe that it is the one with the greatest legal certainty the procedure, because we are convinced that this is the procedure that actually solves the problem. With the application of 61.6, we, from the Parliament of Catalonia, have a duty and it is precisely to return to the interiors when their own administration has not given them; to return to the interiors dignity; to return to the interiors their work ability and their recognition of their task in the day-to-day; to return to the interiors this specificity, this exclusivity that is defense in 61.6 so that they will never be more concerned about their place of work. And that's what we can do and we have to do it on the basis of the CUP law proposal. We need to define who are the criteria that define this exclusivity, this specificity, because the judge of the place can drop the legislative initiative that we are working in this Parliament. And to do so we also have to take into account the basic regulations, the basic regulations that unfortunately, until we are still a republic, is still marked by the Spanish State, the basic regulations that involve the reform of the EBP. If the decree of today's decade – if the decree of today's decade – had been put down again from the table, would we still have the opportunity to work it out, would we still have the opportunity to solve the problem? This is a question that we also have to ask ourselves and that is very connected to what we are doing here today. We're making a deal. We complete the agreement with the CUP that we would facilitate the processing of the bill's proposal. We complete the agreement with the CUP when the PSC calls us and tells us that if we want to add to its initiative and the answer was clear, meridian, on our part: we have an agreement with the CUP, we will complete the agreement with the CUP. And that's what we're doing today. When we talk about interinatge and talk about temporality, our concern and concern about it as Members of the Parliament of Catalonia is its reduction and to be able to reduce this temporality, so that we take urgent measures of character, and to be able to reduce this temporality, so that the State gives us ample support to take these measures. If not, it is impossible to complete with the eighth_per_cent fee. While there is the active repositioning rate, it is impossible to cover or reach the goal of the eighth_per_cent. And that's what we voted for today in Madrid. Therefore, before this situation, Esquerra continues to be where he has always been: defending the reform of the EBP, parliamentary sovereignty for this specificity and this exclusivity and making it clear that what we will do here will have the maximum legal certainty and, therefore, guarantees of compliment to the workers and public workers of our country. I, from the field of public service, directly – directly – focus on these calls so that they arrive in time the standards that protect labor rights and protect these places of work. Left we follow, and left we follow, because our obsession is at the side of the demands of the internals that we have at the very least of Parliament. Our obsession is to give a solution that is actually feasible, a solution that is actually possible. Thank you. [[Some applause. Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.228.0	After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote of the debate on the full return to the alternative text submitted by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress. The vote begins. With 33 votes in favour, 99 votes against and 3 abstentions, as long as the full return of the alternative text to the law's proposal has been rejected, this initiative remains rejected and the publication of the alternative text is ordered as proposed by the law in accordance with Rule 116.7 of the Rules, and its processing continues. [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a committee to follow up youth policies]] [[252-00006/13]] Let us therefore turn to the eighth item on the agenda, which is the proposal for a resolution to create a committee to follow up on youth policies. This proposal was submitted by seven parliamentary groups: the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, the Republican Left, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, and the Parliamentary Group of Common May, as well as Ciutadans and the Joint Group. As agreed by the Board of Spokesmen at the meeting on Tuesday 6 July, we did not foresee any intervention at this item on the agenda, and therefore we are still voting. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Pause.]] The vote begins. Right now. The motion for a resolution on the establishment of the Youth Policy Follow-up Commission was adopted with 120 votes in favour and 11 votes against. [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a committee to monitor children]] [[252-00007/13]] The new item on the agenda is the proposal for a resolution on the creation of a committee to monitor childhood. Similarly, like the previous committee, we did not foresee interventions at this point, and therefore we proceed directly to the vote. The vote begins. With 121 votes in favour and 11 votes against, the proposal for a resolution on the creation of a committee to monitor childhood has been approved. [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a study commission on the police model]] [[252-00008/13]] The point of the agenda is the proposal for the resolution of the creation of a committee of study on the police model. This proposal was presented for the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, Joints for Catalonia and the Republican Left. In the first place, since the Councillor d'Interior has asked to intervene, has the word Joan Ignasi Elena.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.229.0	President, Members and Members... I would like to begin by thanking the groups that have taken the initiative to open the debate on the police model, and I would like to invite all Members and Members to participate. To participate in it, and to do so without any apprehensions. To do so with serenity, with rigour, but above all, without apprehensions. Not thinking about the proposals they make, if you see such a political organization or such an association, entity or movement, but looking at who are the concrete proposals they make, and their validity and opportunity. Look, I've said that on various occasions, but it seems to me that talking about the police model is very important that I repeat it. Many, many of the proposals that have emerged from alternating movements, from social movements, from entities, from proposals that were, we could say, marginal or that did not occupy political centrality and that were collided with skepticism, on many occasions have ended up feeling hegemonic, central, consensus of the majority of this Parliament and of the country. I have spoken to them on occasions, in relation to this, about rubber drivers, for example, that 2013 is being talked about, and initially it was seen with a lot of fear, probably understandable to many sectors, and in the end it ended up feeling a broad consensus and at these times it is to society and also in this Parliament. But it's not so much, it respects the agents' identification number, and, much more in between – remember? – from the recordings; they were seen as an attack, and, on the contrary, they have ended up feeling a guarantee for everyone, also for the agents, and they are consenting in this chamber. We have..., and we demand that we put politics, debate and reflection at the centre of the discussion and reflection that we will have during all this time and that we abandon, let alone, apprehensions and partyism. Today I heard some comments from some groups about some brazen defenses of the Mosses. They won't defend them more than I do. But I never said they were a political cop. And some of those who today defend and are giving pit copies defending the Mossos, accused them, these very people who are now, of being a political police. We abandon partyism, this is partyism, and we place politics, debate, reflection, proposals, contrast, experts, opinions, active listening to each other to improve our police. We are talking about criminal networks, about the new criminal networks; we are talking about public order, we are talking about the new rapes, the old and the new rapes, which affect the most vulnerable and above all, above all, we do not have to do this debate with serene. Look, I have the opportunity to go – I won't say every day, but often – to many clerks and to talk to many agents. And I assure you, they have no idea about this debate. And I'm convinced we have a very good cop, and you know why? So surely in part and in good measure because they have never thought they were perfect and always, always, they have always been submissive to the reflection, to the debate, to the better, to the growth, to the enrichment, to the open gaze, to the active listening of others, of what the others think, of what society thinks. This is our police, a police that evolves, that changes, that improves, that advances. And that's how things are, it seems to me, and that's exactly what our... our obligation, the obligation of politics is. It is from this attitude that we seem to have to approach this reflection and this debate: to make a better police. Because making a better police force, a police force closer to the citizen, is also making a more effective police force, which guarantees more and better security from a broad and comprehensive perspective, which is what we defend. Therefore, I invite you to consent and I invite you to reflect and I invite you to change too, because it is good and good for our police, to ensure more security in their actions, more acceptance and closer to our society. More transparency, too, as we've done day by day to get better. We are there, from the department, collaborating in this, as said, active escort, in this need to listen to many voices. And we want there to be a lot of input from everyone – from everyone – from civil and human rights entities, from unions, from professional associations, from experts of all kinds, from here and from outside and from all perspectives, from legal to security experts, from security models. All looks are necessary to enrich us. We have a year to do a good job. And it's obvious that to start looking at what's happened. And, in this sense, it's fundamental... and we share, in this sense, the proposal made by the Socialist Party, in the sense of saying: the first thing we're going to do and what we're going to do is to analyze what's been done and what's been done, and what's been fulfilled, respect for the committee that was there in 2013. Because this thing about the police and their model and their public order model has already been done. And that's exactly what made it the best. And the debate we have now is what will allow me to go back a step further and keep getting richer and moving forward and doing it closer to the citizenry, which is; making it more democratic, which is, and guaranteeing what is its obligation and what we need to demand and do, which is security. Safest security, safest security for everyone and, in particular, safest security for the most vulnerable in our society. I invite them and place them to do this debate, I insist on it, without apprehension, without by and with constructive will and consent. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.230.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, to present the motion for a resolution, the four proposed parliamentary groups will intervene in a single two-minute intervention period for each parliamentary group. And, later, the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units will intervene to advance the defense of the papers presented. And, then, the rest of the groups to fix their position, also with a time of two minutes. Therefore, now, in the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Mrs. Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.231.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies... It's an important day, I feel honoured to be able to do, as representing the People's Unity Candidate, the CUP - A New Cycle for Winning, those who are always entitled to anti-system, that we are always disqualifying the police..., and that, at the end of the day, with this insistence, persistence and compromise re-engagement, we help to make changes as important as those that are being produced and will also be produced from this commission. Let me, let me start the intervention with a little anecdote at the local level. In Badalona, when we ruled, we pushed a participatory process around security that ended up feeling an important change in the police model, a change of success. And when we were doing this process in a youth debate table, in which it was valued to what extent the presence or absence of police officers in the night octurnal areas would convey security, the young people's conclusion was: "Way of which police. If you're a proximity cop, yeah. But, if they are the Omega Unit... – the unit that we disarticulated, an anti-fouling unit that we disarticulated at once that we came in to rule –, if it was this unit, the young people say, "Don't make us, they make us feel insecure, because it was a unit that acted with pre-potency and with gratuitous violence. This anecdote, this conclusion, I think it describes very well what should never be a public security service, which ends up doing the opposite. And, therefore, it represents this necessity in some way that with the proposal that is presented today, with this commission, it seeks to give answer to a demand..., it is complete the duty to give answer to a majority social demand, which is accompanied by many people and entities working, from the movements of defense of human rights, especially civil, from different areas of anti-repressive struggle, to which I also want from here to aggravate their work and pressure because today the Parliament is taking this step. It is a demand that expresses itself with many voices and claims us..., we have the imperative need to put control tools, control tools on the work of public security services, especially when they work in the control of public order. We have the obligation to put in the most control mechanisms without knowing, moreover, that it is something that is taking hold of the world: controls from outside to ensure good practice and that there will be control over this practice. We've already done it here, the counselor has already said, I won't stop there. When Esther Quintana lost her eye, this committee was motivated to remove the rubber balls, but they lost their eyes. They've lost their eyes, there's been fucking shots to the head, there's been a lot of actions..., carousel practices, the use of the foam, the use of buttons on the waist... many irregularities that have led to this situation from the feeling of lack of control to the public debate. And on the other hand, it's also a public debate, it's also in the public debate when they're, for example, in the defense of private property, of the great tenors, in the defense of the right to housing, and they're in an action of repression of these movements. In short, the question is: whose service is it, whose service is the public security service? What security are we talking about? Tell me who I used to talk to? And that's why it's so important that this Police Model Study Commission that it's starting to work finally feels the biggest audience in the history of the Mossos that it's never been able to do, that it's a hundred-and-a-half degrees turn in the police model to get us in security to have a better model, to use the necessary means to ensure that they take action before bad practice, that they're a commission against impunity, in favor of a more humane, community-based security, in defense of rights, and, ultimately, a security at the service and at the side of the sick in front of the forts. I said this public debate before, didn't I? ...,meaning he's not free of populism. Often, and now it's not Mr. Illa, but he often did when in this debate he made sentences like saying, "Who doesn't defend the Mosses without locks or cracks can't take over the government, right? Saying that this paper that we have candidatures like ours, that we are questioning this lack of control before the bad practice that can be produced in police work..., and the answer that we make to it is very clear: it's all the opposite – it's all the opposite –. Anyone who pretends to defend Mossos or any other police body without cracks or locks is not prepared to rule in a 21st century, which must be the hallmark of human rights. And why, as I have always said – I also said when, as responsible for the Urban Guard in Badalona, I often had to face these demagogic criticisms – for any professional in the public sector, and for the police even more, which is a democratic public service to the civil service, there is no better recognition of good work, there is no better recovery of workers and workers than being strictly strict in the control of bad practice. It's the best for the citizenry and the best for the professional. It was before we were asking, that these guarantees in the control instruments are based on an international right: the right to lodge complaints before the competent authorities, which implies protection of respect before abuses and, in the event of suffering them, which is examined promptly and impartially. The State's obligation to investigate promptly and impartially in relation to the complaint, but also without a complaint, when there are reasonable grounds for believing that there have been violations of rights – we would like, in this sense, that Mr. Marlaska has given these warnings, right? That's what you need to investigate. The right to get repair and compensation. It has to be possible to get the repair and the State has to be and compare before justice. And these control mechanisms that exist around the world, exist in Brazil, in England, in Kenya, in Mauritius, in New Zealand, in Peru, in South Africa, in Belgium, in the Txeca Republic, in Denmark, in Hungary, in Israel... There is a lot of variation in the form of external control, this external audit to make this control of complaints, from right to right to complaint and bad practice. But there is also another point that we need to put to debate, important, which is the proper public order: lime? What, when and why? What role do the first public brigades have in the generation of violence in protests? Are we aware of the limit to the right to protest imposed by the State law itself, that it is urgent to repeal, and how many times in police action is exceeding even all the limits of this already restrictive law? It is necessary to put into discussion the assumptions that are often given for irremovable, because under the principle of rights and the freedoms of the citizens it is developed often public policies that structurally legitimize, above all, that the police bodies are in the service of capitalism, in the service of the interests of the State and not in the service of the rights of people, from rights to human security, of human rights. And so – and I finish – what this commission will seek above all will be that it is no longer criminalizing the protest, and, with sereneness, as the counselor said, we will seek how to put transparency, totally, transparency, lights and tachographs, before the police action; the creation of this control mechanism to which it refers, of police actions, which is independent, with the capacity of prosecution and punishment before the bad practice. We will also look for this external control of the Mosses and, ultimately, what we are asking for is a turn of one hundred and forty degrees. There must be an earlier and later committee with proposals for a profound change in the police model, the concept of security and, above all, in the transparency and taxation of the control bodies, which gives security to the citizen that this public security service will not generate free violence or insecurity for the people, but all the contrary. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.232.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, the Member of Parliament Marc Parés has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.233.0	Thank you, President. Well, the first one I would like to do is to thank the councillor for the good predisposition with which he takes up the creation of this commission, with an open mindset to debate, to listen, to reflect and with a logic of better. And, therefore, I think it's a good starting point and, in this sense, we wanted to thank him there. Well, many of us, surely, have the images of the U of October, of fucking shots of the National Police and the Civil Guard assaulting completely peaceful citizens who simply wanted to exercise their right to vote. Surely, there are many elements that make us never forget that day. Obviously, the emotion of a massive mobilization, the absurdity totally incomprehensible to fight the ballot boxes with tips, but also the disproportionateity of police action. That day, the action of the Squadron Mosses seems to have been an exemplary action, prioritizing mediation, and we understand that the consequences of using force were worse than the wire being pursued with its intervention. And that decision wasn't just certain, but, more than that, you know, and it became clear that it was perfectly legal. Clearly, two years later, however, we saw the same thing as the Squad moss acting, precisely in the mobilizations against the feeling derived from those facts, with practices that, in our view, are far from what is a democratic police and what we want the police of our country to be. A type of action that, in our opinion, rather than helping to resolve conflicts or solve things, what they do is feed a spiral of violence, and we believe that this is one of the sources of the problem. Shots of fucking from the waist, the carousel technique, which caused a hit that could have been fatal, the use of foam projectiles causing eye, testicular or pulmonary lesions, etc. I know that there are some groups in this chamber who question the concept of police brutality and tell us that we don't have any evidence of it. Well, I don't know how you define this type of injury, but in any case, and to give some data, during those weeks the Service of Attention and Denunciation before the Situations of Institutional Violence of Iridia attended to a total of 204 people assaulted by police bodies, sixty-one_per_cent of whom for foam projectiles or rubber pilots, twenty-one_per_cent for blows to the head, nine_per_cent for attacks on moral integrity and three_per_cent for assaults on the police van. The Greuges Synod also issued a report in relation to the next few days showing the violation of different fundamental rights and, more importantly, making statements such as: "Some police actions were disproportionate, especially those aimed at the dispersal of the masses and the identification and detention of individuals. Or the Synod said: "It is shocking to contemplate police charges accompanied by fucking shots at the discretion of those people without realizing that there is in those people in concrete neither a provoking pre-emptive behavior nor an attitude more than of resistance or passive opposition. I believe that the problem that we have before us is the problem of a public order model, which goes from far away and which is not solved, because, in fact, we have seen it on repeated occasions, until a few days ago, in the actions of the Squadre Mosos Cos at the time of carrying out the denunciations of vulnerable families. But it's the same actions that we've seen before and that we've already seen some in the mobilizations against the Bolonya plateau, that we've lived in the 15-M or that we've lived in the general wave of 2012, among many others. It is true that in the later years, surely, with the intensification of social and political mobilization, so there has also been or has been accompanied by an intensification of the episodes where the police, the Mossos, have made an abuse and disproportionate of force. In fact, last February, with the mobilizations against Pablo Hasel's arrest, we saw again abusive police actions that again led to the loss of an eye to a young protestor. Look, we can't allow Catalonia, today, with the police tools and the protocols in place, when you come out to manifest yourself, to risk losing an eye. I, counselor, in hard sap, but they can't wait. That is why the announcement that, from Comú Podemos, we have registered a motion for a resolution so that the government applies a moratorium on the use of foam projectiles until the committee that we believe today completes its work this year. We can't risk going back to the situation we've been through lately. Counselor, we ask you that, during the next year that will be working on this commission, or else modify the protocol of use of the foams to avoid an injury to it and guarantee its traceability or apply the moratorium that was compromised to apply Republican Left with the CUP. In fact, the traceability we believe is one of the key elements, transparency, because now it's up to each agent. And we could, for example, set up one-person video and audio cameras or cameras at launchers to ensure their traceability. This technology exists, so let it be served. As I said, we need to be aware that the problem is not one-time or only one-time. We believe that we have a structural model problem, because now we have a model of action that is, basically, a reactive model, of distance and very intense in the use of force and highly militarized in the type of tools that are used. And we defend that we have to go to a model that duplicates, that minimizes the use of force, just to minimize the damage and to guarantee the rights. In fact, the clearest evidence that the problem is not new, it is not solved and it goes back a long way is that the year 2013 – and the Councillor has said it is true – the Parliament has already created a committee to study police models that allowed us to make some advances. A committee that approved a series of conclusions, didn't it? And that demanded a series of better ones, which for us were insufficient, but which, in any case, were approved in this chamber. And the question is that today, many of these better ones have not been completed, which, in fact, recognizes many of the groups that certainly would not vote in favour of the creation of this committee. And in this case, therefore, we understand that you also felt that you incorporated the assessment of the results of that 2013 commission, of the compliment of that commission. We believe that we should actually review this, but that we should go further and incorporate elements into the debate, so we believe that we should contribute to democratising our police model from a human rights perspective. And I want to make it clear that for us, this is not a motion for a resolution against the good work done by the vast majority of the staff of the Squadron Movements, to whom we want to recognize their efforts and their willingness to serve the public, under certain working conditions that we also need to say they do not deserve. This is a motion for a resolution that has as its main and central objective the best of the Police of the Generality, with a human rights and democratizing look. With the creation of this committee, what we do is recognize that we have a problem with the table, and from here, as the counselor said, therefore, listen to the experts, know the experiences of other countries and have an informed political debate and it will be to lay solutions. In this sense, we believe that one of the central issues to be addressed by this committee – and so we place it among its main objectives – is the creation of control mechanisms. We believe that we need to improve the internal control mechanisms of the existing Mosos, that the DAI currently does not have enough tools, or that it is not functioning in a way..., as we believe that it should actually work hard at the end of this internal taxation task, and that there is a high corporatism in the body, that we can see how we manage; but, at the same time, we also believe that we need to think about the creation of external control mechanisms in the same way, as they have other countries, such as, for example, the Kingdom Unit. And so let me move forward in the debate and see how we do to put these mechanisms in place. Mechanisms that are guaranteed to the agent, the counselor said before, when the rooms were installed at the police stations, right? There was-there was a big debate, but in the end what was seen was that it ended up with the bad practices inside the commissariats and, in the end, it ended up going back in a better way for the proper agents. Therefore, in the end, there are better ones to revert to the body, because all those agents who do well should not have to be taxed. In fact, we understand that the mechanisms of control, evaluation and accountability are the best way to reduce the damage, because they are a highly preventive mechanism, that is, they have a preventive function, and they have been seen to work in other countries and, consequently, they have clearly reduced the damage. Therefore, we clearly understand that this is the next step that, if there is any doubt, we must be able to do between everyone in this Parliament. And I don't want to finish my intervention without a few words of grace to put into value the enormous work that they do here in Catalonia human rights entities like Iridia, like Amnesty International, like We Defenders, and the tireless task of organization like Eye with your Eye and Stop Goma Balls, which without them today we wouldn't be here taking a big step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.234.0	Thank you very much. And then, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.235.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors... I see that I enjoy two minutes – the president, who knows that we only had three in Congress... –, I will not go over, I will not run out of the term. Actually, with a minute it could end. We brought it to the Junts election program, part of the government agreement signed between Junts and Esquerra, the revision of the public security model, we agree with what the councillor has exposed. So we could end up here, but as it seemed to me – I don't have thirty seconds, all right now – that I wouldn't win the ego if I didn't intervene a little longer, I asked the previous insider, "listen, how should it be done in these cases? , to Mr. Roquer, of whom I am fond, so say « man, take advantage to advance, that I thought it was not the motion, but I see that other groups have made it..., the motion that we are going to discuss in this Committee of Study of the Model of Security. The other groups have entered and coincided substantially with it. I would like to make a point to Mrs Sabater: I think we agree with the background, but with something I think we should review the language a little bit. I think we agree on two main parameters: we have a good police, it's the police that solved the storms of August 17th, it's the police that acted the U of October, it's the opportunity to defend the Councillor Forn's interior dome, before the National Audience, and the feeling has revealed it. We have an excellent police model. But it's obvious – it's obvious – that, having a good cop, she's a cop that's not perfect, and that we've seen pictures and we've seen performances that we didn't like, and that's why we need to review the model. I need to check it out. Now we're doing a study commission... I'd say it's got to be a permanent thing, check it out. The Councillor said, the Councillor pointed it out, reviewing the model of security, the model of public security, must be something that the public representatives have to do constantly, because there is always room for improvement. And I think the phone book of what our performance is supposed to be is the phone book. The police must preserve public order, it is obvious, the councillor also highlighted it; the social progress goes for the defense of the most outmoded and, therefore, for the defense of all the fundamental rights, the first generation, such as life, physical integrity and property, but also the second and third generation, such as political rights, the right to protest, the right to privacy. And that is why, under this key to respect, at all times, of the fundamental rights, is where we have to establish protocols, the best of performance – which also coincide with what the Member of Parliament Serra said, of internal and certainly external controls of performance – because we have seen actions that we do not like. And we need to get better. I say, Mrs. Sabater, that I believe that the turn we have to do is not one hundred and forty degrees; if it is a turn of one hundred and twenty degrees, I would say that we are making it fatal and that we have to do it completely to the contrary, we have to turn around. And I don't think that's the case. I think we have a police, in general, a police model, a good public safety model, but obviously – obviously – very and very perfectable. So, I don't know how many degrees we have to correct the course, it's obvious that we have to correct it, but not one hundred and twenty degrees, which might be predicable from other Spanish state police, but not, of course, from the Squad Mosos. We will work on this committee with no one built, with no intention of trying, as I said, to improve all the performance protocols. But I also think that – we are, and we ask, counselor, and, know it, I think you will be too – we must be demanding. I was told by the Members who spoke before me: we can't tolerate any police abuses, because precisely that goes to the prestige of the whole thing. We want a police – Congresswoman Sabater has expressed it very well with the example of Badalona – in which the citizenry has confidence. Every time we see images of police abuse, which are certainly minority, but hold the image of the whole body, there is a growing distrust of the collection. And I think that when these episodes are given, we have to go out, and you first, counselor, to act forcefully, out of zero tolerance against police abuse. Therefore, from this committee we have much room to resort to, many questions to debate, from the projects of hunger... I don't know why this mania say to us "foam when it could be said "of shame, because we say" rubber balls and don't say, "gum balls, don't we? [[Widow's remorse.]] Surely, as Congresswoman Freixa said, we smoke mass. I leave it here, President; with five minutes, I think everything we have to say today is already said. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.236.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Lord Chakir the Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.237.0	Thank you, President. Good late, counselor; good late, deputies and deputies. First of all I want to thank the councillor, not his presence..., it is a question of parliamentary courtesy when it is a matter of a fact linked to a department that the councillor or the councillor responsible for the department is present, even though he does not want to ask for the word, but please him that he has spoken. Because I think it sends a message, with everything, of the seriousness with which we want to face this debate, and also for the whole, with the serenity with which we want to face a debate, which, said Mr Cuevillas, is certainly a debate that is continuous and that I am sure that, on a continuous basis, with political leaders of very different colors and with very different technical leaders, fans and continue to do so as much as in the department. And I think it's important to situate it. Mirin, in the current political and social scene of the Esquerra Parliamentary Group, we understand that the priority objective of the Squadre Mosso Cos is to be, he said, to continue to feel and to deepen further, to preserve the exercise of the civil and political rights of all citizens, with a specific look at that citizenry that is most vulnerable, because it deserves this specific look. And so very conscious that many, intentionally, do not stop remembering that without security or public order there are no rights. And I don't think I'm denying it, or much less, I don't think I'm denying it; now, these, sometimes, intentionally, forget a point, which must also be remembered on many occasions and always, that it is that without the defense and exercise of all rights there was no security or public order in a democratic society. And that must also be remembered. Without the defence and exercise of all rights there was neither security nor public order in a democratic society. And this is a complex exercise. And it's an exercise they're trying to do, and they're doing more than a thousand agents every day in this country. But we want to remember, because it's the key. It's not the debate of the ore and the chicken: if there's no right, it hasn't secured it. Don't let them come against us. And we also need to be honest and clear explaining that later on, there have been actions that have been objected to by criticism, criticism and questioning, and I no longer say in this chamber, but for an important part of the citizenry. And that means we have to act, for the self-defense of those who... the vast majority who do it very well. We have to act. And for this reason we want to make it clear that this commission of the police model that we are going to talk about in the first place is freedom and exercise of rights. Democratic societies need to be vigilant in exercising and defending rights. When it comes to defending a freedom, all freedoms are at risk. I think we have a lot of lessons in this country that respect him. And Catalan society is a demanding society; each time it demands more in the democratic quality and in the exercise of rights. And this society has a police force that is also demanding and that must also be more demanding around these exercises, without transparency, which is the other point that always ends up situating. Now, transparency isn't about simplification, it's about being aware of complexity. And let's think... and it's one of the challenges of this committee, this work around transparency, across society, across society, across the board, across the rules of the game, across all of us, across society, across the board, across the board, across the board, across the board, across the board, across the board, across the board, across the board, across the board, across the board, across the board, across the board, across the board, across the board, across the board, across the board. And that's not simplifying, that's being aware of complexity. Because, companies and companies, there will be many aspects to this committee that we will say in the first place: "Is that security? Is that a police model? Is this public order? But can you hear security, the police model, the public order, in a society, in the 21st century, like Catalan, without talking about the repte of housing? No talking about the repte of decent work? No talking about the repte of being able to live with dignity? No; there are no ponds. And we must explain this complexity and defend that the best way to explain this complexity is transparency, without debate. And among all of us, that for something we are representatives of popular sovereignty, mark the rules of the game and be demanding with ourselves, with the body, with society, around the rules of the game we mark, and be demanding with anyone who does bad practice. And, we said, they exist, just as they exist in any area, and we want to eradicate them. And the best way is with transparency, but explaining the complexity. For this reason, working and studying to agree on a police model suitable for Catalonia is the pact that we have reached in these four groups, and, as they have seen before, with different views. And that's important, and that gives it value. The courage of the CUP, the look of En Comú Pom, the look of Junts per Catalunya, the look – which I am trying to explain a miquette in first lines; we will see in the background to the commission – d'Esquerra Republicana. And we've seen it, but it's an agreement of the four groups. I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. – They have not done so much as the councillor as the Member of Parliament –, and not in the way we would like all of them, but we hope to join more groups. And that's why we were able to make a deal, which we thought was very reasonable. We've enjoyed trading more, surely, but we'll have a year of debate on funds – on funds. And I'm waiting for all of you, all of you, Members of Parliament who are in the committee and Members of Parliament who are not or are not, because we're also calling on this debate. It's a bet to reconvert the current public order function and model and see its low points, because it's honest to be aware that there are low points; eliminate the bad practices, and clear up and clean up, if they get out, all the responsibilities, because this is the way to do it. And it has to be done in all areas, in the police area and in any area. And that's the way we protect everyone. In the first place, the citizen and the citizen; in the second place, those public servants and public servants who have this responsibility – that little joke with the responsibility. That is why this committee will address many and many aspects, it will have to ensure that the information we have is transparent, both internally and externally, of the Department of Interior, of the police, both for what it does to the concrete actions that are carried out as for the protocols, circulars, orders of action that were going. And I will certainly be repeated, but we want to make it clear that the transparency that we have defended ourselves will make it possible to be clearer. Publishing the police actions that are carried out will allow us not to be critical of how it works if there is, obviously, an agreement of which is the model, which is the operational strategy to follow. Let's talk about a mechanism that will allow us to put some rules of the game in the abst especially of the citizenry – especially of the citizenry – and also, and I don't want to stop remembering, of the police body. Being transparent is certainly one of the key elements that we will have to address in this committee. He has questioned himself and claimed, and we have already spoken, to address the use or not of the foam, until now the Member of Parliament was in a position to present a PR. And I think we have to say it too: it has to be analyzed. And I'm sure the department will examine the PR. And we also have to say proudly that we have usually made passes before other things, as at least in the State. And do it, because we want to keep doing it. It is a clear bet to improve, to continuously assess and to improve, and to give the best response to our fellow citizens in a key aspect to defend their rights, which is the policy of security and public order. We'll have a lot of work to do, but it's an exciting job, it's a necessary job and it's a job that has to ensure the welfare of all the citizens who live in this country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.238.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, for the defense of the presented emena, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mr Ramon Espadaler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.239.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, we already have enough time to run the legislature, speed to create, in a certain way, how to look at the big issues, particularly in this case relating to the Department of the Interior, they will go focusing. And the feeling that we have from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites for Progress is that there are two possible approaches to the police thing, to the police body or to the questions of security or public order, in this concrete case, isn't there? One is from trust and the other is from infirmity. Closer to confidence means assuming the presumption of innocence in police action, as we obviously assume throughout the country; it means recognizing the rigour of the Squadron's Cosos de Mosso; it means recognizing its neutrality; it means recognizing its conformity to legality; it means recognizing its willingness to serve in this sense. This is the way we approach it, which I think is assembling enough in the way the people's conjunction approaches it. Sometimes... I was talking to some congressman about how much he's pushing and when he lowers the police cos credence according to which operations... I'll remind them of the figures of the questions of the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinio, which are highly valued..., it's the first institution, the most valued, that of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. And on the question of security – unfortunately, I can give you data from 2017, because we are waiting for the year 2020, but we still don't know the results – so the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra had a 7.8 rating and public management of 7.9 out of 10. We're talking about this, aren't we? That's what I'm talking about, too. Or they can approach us, therefore, from a point of mistrust, which leads to there, to mislead, to say that there will be many more elements of control, that there will be elements of external control, that will need to review the whole question of the police model, that it is a little bit the song that with different intensity and in different forms we have felt at the length of this presentation of the study committee, right? It has a very clear starting point, this committee, there are two resolutions voted for this chamber in the previous parliamentary term, one in the context of a general policy debate, the other in the context of a debate on the pandemic, to which the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Advance did not give support, voted against the two, and has a question that is legitimate, but which we do not share: the agreements that give birth to this government, the main one, I believe that the hard core of which we are discussing, is, therefore, the agreement between the Republican Left and the CUP of March 23, if I did not err, that the one that is ultimately making this point of mistrust towards the cos of the Mossos d'Esquadra. Listening to the MP of the CUP, one almost above the conclusion that there are avalanches because there are anti-valves. For us it's exactly the opposite: since there are intolerable and unacceptable actions, we need to have a specialized police force to do it, don't we? And he fixed himself, in order to rebuff a little of this, in the words of his own adviser in the committee, in the first appearance in the committee; he said, "Listen, we have spoken publicly a long time," he said, "a long time, as if it were one of the great problems of society. They're his words. "It is a problem from the point of view of the dimension of the residual delinquency issue – the phrase is yours, counselor –, "0.01_percent of public disorder or temptation to authority, 0.01_per_cent – rebleats. He said: "It is obvious that we have to set priorities and proportions where they correspond. Radically agreed – radically agreed. We set priorities and place problems where they are and not where they are. For us both the police model and the public order model are good. Both the police model that we have donated to ourselves as the specific public model we believe are good. Perfect? Yes; obviously, they're perfectable. Why don't we talk? Yes; obviously, we don't have to talk. But it's counting on getting the models and turns of a hundred and forty degrees, matified later by Mr. Cuevillas, of Junts. Listen, maybe one-hundred-and-a-half degrees... What are we talking about when we're looking at the model? For us, the police model is good, first of all, because it's democratic. And the proof is that we're debating it in this dinner. Second place, because it likes internal and external controls. We talk about it here as if there are no internal control mechanisms. They exist, internal and external: judicial, parliamentary and other natural. Third place, because it's a modern model, both public and police. And also because it's based on proximity, which is a very important issue, which clearly defines our police. That's why the ciphers are also of high value on the part of the citizenry for this nearby bet, isn't it? And because it has a capacity, yes, to adapt to the time and society that is changing. And that's important. And that's why we're willing to talk about, which things are to be modeled on. But no matter how they find us, they want to change the model, subvert or alter a model that is essentially good, and we want to say it with this clarity and clarity. Is there space for the better? Yes, there is – the phrase is not mine – but there are no magic formulas. That no one is thinking that because we are now bringing in an element – that if we foam them, that if... –, we will solve the problem. The public order is complex by definition and, counselor, will have to come to compare here in full or in commission for the public order always. Because if the Mosses are more passable, they'll cry them on one side of the hemicle and if they're more active, they'll cry them on the other side of the hemicle. And that'll be it. And that's it, and it'll still feel that way, right? But in any case, it's important. What are we talking about when we talk about public order models? So we believe that there are three different plans that tend to confuse us. For one thing, there is the model of protest management in a modern and democratic society, and here there is a way to talk, to debate; a model of police management, and we have chosen, collectively, the model of proximity, and a model of public order, which we have decided the model at a distance. When it comes to ‘model', the person with whom I tuned the most is the representative who came to see us from Amnesty International, and we agreed that when we talked about ‘model in public order we were talking about model to distance, that it is the one that has some concrete characteristics, that keeps distance, therefore, uses certain instruments, much different from that of proximity, that is the thing to itself, that needs more agents, that it has very different instruments, from horses to kids, to extendable defenses, etc. Therefore, let us clarify, first of all, what we are talking about when we are finally talking about "model". Our model, also from the perspective of the public order, is good because it makes this use of distance and proximity in an important issue, in which we are pioneers – in which we are pioneers – which is mediation before and during, and also, if you climb, after demonstrations. And, therefore, this for us is a good police model, unfortunately, so, now some of the vague reformulate, as has been said from this rostrum. If we read the title of the motion for a resolution we would add that we are not speaking only of a public order, that there is one who wants to go far beyond what some have said in this forum, about the police model, not the public order model, about the police model. That's another different size that we won't play in, right? Without doubt, I would like to see..., in my second observation..., I would not like it, in my second observation that it is the second triumph, on today's day, on the part of its members of government – and I see that they agree – of the CUP; they have ended up imposing it not to review some aspects of public order, no, the police model itself. And I see you're feeling it, Counselor. I'd certainly be worried. In fact, his words I thank, to the agrareixo, we take the glove of these non-priorities, but I explain to them also to his support of the CUP. Because if someone has come here with haste, condemning the General Information Commissioner, in the text and in other proposals, it is precisely those who support the Government, right? And we feel alternate as the first group of the chamber in the name of deputies, and as such we have alternatives. And that's what we wrote in a young lady. Because we don't have enough to complain about. We disagree with some of the things they raise: we offer an alternative; an alternative that does not go either to question or to weaken the police model or the public order model, but to strengthen it, to improve it, because it has aspects and resorted to better, obviously, aging for its effectiveness and its efficiency, with some important elements. The first, and I am grateful for this clarity, on the part of all the groups proposing the proposal, which accepted our point in saying: "Escoltin, let's start by reviewing what's left, from 2013. I won't read them, but there was the obligation, the mandate to make a law of public space, to elaborate..., to intensify collaboration with the prosecution and the judiciary, to draft a protocol for communication media, etc. It is long, the list of questions, that I believe that a part of which has not been completed. Let's start this way. And we say more, and I'd like to point out who are the most important. And the most important thing is that we believe that the final balance of this year's work that we have ahead of us in case it can be – and this is a clear red line for us – the affluence of the collection of the Mossos, to which we entrust it to guarantee public order, restore public order. If the final balance is that we continue to give a warrant to this police force, but we do not give it the necessary tools or support some and we do not give any alternatives, we have made a bad deal, allow'ml'expression, for the joint of the country. This is our red line, these are complex and difficult balances. Therefore, we will not support this initiative. We appreciate the fact that we have accepted the message, and for this reason we move from a no to a abstention, with this willingness to dialogue, but also with these very clear red lines, which we must respect, that we must learn the police, that we cannot question a model that is good, because it is democratic, because we have spoken it. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] And because it's close and because it's what it wants and it values the city council as it expresses all the questions, it makes them the institution or the body that makes them. Many thanks, Madam President, for this generosity of time. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.240.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Next, to fix the position of his parliamentary group, he has a maximum time of two minutes, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the deputy Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.241.0	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Counselor, for your presence and your words to the Chamber today. We are presented with this proposal for the creation of a new parliamentary committee to study the police model by Esquerra Republicana, Junts, CUP and En Comú Puem. From the VOX Parliamentary Group we do not agree that a parliamentary committee should be set up to discuss an issue such as the police model, security and public order, when there is an appropriate committee to do so, which is the Committee on the Interior. A specialised subcommittee could even be set up, under Rule 62 of the Rules of Procedure, to give greater technical character to the debate on the police model. We are debating, yes, but in the Committee on the Interior where we are represented all the parties with parliamentary representation. We do not like this proposal to set up a committee to study the police model for a number of reasons. Firstly, because we do not share the starting point of the proposing groups. We understand that the Mossos d'Esquadra are a professional and democratic body; the proposing groups understand that they are "a public danger, in the textual words of the MP of the CUP Mrs Dolors Sabater". The whole exhibition of motifs distills, emanates a huge tuft of suspicion towards the Mossos d'Esquadra, of constant, constant and fierce criticism of their performance; it speaks of police abuses, of follow-up for ideological reasons, of violation of fundamental rights and other claims that are joyfully said without any proof. And, look, no. Police abuses, systematic violations of fundamental rights are being committed, for example, in Cuba by the communist dictatorship – very friends, by the way, of the CUP and of En Comú Puem. What seems to us to be barbaric is that a Member of the CUP calls the Mossos d'Esquadra public danger, which calls the police model repressive. That's not our concept of the Catalan Police. And the serious thing is that the party to which this deputy belongs is the one that has put on the table the requirement to negotiate the police model as a requirement to reach or close a government agreement. It is the anti-system, supported by their communist friends from En Comú Puem, who carry the baton, mark the agenda and impose their conditions on the police model to control the Mossos d'Esquadra with the complicity of Esquerra and Junts. In VOX we do not agree with this premise and with the explanatory statement of the proposal presented to us, which aims to build a fictional narrative to permanently criminalize the Mossos d'Esquadra and its performance. For us, the police model – in this we share the position of the PSC – is good, modern and resists any comparison with other systems in our environment, which does not mean that it cannot be improved in any way, but we do not agree with that fierce, constant and widespread criticism of the Mossos d'Esquadra that is made from the parties that support the government. The Mossos are a body that deserves our respect, our consideration and all institutional support. Secondly, we do not like this proposal because the debate on the police model has to be a technical rather than a political debate, it has to be a calm and not hasty debate. And, look, the classics already say that in time of tribulation there is no need to move. You have opened this debate in the midst of the crisis caused by the riots caused by the arrest of the criminal Pablo Hasel, as early as February; "it is urgent to review the model, you have said on several occasions, and this debate must always be done calmly and calmly and not when riots arise, because when you have a conflict you cannot make changes at the same time, which is what you have wanted from February to this part. Thirdly, because the politicization of the Mossos d'Esquadra must be avoided; the Mossos must be removed from political controversy and partyism, which is just the opposite of what the proposing groups, at the hand of the CUP, use the autonomous police for political and partisan reasons in favour of independence. You take advantage of the Mossos for your political discourse and the Mossos always get hurt. We said the police model is good. And yes, it is good, because it is a model of public service based on three ideas: in proximity, mediation and proportional use of force as a last resort. And it's working fine. The whole model should not be revised, without prejudice to improvements being made. And you intend to make virtually an amendment to the entire police model. It is enough to read the object of the study commission that is proposed, and it is said textually that: "We must review... the public order model, revised the transparency of the internal and external information, revised the approaches of the information commission, revised the control mechanisms, revised the operating elements, strategic and material, revised the structure and organization, revised the human resources destined for the public order function, revised the operating strategies, revised the technology available, revised the procedures and regulations, revised the investigation mechanisms, revised the training mechanisms... In short, this is practically a demolition of the police model to establish a new order favorable to their partisan interests. In our opinion, the Mossos d'Esquadra need two things. On the one hand, they should be defended and, on the other, given legal certainty in their actions. And in this, counselor, today we attend the first assignment to the CUP, with the dismantling of the legal cabinet of the Department of Interior. And we think it's a bad start. It is also unacceptable, for example, that they should be given painting when they are carrying out a court order and from the department they should be ordered not to act against radicals. And it is also unacceptable that there are elected officials, anti-system deputies, witnessing a crime and doing nothing. That's not defending the Mosses, but the opposite. The Catalan police are fed up with the insults and attacks of the CUP and the insulting silence of the parties that make up the Government. Even the Professional Association of Mossos d'Esquadra states in a statement that they hurt the silences of politicians more than the stones of protesters. What is needed is to increase the strength, ensure proper rotation, rest shifts, because if the agents who have access to the use of force do not have correct working conditions, do not rest and above fail the operational guidelines of the commands, then we cannot require them not to make mistakes; errors, for example – and some have been – in the traceability of the foam launchers. And when the working conditions of the Mossos are the right ones, then we can discuss what is the most appropriate way to restore public order when coexistence is attacked, which happens, unfortunately, very often in Catalonia. We can discuss whether they should be foam bullets, whether they should be water cannons, but what is clear is that the Mossos must have the springs to act if public order is to be attacked, because acting is the essence of the police function in defense of coexistence and, ultimately, of democracy. In terms of transparency and control, the management of the Mossos is thoroughly audited, with the chambers of the police stations and the tasks of the Internal Affairs Division – it is one of the most controlled bodies that exists. But what is not acceptable is to pretend, as indicated in the proposal, to establish an independent external control mechanism, which is said to be a control mechanism for political interests. Look, the Mossos have internal control through the Internal Affairs Division, and if there is timely bad police practice for that are the courts and courts, which are responsible for deciding whether the actions of the Mossos, the citizens or any public authority in general fit or not to the law. In conclusion, it seems to us a very serious mistake to leave the design of the police model in the hands of the CUP, because it is like putting the wolf to watch the sheep, it is like handing over the springs of public safety to the violent Arran and other radical activist groups in Catalonia, it is like handing over public order to those who set the cities on fire, take the airports and cut the highways. And in front of that, we'll be especially vigilant on VOX, I assure you. And I want to finish my speech with a few words of support for Brimo. You can talk about different police models, but, we talk about the model that is being talked about, in all Western democracies there are anti-disturbing units such as the IPU of the National Police, the GRS of the Civil Guard or Brimo, or Mobile Brigade, of the Mossos d'Esquadra. All democratic models have different operational nuances, but here are three peculiarities that make the work of Brimo especially difficult. In the frequent episodes of violent disturbances in Catalonia we have had the opportunity to observe three aspects. On the one hand, the attackers are very violent and have no rules – the Mossos do have them –; in all cases of violent demonstrations, the number of violent people is significantly higher than that of the police and, unfortunately, Catalonia is the only place in our democratic environment where politicians and those who support the Government are constantly questioning, insulting and questioning their police. So all our support for Brimo, who has to do his work in the middle of a complicated clamp: on the one hand, the radicals; on the other hand, the CUP, from the institutions, and, in the middle, silence and lukewarmness complicit on many occasions in the Department of Interior. Finally, we hope, in the end, that this proposal for a committee will come from a new police model and that, of course, it will not pretend that there is no Brimo in Catalonia, there will be no unity of anti-disturbing, because if we are not giving reason and weapons to the radical parties that act in their broadest. Because if you burn down the street and the violent cause personal misfortunes and fail your proposal for a police model, then you will be responsible. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.242.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Matías Alonso, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.243.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I have to tell him he didn't convince me. Miri, counselor, on November 25, 2012, there were autonomous elections in Catalonia, and you presented yourself, for the PSC. It is true that those elections had been called, after a Day driven with all the strides of propaganda, with the intention of oblivion to Catalan citizens of the effects of the flaps of which they called themselves "Government of the best– I don't know if they remember– that they were provoking public opinion and that they held a leftover exhibition in the walls of organised mobilization under the slogan" We hold the Parliament on June 15, 2011. The electoral call, set only two years after the previous elections, in November 2010, was the initiator of the escape leading to Artur Mas and his Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, the most corrupt party of the European Union, with the Democratic Union of Catalonia to trailer. In order to prevent more detail, they said, organized, as always, around the extreme institutionalised left, they saw the light to the very astute Artur Mas: that better than the dose of populism to combat populism; that better than turning a day, the one of 2012, into a point of inflection that gave air to Convergence and covered its shames, than in having and having, many, and all on the basis of the institutionalized corruption that has been built over decades of personalistic and political power in Catalonia. And with this we came to the elections of November 25, 2012, the ones of the present legislature, those of the extreme populism of Convergence, embodied in an electoral cartel in which the Lord But is proclaimed to himself as the prophet who would open the needles of the Roig Sea, the only way, with his rictus of self-sufficiency, to carry the will of a people well– remember, of that electoral cartel, right? A Lord More, for sure, who has always made an accurate reading of what the people need. In fact, a few days ago, Mr. But was recaptured funds to face the bail required of him by the Court of Auditors in Eivissa and Formentera in a luxury iot, as does any middle-class Catalan who has to face the administrative consequences that may arise from his actions. Well, from those elections, in which CiU – the last time it served electorally the white mark of corrupt pujolism – got fifty discounts – twelve fewer than it got on November 28, 2010, and which divides more than those who got the current mark groga on February 14th of enguany – came out a majority to rule after the government agreement signed with Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, which, with twenty-one discounts – in tenia de 2010 – was the real winner of those elections. Seventy-one scons that, more than giving more impetus to the separatist drift embodied in the process, served to question and review the police model, specifically in the management and maintenance of public order. We have already had a deep debate and will be about the police model: the Commission of Study of the Models of Security and Public Order and the Use of Anti-Evasive Materials in Mass Events. The work of that committee of study was substantiated in Resolution 476/X, adopted by the plenary of this Parliament in its ordinary session held on 18 December 2013, more than seven years and a half and three legislatures. From then on, the groups that support this government, which are the very ones that promoted the study commission, have not done..., I would say that it is almost impossible, for the duration of the parliamentary mandate, to endorse the model of security and public order that was going on, and to equip the Mossos with the necessary means to be able to develop it with full guarantees of effectiveness and efficiency. On the contrary, both groups put together the successful governments to whom they have supported, have dedicated themselves to criminalizing the police of Catalonia in their public maintenance pocket, especially when they have had to face separatist violence, following on to the one who has become the partner who balances his government coalition in his constant struggle to see who says it thicker about everything he has to see with passing the outburst of democracy and with attacking, without modesty, the pillars of the social and democratic state of law. The Generality's successor governments have converted the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, especially the regional areas of operating resources, and above all the Mobile Brigade, into ostages of extreme left-wing populism seeking the disarmament effect of public security competition, for the benefit of its co-religionists and violent groups who aim to generate chaos and weaken our democracy. We have a public order model adapted to the operational capabilities of the Mossos, but the police of Catalonia did not have the necessary constraints for this competence to be effective in the long term. And you don't have them by express will of the Government of the Generality. I've already said, counselor, open another shot at the melo of public order with the pure objective of disarming the police is unworthy of a truly democratic government. Therefore, it is not strange people that this has not only spoken but has made it a priority with their partners. I also said to him, counselor: neither are we Germany, nor are we the United Kingdom, sovereign nations with a model of public order that is absolutely different from the agreement in this Parliament and that the last three governments of the Generality – and now also theirs – must set as quickly as possible and leave themselves with novels. Therefore, it means that they want to significantly increase the staff of the Squadron Mossos that will specifically look for the maintenance of public order as a guarantee of being able to reconcile the free exercise of the right of manifestation, with the right to do so in peace and freedom and without restricting freedom and coexistence with the rest of the citizenry – always majority – which is not manifest, the current model, the maintenance of distance and the availability of robust tools that allow control and control, if necessary, the demonstrators who practice violence, continues to live and continues to feel the adent. But counselor, I just need to read the motion statement to find out where we're coming from and figure out where they're going to bring us. Mr. Torra, when he was president he already criminalized the Generality Police, the Squadron Mosos, for doing his job during the serious scandals provoked by political groups who use the system to try to shatter democracy, with the use and abuse of public space to impose their totalitarian ideas. And the usual populism of the Government of the Generality, which we skate persistently and continuously since the elections of 2012, as I gave them to the beginning, has ended imposing itself and they do not have the slightest blush to serve the Mossos as the currency of change to keep the low majority that has come out of the ballot box. A majority of whom, we have seen in a clear way, are irreconcilable enemies, with ideologies that only have a point of finding: the will to achieve the imposition of their il-liberal ideas and not to give to the republish of dessert ice cream, that in which totalitarianism that they wanted to impose in September and October 2017 is evident in their proposals, self-proclaimed laws of disconnection, and in their conducts censored for justice – this essential power of what an enemy has not done, because it does not bend to their anti-democratic pretensions and that it has even brought some of those responsible to justice for a few years – a hundred years, remember? Therefore, according to the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, this committee of study that the illiberal and reactionary majority that supports this government will make it possible today is all over and has no more objective than to weaken the operational capabilities of a democratic police that, in the hands of the general government's successors, has been too often questioned. We will not support this committee of study, we will not make the Mossos d'Esquadra a currency of change like this government which, now, under the baton of the Republican Left of Catalonia, the priority is to maintain the power and its advantages – of all known – over the general interest and the right of citizenship to have guaranteed at all times, with the maximum efficiency and with respect for democratic order, public security. We will not disarm the autonomous police, the Squadron Mosses, because we will not follow the populism that you and your members of the process want you to reign in Catalonia. Our will is to strengthen the social and democratic state of right and to defend it from the attempts of subversion that the self-proclaimed victims constantly push and execute from power and with all the strides they have in their abyss, inclusive media propaganda. When it's on the way, we'll see to it that the proposed groups don't get caught up in their pretense of disarming our police. Finally, I would like to express the surprise of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group at the debate on this motion for a resolution on the existence of a compromise which seems to be attached to the text which is finally voted on. In fact, I have rejected for WhatsApp this issue negotiated at 5.30 p.m. through the advice of my parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.244.0	Finally, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.245.0	Yeah. Thank you very much, President. The truth is that today, by chance, the Councillor asked us not to look at where this proposal came from. I wonder why it will be? I'm pretty clear about that. That the CUP was going to set the course for this government many of us already knew; that would be bad, too. And as it shows, today's plenary session. Not only have they brought us here today, they have brought us this motion for a resolution to talk about the "poor rapper Hasel", but they also bring us the creation of a commission on the police model that would not be bad if it were not because those of the CUP are seen the plumer, but kilometers away, already. It must also be said that they do not do much to conceal the fact that they pass day and day by also giving the baton, trying to criminalize the Body of Mossos d'Esquadra and treating them as they almost already assassins, in some cases we have heard even about police brutality and I have to say that this is also joined by the lords of the commons, who also like to invent such a story there. The truth is that what is behind this proposal has nothing to do with improving the police model or improving the conditions of the Mossos d'Esquadra or improving the security situation in Catalonia. What is behind this motion for a resolution and this creation of a committee is what I have said: it is a further attempt to criminalize the body of Mossos d'Esquadra and the actions that they have had to carry out especially in recent years. Actions, by the way, derived from the radicalism of formations like yours, in that effort they have to divide Catalan society by destroying everything in its path. Here we have seen, and also recently, in several episodes, but some very recent, barricaded in flames, calcined vehicles, destroyed urban furniture, almost fifty agents injured in these alleged protests for the freedom of expression of Mr. Hasel, assault also to a police station... This was the balance that we found after three days of violent altercations that later happened to account, I insist, of the imprisonment of Pablo Hasel, which is that « being of light that raps without tapuches exalting the terrorism of ETA. And before this, what was the answer of the then interior adviser, who was Mr. Miquel Sàmper? Well, what he did was he also pointed out to the Mossos as did the gentlemen of the UPC and said that the police model had to be reviewed as claimed by this group. I would like to recall that at that very moment Republican Left and the UPC were engaged in full negotiations to make Mr Aragonès president once and for all, and I know this because yes, that this influenced those negotiations? No, it's just that the president himself told us... the councilman himself Sàmper that, neither short nor lazy, in an interview he said that well, that he preferred not to talk much about what was going on or defend the Mossos in case that might hinder negotiations with the CUP, not to be angry with his anti-system partners. This is absolutely regrettable, Counselor. The attitude of the Home Secretary at that time, Mr. Sàmper, is regrettable. He dedicated himself to disempowering and unprotecting agents in order to protect and protect the incriminating theses of the CUP. Agents I want to remind you that you play your own life to protect the lives of others, especially, I insist, in those days of unrest, that it has been too many days here in Catalonia. Agents who, on many occasions, do not have sufficient means or the necessary support, but still go out to face, I insist, putting their own integrity and even their lives at risk. And it turns out that the Generalitat pays it this way, using them as a currency of exchange to achieve perpetuation in power and also participating in the point in which they insist some day after day after day after day. And we have seen it in this rostrum today in one of the previous debates. Look, we're not gonna be found there. I told him the other day when he came to the Committee on the Interior and of course I remind him again now: he will not find us either criminalizing the police or using them politically, let alone whitening the barbarities of speech that the masters of the CUP and the lords of the commons have and now, by the way, also Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya, who have joined the car of the palm trees. Why? Because they need them, they need them to stay in the government, they needed them for Mr Aragonès to be president and if they have to criminalize the Mossos, then listen, they join the car asking for the creation of this commission. I asked him the other day in committee and I ask him again now: leave the Mosses alone, let them work. You yourself said here: let's get it out, let's abandon partyism, let's get those out of the political debate. Then do it. Do it. But don't come here and sell us the bike that this commission is going to create you for the best police model, etc., because it's not true. You are claudicating to all the requests of the gentlemen of the CUP. Today you confirmed to us that now it turns out that at last, after several requests of the CUP, you have closed and transferred the legal certainty of the agents of the Mossos d'Esquadra, no longer have their specialized body, but now go to the common body of the other officials, when the actions of the Mossos are specific and therefore they also require a specialized defense. But of course, as the gentlemen of the CUP had endeavoured to unprotect them, for you have again squatted your head here. It just seems like the CUP plays the flute and the government goes after it. It's just that it's a real shame. I wonder what's next. What's next? Do you not already give them legal aid as Mr Sàmper suggested? Is that going to be it? Doesn't character know as a private accusation? Is that going to be it? Because that's what the gentlemen of the CUP are asking for too. So, as I see they order and you go after them, because I don't know. I wonder. I have these doubts – I have these doubts. What are the gentlemen of the CUP looking for? For, I insist, create a fictional account, a story that you have bought from them, but we have not. We're not going to sell the bike, nor are we going to participate in this absurdity and this attempt to take up hair. It's just that it's a hairdo. I insist again: if it were to talk about the police security model, we would be there. Now, to criminalize them, no. To get into your game, I'll tell you no. Because what they seek is impunity and we have seen it this morning with Pablo Hasel's motion for a resolution: they want to be tailored laws, institutions that do not bother them in their anti-system tasks. It's just that they're very busy with these issues. So I ask you: about the barbarities that we have heard here and that we have also heard over these months pointing to the police without any proof whatsoever, talking here about abuse of force, police brutality, outlaw proceedings, what do you think of this? Are you going to pronounce on this? Do you intend to condemn such accusations that, I insist, have no basis at all? Are you going out today in defense of the agents or are we going to silence again as we heard from Mr. Sàmper? Do you believe that the autonomous police are repressive as the gentlemen of the CUP believe? Do you believe that the autonomous police, the Mossos d'Esquadra, abuse the use of force or exceed themselves in their work, as the gentlemen of the CUP believe? Do you believe that there is bad practice within the body, as this proposal for the establishment of the study commission says? I, look, it's not hard for me to answer these questions, I don't even have to think about it, because I do recognize the work of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps; I recognize it, I endorse it and I thank it. Because, moreover, with the climate that we live here in Catalonia, with which the radicals have assembled here, it is not easy. And because, moreover, with a government that turns its back on them, it is that the situation is unsustainable – unsustainable –, Mr. Counsellor. And silence, which is often the government's response, is also an answer. Maybe worse, maybe even worse. What I am asking of you is not just to limit yourself to silence, but to tell us explicitly what you think of these statements that make groups as joyfully as the CUP or as the common ones. I'd also like to know what you think of Arran's jolgory, for example, after seeing that van, that urban guard van on fire with the agent inside. That they went out to celebrate it! What do you think, Councilman Elena? Because it seems like a scandal to me – it seems like a scandal to me. And I think that you should come out here in defense not only of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps, but, of course, do the extension to the rest of the police here in Catalonia. And I tell you that the agents feel unprotected – unprotected – and certainly today, after knowing what has not been revealed here, that at last it is going to make that transfer of competences in the defense, therefore, surely a step more unprotected still. They are known in the hands of the CUP rather than in the hands of the Government. I already tell you that we are not going to be accomplices, we are not going to be accomplices to this false and interested story that have some groups, this effort that some groups have to continue criminalizing the police, and especially the Mossos d'Esquadra. There was talk here that we wanted to work on a constructive plane. For I already tell you that this proposal comes on a destructive plane, not because it is my opinion, is that the CUP itself tells us clearly: they want to carry the Brimo..., they want to carry it absolutely everything. It's totally destructive. And so we're not going to find us there. I tell you, to talk about the police model, to talk about how to protect the agents, how to replenish the body, when they are going to return the 2014 pay, the extra pay, which has been seven years already, to talk about also the early retirement, the increase of the staff, the career plan for the security units..., for all that we set up the commissions you want and will have us here to talk about all that; now, to whitewash that speech, I insist, interested part and above all fictitious– fictitious – and invented, for that, counselor, do not count on us. And so we here are not going to participate in this laundering as some others do, such as the Socialist Party, with this amendment. It is true that buying the speech from the gentlemen of the CUP and the gentlemen of the commons, seems to me to be a real shame and regrettable also for the agents of the Mossos d'Esquadra. From here all my appreciation and gratitude for the great work they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.246.0	Next, and to indicate which text is put to the vote and which items are accepted, on behalf of the four proposed parliamentary groups, has the word, for a period of two minutes, Mr Chakir the Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.247.0	Thank you, President. With regard to the transaction entered in the register yesterday at midday, I apologize if there was any problem, but it is entered in the register, and the one we have transactiond, and we appreciate the willingness of both the Socialist Group to trade as much as I would like to thank the willingness of the four groups, which I also represent the other three signatory groups of the resolution proposal: the CUP, in Comú Pode e Juntes per Catalunya, is the slogan of the Socialist Party the point of – I have a good memory – that we have converted it into a point j between all the text. And it's registered, and if there's any problem with respect, that the deputy Alonso was in, we apologize for this situation. And we haven't come to any more deal. I think Mr. Swordler has in a way explained where the differences are. I think it'll be an interesting debate. I think he explained it, but we're also honest: the Catalan police are democratic, and as long as we do, that's why we're debating here. Therefore, it would be good if we did not make red lines of what to debate or not to debate. Because there will certainly be many aspects to the debate. I would also be passionate about how the police, like any other group, come together more to the society they represent, because they have changed society a lot. Just like I want health personnel, teachers to assemble in society, which is different, I also want a police officer to assemble in society. We could also discuss many other aspects, but what is important is debate, it is calm debate and get to that element that many times explain to us in an erroneous way, which is what Weber said, because Weber did not oppose the ethics of conviction and the ethics of responsibility, but rather the balance between the two used to be one of the most important exercises in politics. And I think it will also be one of the most important exercises in this area. And between all of us, we're all gonna have to settle these agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-21-1002.248.0	So now, after the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution creating a committee on the police model. The vote begins. So this motion for a resolution was adopted with 82 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 33 abstentions. And without further ado on the order of the day, we raise the session until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock.
