ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.1.0	Let's start the session. Yesterday was the International Day of Nursing, in record of the birth of Florence Nightingale, which demonstrated the value of cures in the care of patients. And today, which we are still in the middle of the pandemic, we are taking advantage of this explicit recognition of your pocket, your professionalism and your effort and regret the loss of 22,028 victims per covid. And also the 423 people who are still in the ICUs of Catalan hospitals at this time. For all of them a message of the soul. And renew the thanks to all the health personnel, who take care of us. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] Also, in conformity with the motion 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, I inform you that, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of 2021 621 dead and missing persons in the Mediterranean have been counted. And in the area of violence against women, we don't have to regret any new feminicides. The list of questions to be answered orally in the plenary, which is included in the plenary file, according to Rule 164 of the Rules..., will be replaced this morning as the first item on the agenda of this plenary session. Before we begin with the order of the day, the fact is that in accordance with the agreement of the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen on the celebration in reduced format of the plenary sessions, at the same time as the current circumstances of the pandemic for covid-19, sixty-six Members have delegated their vote for this plenary session. [[Ask the Government about the fiscal pressure]] [[310-00028/13]] The first point, therefore, on the order of the day, are the questions with oral answer. He asked the Government to respond orally in plenary on the fiscal pressure. The question is posed by Mr Antonio Gallego, of the Parliamentary Group of VOX. And, to answer, he'll have the word after Mr. Pere Aragonès. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.2.0	Yeah. Hello, good morning. Does the Government consider that Catalonia's tax policy helps economic dynamism, the competitiveness of our businesses, and is sensitive to the circumstances of Catalan families today?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.3.0	The vice president has the word as president, Mr Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.4.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr deputate, Catalonia today has a fair, progressive and environmental taxation, in line with the capdavant countries, despite the lack of regulatory capacity at its disposal; a taxation in line with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development of the United Nations and with the girl recommendations for the main international economic organizations, such as the OECD, the International Monetary Fund and the European Union.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.5.0	In answer, has the word Mr. Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.6.0	Counselor, if in any way the main economic institutions agree, you have turned Catalonia into a real fiscal hell. It's one thing to collect taxes and another to act with tax saneness. [[The orator shows a full chamber.]] I show you this graph recently published by the Institute of Economic Studies, which places Catalonia at the forefront of global regulatory fiscal pressure. And this doesn't happen... [[Funnel veils]] – yes, yes; it is a graph of the Institute of Economic Studies –, it does not happen by chance. The minimum sections of the IRPF are the highest in Spain. You especially eat on the most vulnerable incomes. The capital tax remains with the second lowest exempt minimum in Spain and with almost non-existent bonuses. Catalans also pay Spain's highest capital transfer tax. They brutally raised, without any kind of indecentness, the tax on estates and donations in the midst of the pandemic. We are also the autonomous community with more own taxes, fifteen own taxes; five times more than for example Madrid or the Valencian Community. And, to top it off, this year the CO2 emissions tax comes into effect and they're already thinking of putting us in the Eurovignette. And the saddest thing is that this continuous attack on the Catalans' pockets is to pay for the construction of their "republiqueta" and "estructures d'stat" We lead in Catalonia the number of political chiringuitos, 360; it is the autonomous community that has the most. You are the politicians, the rulers who win the most from Spain. And they're still spending tens of millions on indoctrination and feeding their hispanophobia. Mr Aragonès, as long as you keep all that political spending, any tax hike, from the VOX Parliamentary Group we think it is a harassment, abuse and immorality. In short, Mr President, your fiscal hell in the midst of social and economic crisis only sows more unemployment, more misery, poverty, debt, destruction of businesses and decadence. I only ask you, to finish this intervention, to reflect. In economic terms, they are also charging Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.7.0	To answer, the words of the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History are given.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.8.0	Thank you very much, President. In fact, the international organisations that say – and I refer to the latest report of the Organisation for Economic Development Cooperation, the OECD – is that..., you don't say « Catalonia is a fiscal hell; what you say is that the Autonomous Community of Madrid acts as a de facto tax haven. Therefore, when we denounced him here he said everything, but today and this whole body at international level recognizes him. You are taking, I see, some of the tics that some parliamentary groups had in the past legislature, which were – now that you see the summer season and with the re-opening process – talking to us about « syringuitos all the time. When you speak of more than three hundred, I suppose it refers to the public institutions that depend on the Generality, among which there are hospitals, public enterprises of home assistance, of support in the field of cure. If that's what you're talking about, then it's very clear which is the value you make of social policies. In any case, in the fiscal sphere we have taken measures in the later months that I would like to put in value. In the first place – now that the people are making the declaration of income – Catalonia is the territory where a deduction has been made in the autonomous income for which they have more than one payer, so that the people who have less tickets and who have been forced into an ERTO, do not have to pay more for this issue. We're the only ones we've ever done this. Secondly, we have increased the minimum personal and family size from 5.550 to 6.105_euros – now that people are making the statement of income – for all those who have entries equal to or less than 12.450. Certainly, the Government of the State has filed an unconstitutionality appeal with us and the Catalans who benefit from it will not be able to accept it for the time being. We have reduced a portion of the tax benefits that there were to the higher returns, higher assets, of the inheritance tax. However, in order to compensate for the social and economic consequences of the pandemic, we have applied up to twenty-eight measures during this year which have fallen by EUR 237 million to the Generality. So, we're on the side of the people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.9.0	Thank you very much. [[Ask the Government about the management of the lives of high performance]] [[310-00022/13]] He now asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the management of the lives of high-performance. The question is posed by Ms. Marta Madrenas, from the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.10.0	Thank you very much, President. Very good morning to everyone. Counselor Calvet, until four days ago the government of Pedro Sánchez continued to promise that the tolls that had begun to expire and that would keep the free movement indiscriminate. It is very difficult to believe and, surely, it was a rather unwise position that Spain was practically the only country in Europe where the maintenance of highways and high-capacity roads was at the expense of general assumptions. Now we are aware that in the recovery plan developed for the State it has been included, yes, only in a witness way, without developing nor even talking to the actors involved, a possible new management system for high-capacity lives that complete their concession term. We have to imagine that the most important problem for the Sánchez government must be to get Spain, which practically doesn't know what this is about tolls, to arrive without protesting to have to pay a wine to drive through the highways. But, come on, we in Catalonia are already used to these improvisations and incomplete promises. I have to remember – I feel compelled to remember – that we are still waiting for the unfolding of National II for the gironine comarques. There's plenty left to do. And now, a few months after the end of some lives' concession terms, improvise again and try to correct a solution. A solution that, for another band, does not contemplate – and this is very difficult – the loss of entrances from various Catalan municipalities that entered a set of more than 14_million euros in the concept of IBI, and that now see how their assumptions are reduced between 10 and 20_per_cent. The mayors logically demand solutions to avoid subracing in their municipalities, some kind of transitory compensation to be able to progressively cope with this drastic reduction in their entrances. Unlike Spain, a lot of work has been done here. A working group, driven by its department, in which all the groups, all the actors involved, also representation of the State..., were represented, a proposal was made to the State, but we do not have an answer. Can you, counselor, tell us what the capture of your department is about the management of high-capacity lives, and how could it be reduced to the ingenious understatement that some of our country's assemblies would soon live? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.11.0	To answer the word Mr. Damià Calvet, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.12.0	Thank you very much, President. Congresswoman, the truth is that the state announcement has generated a lot of confusion, because it's more like a globe probed with enough improvisation and a lot of inconcrete. The Generalitat continues to bet on the model of vinyeta according to the good practices, the good European practices and that it is already... In fact, it is implanted in various countries. It has been progressively implanting itself in various phases for various types of vehicles, but ultimately implanted. Remember, the concept of the winery is who uses pay and who pollutes pay. And, in fact, we've been talking about this in this room for many years. Each legislature is a working group, which we call the "Work Group of the Peatges", which, with the leadership of the department, therefore generated the necessary consensus at the level of all actors related to the mobility of our country, and therefore also drawing up the arrangements that allow this wine to be applied. Therefore, they can speak of much consent to be able to apply this model of vinyeta to Catalonia. The State has always looked at it from the far. In fact, we got to the last legislature that came to our meetings, but it was a simple attendance. So they didn't get along, they didn't listen to us enough. We would say that there are no ways to value the effort that has been made in Catalonia to look for this model. They were not enough, in short, to give an explicit support to this model of application to all the lives of high performance in Catalonia. They have not, however, actually launched this probe globe, therefore, by European obligation or by some other reason. But in any case, it has to be done. And the first thing we're asking is this, so there's a dialogue with the State so that we can understand very well what this is about, announced by 2024. We continue to think that a winery has to be applied, that this winery has to be final environmental pricing, flat. It's an annual flat rate. And we have all the facts. In fact, I made a appearance to the Committee on Territories and Sustainability, so as to explain our model. A model that involves recap, final environmental pricing of between 800 and 1,000 million euros a year, which will serve to maintain lives, to promote public transport, and, also, in these calculations there was already a compensation to the municipality for the loss of the IBI. Therefore, we have a model closed that what we want is that can be applied in its totality to Catalonia. The government of the state improvises, it goes late and badly, and what we want is to be able to apply a model... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.13.0	Time's up, counselor. [[Asks the Government about support measures for the local world to address the consequences of the pandemic]] [[310-00023/13]] He asked the Government to respond orally in plenary on support measures for the local world to address the consequences of the pandemic. The question is posed by Mrs Anna Erra, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.14.0	Thank you very much, President. Councilwoman Budó, one of the great challenges we have as mayors and mayors is to push our municipalities forward with the best projects, economic and social decisions and initiatives to create opportunities for life and improve the quality of life of our citizens. We, from the vicinity, listen to the needs and the patience and try to be on the side. For all this, Counselor, she wanted to thank from the local world the response of her department during this legislature, since we also found them side by side and very clean. I have already told him in some other intervention in this same hemisphere, but it is worth remembering, that for the local world it was great news to be able to recover the PUOSC, since it has opened the possibility of being able to carry out many actions that, without this program, were impossible. We've been waiting for it for a while and it's been possible. It also means that it is up to us to live one of the toughest times as the country and, obviously, as towns and cities, and that it is the situation that has caused us the pandemic. We are all very aware that the situation has still been and continues to be very complicated. We, as the local government, have been and continue to be at the side of our lives and our lives at such difficult times, but I also want to thank you, counsel, for the coordination and periodic contact between the government and the local world that we have always had and that has been accentuated since the first moment of the pandemic. In the local world, before this pandemic we have made every effort, and we are clear that we must continue to do so, giving response to the needs that we face day by day, and that we must give way to this health crisis. During this stage, we have increased our social policies, generated economic recovery plans and tried to do a whole bunch of actions because our towns and cities are beyond this substratum in the best possible way. That is to say, all the measures we have created for municipalism have been set to deal with this crisis. For all this, she would like to know what follow-up would be like, and how the Government of the Generality will act to help the joints to deal with covid-19, in relation to the needs that this pandemic has created for us in the local world.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.15.0	To answer, you have the word Ms. Meritxell Budó, Presidency Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.16.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... MP Erra, thank you for your words in your intervention, we have explained very well the reality of the assemblies of our country; a reality that you know firsthand, as mayor of the city of Vic, and that we also know very well from the Government of Catalonia. A government that many times has heard me say that it is a government with a municipalist vocation and also with a municipalist view, isn't it? And we know that because we recognize the role of the local world as the administration closest to the citizen. A paper that is cabdal and that still poses more manifest than in a situation of health crisis like we find ourselves, and economic and social, is still more relevant, the paper they make. And it is in this sense that we have worked to strengthen coordination between institutions. This has been our priority. You yourself have referred to this coordination relationship with the local world, which we have intensified even more during this pandemic that we are still patenting today. And this alliance between the local world and the Government of the Generality has given its fruits, I think, this legislature. I think there's been the legislature in which we have recovered that local governments see the Government of the Generality as an ally in politics to improve... [[For technical reasons, some words of the Council's intervention have not been recorded.]] He cut me. Now. Thank you, President. To improve the lives of our citizens and citizens. And it is working pleasurable that we have been able to analyse the different situations at each point in the territory and we have been able to give answers to all those who need it, both from the approaching participation of the local world in programs like Coreco, as well as executing reversal policies – you mention PUOSC – but also from the approaching of providing liquidity to municipal arches. In fact, in these three years of the legislature we have allocated more than 1,100_million euros to local administrations, with programs like PUOSC, the paths plans, the European foundations, natural catastrophes, the Local Cooperation Fund... And, precisely, this 2020 we will equip ourselves with this extraordinary Local Cooperation Fund to deal with the covid-19, we remember it, endowed with 120_million euros, of which 20 are already executed and what will happen is the processing of these remaining 100_million euros, because it was a firm compromise that was acquired by the Government of the Generality of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the evolution of the WhatsApp number of the Mossos d'Esquadra against male violence]] [[310-00024/13]] Now, ask the government to answer the Ple orally about the evolution of the WhatsApp number of the Mossos d'Esquadra against male violence. The question is posed by Ms. Judith Toronjo, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.18.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselors, deputies and deputies. It is an honour to make this first intervention in the Parliament of Catalonia on today's day and to place the emphasis on one of the most important struggles we have as a society: fighting male violence. A rape that we have seen as has taken many forms the past years, from physical rape, from psychological, sexual, economic, digital, among many others. The pandemic and the situation of confinement has made this vulnerability even more difficult for women in a situation of male violence and, obviously, also for their family members, for their dependents, for their children, for what they do to social isolation as for what they do to living with their own aggressors. The threat, therefore, in this period has been increased and so has shown the number of calls to the telephone service, and to which are added the devastating data on younger age fringes. In the face of this situation, since the Interior Council, once again, has worked with the will to approach all of them, to deploy a new contingency plan to ensure the safety of these victims. And he does it with a plan that you plan until twenty measures, as he announced, and that they will be phased out, progressively, applying their own measures. The companies and companies that we find today are well aware that we are fully aware of each time it is easier to communicate through social networks, through nine channels, communication channels, mobile applications, and that is why a new service of WhatsApp has been opened since the last month of April, available on the twenty-four hours of the day, as the action of the Contingency Plan, and with the objective of approaching them and doing so proactively, in a preventive way, to advise and provide information, facilitating direct contact with the police. Therefore, on today's day, counselor, I would like to ask you for this action and, above all, for the gathering that this new service has had in order to be able to fight, among all, this chess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.19.0	To answer the word, Mr. Miquel Sàmper, Interior Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.20.0	Many thanks, president, vice president, councillor, councillors, deputies and deputies. In the first place, welcome, Mrs Toronjo, to arrive in this house to do this job that I am convinced will be extraordinary for our country. As for the answer – I also thank you for asking this question – tell him that in the period from '1 April to 10 May 1,735 messages have been produced, of which 235 have been conversed. There's been more messages than you're talking about, obviously. Of these 235 conversations, there was not a hundred_night that were not detected suspected of risk. In this case, what is done is to address the victim – the alleged victim – to the commissioner referring to the effects of information on care resources and information on any type of self-protection measures. There have been eighty-six suspects of a risk situation, but no confirmation of that risk. This is passed – the conversation – to the VAG, the care groups to the victim of the referral commissioner; they all have them and, as you know, they are commissariats that have highly specialized staff. Fifty-eight cases have passed because the VAGs are paying personal attention to the alleged victim. In a new case, a real risk situation has been detected. They are, therefore, authentic cases of emergence due to imminent risk or because male violence is already being painted. The information is passed to the territorial command room. From the room all the necessary resources are activated – police, health care or the corresponding ones – and, it is to say, in these cases where the trick should be done is already to emerge – which is 112 – to the effects of being able to determine the degree of incidence that this emergence may have. For what it does to the territories, an 80,4_per_cent has been taken from all over the country and only a 19,6_per_cent has been taken from the city of Barcelona. To state that a 13.6_per_cent of users did not make it a subject of male-based violence; therefore, it wanted a 87_per_cent if they were concrete cases of male-based violence. I want to insert this measure – from what you referred to – into a project that went much further, which is that of the creation of a specific commission to eradicate male-based violence, gender-based violence. With these measures and with these new cases already detected, in a_me, of real risk we think it was worth it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.21.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the Decree Law 16/2019, on urgent measures for climate change, and the Law 16/2017, on climate change]] [[310-00018/13]] He asked the Government to respond orally to the Plenum on Decree Law 16/2019, on urgent measures for climate change, and Law 16/2017, on climate change. Asks the question Laia Estrada, for the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.22.0	Thank you, President. Taking into account that Decree 16/2019 goes against the Climate Change Law and takes into account all the protests that have taken place in the territory since the last weeks – especially the last of the week – not only for ecological entities, which have for years left the ground for a new energy policy and for nuclear shutdown, but also that these last protests have also brought together different sectors such as pages, such as cells, as all the people who are negotiating for rural tourism..., taking into account the majority of the population, do they anticipate, the government in operation, to put an end to the processing of our macro-projects once and for all until there is a new government that can do this 2019, that can adopt a new 20-year term of transposition?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.23.0	To answer the word the advisor Damià Calvet, of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.24.0	Thank you, President. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We are in a climate emergency and there are no moratoriums or derogations.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.25.0	To answer the question, you have the word "Mrs. Estrada".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.26.0	If you want to fight the climate emergency, you could first deploy all the climate change law you're about to deploy. First, we are not against renewables, this is stupid and an insult, accusing not only the CUP, but the ecological entities, of being against renewables. What we're talking about is com, and we're talking about doing it without hypocrisy. Now that you have the main hand to deploy renewables are the energy companies – the big energy companies – that are precisely the ones that most contaminate, that they import a rave, the climate emergency. What we are asking for, what the people are asking for, is that we are doing it by bringing these renewable macro-projects closer, in any case, to bringing them closer to the big consumption centres. What we propose is to use the spaces that are already altered, what we propose is to bet for the distributed generation and, more importantly, to do so in a participatory way with local communities. Look, this is not a problem with rural communities, it is a country problem; whether we want to continue to come to the country to the great oligopolises that conform to the apparatus of the Spanish State or whether we want to guarantee a future for our communities. Let's learn – what we have to do is learn – from countries that bring us years of advantage like Germany or Denmark, where 50_percent of renewables are precisely in the hands of the citizenry. We have many examples to imitate and what is going on in the country right now..., if you don't want to listen to us – the CUP or the ecological entities –, listen to your people, who have their own very committed people from the territory; you have mayors, mayors, presidents of very committed regional councils. They repeal the decree and, as a minimum, now the very thing they have to do is to put an end to the processing of our macro-projects. He's the one asking for the country. Listen to a mike and she'll see me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.27.0	To answer, the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.28.0	President... there isn't enough with the rhetorical gathering of renewables to fight the climate change. A recovery decided on concrete renewable projects. And we are precisely going to deal with the decree of renewables, which has moved us – in the right sense and in the right way – after two years of total maturity and to remain at the core of Europe in renewables. A-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a. There is a lack of projects of estalvi, of efficiency; there is a lack of projects of self-consumer; there is a lack of cooperative projects; there is a lack of projects in infrastructures, following linear infrastructures – reels, fierries, reg canals; there is a lack of projects in urbanizable soil, but there is also a lack of parks. We're missing parks, too. We are wind and photovoltaic parks which, precisely, will be used for their correct implementation, taking into account the environmental, landscape, agricultural impact, through the decree and a set of renewable energies in which four departments participate. And the result supports the work of the Ponència d'Energies Renewables, because in what we carry from year of operation of the ponència, we have already seen hundred wind proposals, two-hundred photovoltaic proposals. And a 20_per_cent declared themselves viable, a 35_per_cent conditioned them in size and location, and a 45_per_cent declared them inviable. This means that the work that is done through the decree and the laying is the right work. What can the decree improve? Sure. It can be improved by publishing more criteria, involving more local administrations, but in any case, we are in the right line with the work done by the decree and the petition. Although a few still tell us – and it is legitimate to say – that this is not and here is not. I want us to remain very aware that the sum of 'not so and 'not here brings us back to paralysis. To a bad message; from Catalonia we would be saying that the fight against climate change must be done by others. We are well aware that when there is a demand for derogations and moratoriums, there is no question about what will happen to agriculture or the landscape in the face of global warming. A barrier to renewables for a hypothetical massiveity is to contribute to the devastation – precisely to the devastation – of agriculture, landscape, biodiversity. And stop brandishing that this is all about multinationals. The multinationals are nuclear, and you, with this attempt at renewables, do what they do is play the game for these multinationals. And it's not just my opinion; today, Joan Herrera, who is not suspected of favoring oligopolises, tells us that paralyzing renewable energy projects is from a endorsement of the combined cycles, to a greater contamination, to the blockage of electrification and to the continuity of nuclear power.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.29.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the economic sectors affected by the pandemic]] [[310-00025/13]] He asked the Government to respond orally in the plenary on the economic sectors affected by the pandemic. The question is posed by Ms.Alícia Romero, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.30.0	Good morning, Counselor Tremosa. On April 15, the State handed over to the autonomous communities the right to set aside approved aid amounting to €7,000_million, which must be directed to businesses and self-governments, those most affected by the coven, also extending, thus, the margin of decision of the autonomous communities. Catalonia is close to €993.3 million, the second largest community. And it was the 29th of April when Catalonia signed this agreement. Now only the calls remain to be published so that companies can benefit, as soon as possible, from all these resources. Counselor, in what situation are these summonses?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.31.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Ramon Tremosa, Counsellor of Enterprise and Coneixement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.32.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Romero, we are working to ensure that they reach the affected sectors as soon as possible. And we can also give good practices, because since November we are giving help from the Generality, so as to accelerate and improve this management of these foundations, which the Spanish Government has finally made available to the most affected sectors.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.33.0	To answer the question, has the word the lady Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.34.0	I guess you're gonna agree with me what's urgent, huh? And we have to work as soon as possible. I'm telling you why there are autonomous communities that have had an electoral process with Madrid and have already put these calls for aid on the way. I think that you, therefore, could also be working a little more, because you have not even gathered the employers to start working on these calls, which, I say, give a lot of scope to the autonomous communities to establish the requirements and conditions. And I'm not saying that. Yesterday, Pimec made a statement asking you to speed up, the government, this issue for them so important. So, I have to tell you, counselor, huh? , to speed up the work, to work and to finish these calls as soon as possible. In 2020, the Generalitat received transfers from the State 3.165_millions, for the covid fund. He was able to make a bigger deficit than he did, at the end of the 0.3. Now, this 2021 reopens, the autonomous communities, 13,400_million euros, plus a margin of 1_percent of the deficit target. This will mean for Catalonia about €5,000_million– €5,000_million. And my question is also whether these 993 that are now coming to you from the government of the State will add a few more. Because 5,000 million is a lot. Look, you know that there are a lot of economic sectors: restoration, trade, firaries, the night oci..., also tourism. And, therefore, we need to agile these aids. And in the case of tourism, you can also set up a promotional campaign all over the State to get as many visitors as possible. And a last thing that surprised us. We have some extended assumptions, we know, but we are aware that you have reduced to half the contribution to Reus airport and that the contribution to Girona airport, to Girona airport, is zero_euro. Honestly, they don't get along with the situation that's patenting and that's having tourism. We need a solid government, a strong government that generates trust, and you have already shown that you are not able to offer this country. So don't let it go. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.35.0	To answer, the word "Conseller of Enterprise and Coneixement" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.36.0	Yes; thank you very much, Madam President. Deputy Romero, look, the Department of Enterprise has made payments for thirty days. We have donated payments, we have made support payments to affected sectors: restaurants and bars, about forty_ thousand in Catalonia, and also to shopping centers, shops, closed shopping centers, about seven_ thousand in Catalonia. So, from the ministry... we've offered our know-how, because it's obvious that public administrations aren't thinking... they're not financial entities that make overpayments and periodic payments, we don't have staff or we've been able to hire staff. And since the Department of Enterprise, we've been paying for it for 30 days. And, look, we've made a responsible statement; we've accepted a statement responsible for the businesses affected because it was interesting that the annual payment was fast, right? And we're already doing audits this whole year. And in this sense, therefore, we have designed linear, direct and universal payments. Now, if you look at the bureaucratic teranyina you see from the Ministry of Madrid, first there were CNAEs and then, when they saw that they were leaving affected sectors out, we had to look at this. And then it turns out that we're going to have to send the information... that's to say, the companies will say to us, "I've lost 30_percent of my 2019 bill. We'll send it to Madrid. The Madrid Tax Agency will target company by company, community by community, if effectively it has reduced the billing by 30_per_cent. We'll go back to the autonomous communities, and then there's the topalls of whether the company has more than two hundred workers or if it has more than five hundred_metres_squares...; there's a whole set of topalls that can make a bureaucratic hell for this help. That I do not question the good faith with which the Spanish Government has designed this aid, that up late and under pressure from the European Central Bank in the month of February, the 4th of February, which publishes a communiqué given by the Spanish Government is the only central government that collects all taxes and has not yet given any aid. But we say to him: "This procedure, so that you can arrange the money next week, this year and coming to Madrid and all the tops will behave that we can't be as diligent as we did when it was the Generalita who designed this direct aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the external emergence of the chemical sector in Tarragona]] [[310-00026/13]] He asked the Government to give an oral reply in full on the external emergence of the chemical sector in Tarragona. Asks the question to Ms. Rosa Maria Ibarra, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.38.0	Counselor, the 14th generation of 2020 was the tragic accident to the Iqoxe company that left three people dead. This accident exposed the shortcomings involved in managing from Barcelona a chemical emergence to the Tarragona polygon and the need to recover the Plaseqta. Counselor, do you think that if there was an accident like this today that happened earlier, could you say that we have advanced, that it has advanced and improved in the security of the Tarragona's veins and veins?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.39.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Miquel Sàmper, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.40.0	Thank you very much, President. Congresswoman, things would be better, no doubt, because many things have been done; the Plaseqta's tasks have not been put to rest at the same time and the pandemic. It is true that the calendar was very demanding and could not be completed, in the case of chemical sensor barriers – I said on November 20 – although the first phase of this chemical sensor barrier has already been defined in the southern polygon. The rest of the compromises are out, as foreseen by Plaseqta. As I said, in November 2020, I said in his parliamentary office that there was no presupposition, and now I can tell you that, with Romanesque parties, the first phase has begun, and it will be necessary to provide the rest.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.41.0	To answer the question, has the word Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.42.0	Thank you. Look, counselor, if there was an accident in the chemical industry today, in some of Tarragona's two polygons, the veins and veins would have the same disconcert and the same Anxiety that does say_messions. Because the government, because their department, counselor, hasn't done the job. After that, the new Plaseqta is not working. The veins and veins don't know how to act before an accident. They wouldn't know if they were to be confined or evacuated. They have not been given either training or information, nor have they been simulated. They haven't installed the sensors that are needed, and what you're talking about now, have they? And that they announced in their parliament, after which there was no presupposition. And now he says they're party romans. But, listen to me, counselor. The government collects for the civil protection charge to the chemical industry more than 3,600,000_euros, some money that must be finalists, and that should allow, precisely, to install these sensors without any problem and, moreover, to equip the firefighters of the chemical park with all the necessary equipment. Counselor, does at least three_months that the government does not speak to the sectors directly involved in the development and approval of Plaseqta. In fact, a few weeks ago at the Tarragona Assembly, a monographic ple was made to talk about prevention, safety and the future of the chemical industry. And you know what? The representative of his Government, the delegate of the Government, did not want to attend. I repeat, he didn't want to watch it. Counselor, they have not done the work on such a delicate and important issue. If there is consensus – what is there – about certain aspects to which the Plaseqta refers, such as respect for training and information to the population, why have they not prioritized this issue? And why have they not completed the actions that are needed to give peace and security to the people? You're not what you're supposed to be for, Counselor. And Tarragona we play a lot; we play a lot. Government, if they can, and put the Plaseqta into operation. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.43.0	To answer, the word "Interior Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.44.0	Thank you very much, President. Congresswoman, don't lie; ask her not to lie. And what I would say to you is that the presupposition technique cannot be changed, and if in November I said that there was no presupposition you know perfectly, and your group knows perfectly, that there are no elements from the perspective of the regulation because this could be changed. It's, quite simply, impossible. That said, the 2020 Plaseqta was designed by the Directorate General of Civil Protection with a time, you have to know, remember, despite and thanks to the work of the territorial services that you were criticizing now of the Tarragona of Civil Protection, the enterprises of the area and the local administrations. After approval, two updates were made. The update was March 10th, and four days later we went into the state of alarm. You're supposed to remember that. Despite this, these two updates have been made that what they have done is move forward with respect to the point that you were explaining right now. It is working at the technical level and operating to improve coordination in case of emergence. The technical committee has been created, which is already a reality, where the commands of the emergence services are involved in order to better coordinate and jointly assess the effects of possible accidents. This was a coordination technique that was not and is now, and that improves the protection of the population in case of chemical emergence in Tarragona. In the middle of the pandemic, as I said, the risk analysis documents have also been managed, created, set out, the municipalities have been consulted, the risk analysis documents have been updated, the reduction tasks of the group action plans have begun, the alarm network has been expanded with two new sirens in Salou and a relocation of another in Salou, and, in the process, and you said that no prevention has been made, the digital awareness tool escapes room for young people... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.45.0	I'm sorry, Counselor; time is running out. [[Ask the Government about the planning of health equipment]] [[310-00027/13]] He asked the Government to respond orally in plenary on the planning of health equipment. The question is posed by Ms. Sílvia Paneque, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.46.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. We certainly agree and share the most serious consequences that a government has for the city of Catalonia in functions after so many months and months. But in the realm of the health region in Girona rains on mules. We carry a long decade of promises, star discussions and very painful setbacks about the future of the new Josep Trueta Hospital. The question is: what tangible actions and decisions have been brought to an end since the location of Josep Trueta Hospital was announced almost a year ago?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.47.0	To answer, has the word "Mrs. Alba Vergés", greeting counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.48.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP, precisely – precisely – this government has focused on planning the equipment needed by the future health system. And you know that it came to a historic agreement, that made many years that it was stuck, precisely, for this location of the Josep Trueta Hospital of Girona, that creates a sanitary park that incorporates the assistance, obviously, but also teaching and searching in the same space, and also incorporates the possibility that the universities can add to this great project of a health region that reaches more than 800,000 people as reference, the Josep Trueta of Girona. And that, therefore, in the follow-up committee, therefore, which has been established, we are advancing in this project, as it does, as it should be, but that the first era was to dissociate, the first was this historic agreement that we precisely achieved, this Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.49.0	Thank you. To answer the question, you have the stop Ms. Silvia Paneque.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.50.0	Thank you. Counselor, the new Trueta, for this, has been announced many times, especially in electoral periods. It gives years of announcements without palpable, no action or decision. First the government in semi-functions of President Torna, in August 2020, and the government in function of Pere Aragonès, the February of 2021, will visit the lands of the new Trueta. On two visits it was said the same, what you say today: the will to build it. But, tanmateix, there is no point – action or decision – that I approve. They will effectively constitute the follow-up commission one_me before the elections. But here there are two problems: the first, about what to do next, and the second, unfortunately it has not come back together again. Why? Socialists, as you know, were going to be and are today in the consensus solution that you have proposed. But that doesn't stop asking for real decisions and actions. The functional plan is also essential. What's the status of that, Counselor? Have you started conversations with the university, with the chamber of commerce, about the hub salut that opts for the Next Generation fund? Girona, moreover, also deserves a constantly updated update of the primary: the expansion of CAP Montilivi, the expansion of CAPs Doctor Vilaplana, of Can Gibert, of Santa Clara, or the construction of a new CAP also in the Eixample. The gironi don't give a rat's ass, nor do they serve as any more announcements about the Trueta at the press. Girona deserves a new Trueta, a first-level hospital park in northern Catalonia and a primary school with sufficient resources and quality, and that has begun to work already, from this very day on, after more than two years of round and very severe paralysis. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.51.0	To answer the word has the greeting counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.52.0	Miri, Congresswoman, so we're happy to agree. And here's Girona's mayor. Read 'the agreement we came to, historic agreement, I repeat, signed between the Department of Health, Català de Salut, Mayor of Girona, Mayor of Salt, precisely to unravel the location and to start all this project. Read it's okay. It's not a will, it's a need for Girona's health care region, but it's stuck, unsettled by this government, and it's obviously starting to work for this future project. Because that's what we did to Girona, and that's what we're doing out of the country: planning equipment. We started before the pandemic with the Pla de maggiore d'équipements et résolution de la primaria; 30_million euros also available for three years, where we were able to get equipment so needed, that it was seen after the pandemic, as ultrasounds in our CAPs. We are also doing this with the specific program of support for technological renewal: 300_million euros until 2015 between Servivei Català de Salut, the same entities, that have to recover this investment capacity. So let's just say that I hope we can congratulate each other because this historic agreement came forward, we get to work..., we got to work, we don't get to work, we get to work, we get to work for Girona, but we also get to work for all the other health regions: with Joan XXIII in Tarragona, with the Virgin of the Belt in Tortosa, with a new five-year hospital at Arnau Vilanova in Lleida, plus Vall d'Hebron, plus Can Ruti, plus... [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.53.0	Time's up, Counselor. [[Some applause.]] [[Ask the Government about the policies of the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge before the industrial crisis]] [[310-00016/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the policies of the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge before the industrial crisis. The question is posed by Mr Lucas Ferro, of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.54.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counselor, Catalonia is experiencing the worst industrial crisis in its history, and the worst is the response of its political formation in and out of government. For a band, those who have responsibilities from the government are missing. Where are you, Counselor? Yesterday, the Secretary General of the Workers' Commissions said that he had not spoken to the government before Nissan's closure and reindustrialisation projects. Where are you, Counselor? Because that same tells us a lot of business committees that are struggling today to keep their jobs and production in Catalonia. And, on the other hand, we watch the ideological gangs of those who aspire to succeed him at the head of the Department of Enterprise, such as the ex-president of the chamber, Mr. Canadell, who one day says that Andorra is the best model for the Catalan Republic and the other that the new government has to do is to import the model of Help. What a most desolating panorama, Mr. Counselor. What do you think is more distasteful of Catalonia's future product? To continue with a government that has disappeared as a result of the major industrial crisis of this history or to take over the replenishment of those who want to import the model of Help to Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.55.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Ramon Tremosa, Counsellor of Enterprise and Coneixement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.56.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. The councillors' agenda is public, and you can also monitor all my business visits and meetings I have with business committees. Yesterday afternoon, therefore, with Bosch's business committee in Lliçà d'Amunt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.57.0	To answer the question, Mr. Lucas Ferro has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.58.0	Comment on the 'hial secretary general of commissions, who sees he hasn't found him and doesn't know what day they went to Nissan. Today it's time to take stock of his government action. For one band, you're missing from the industrial crisis we're experiencing, and for another band, we're balancing the fractures in your management. The national pact for industry, the major tool we had to re-industrialize this country, has ended up in failure, in failure to complete the 4.0 industrialization, in energy transition. They don't even get the 50 percent compliment. The main policy levers for the reindustrialisation of this country remain untapped. I ask you a very simple question. Do you believe, with these data and his disappearance as a counselor, that a positive balance can be made from his management to the Head of the Company? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.59.0	To answer the word the Business and Coneixement Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.60.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Benvolgut deputy, look, the last dime we were able to announce a good news, and it is that the plant Falset Stop, therefore, announced, the property, that it is rebuilt, that it will be reconstructed, that you know that it was sour after the snow of the month of generation. I made a stack, which I enjoyed from Madrid, from the ministries, thanked all the administrations for working with the workers, the mayors..., because we were able to finally get the property to have decided not to go to Poland, as it is unfortunately happening with so many other companies. And that goes all over southern Europe. And this is a situation, isn't it? Therefore, we work and do it discreetly. One of the nicest parts of this job, and also the most frustrating part, is not being able to communicate the meetings we have with big global companies that are about to announce investments in Catalonia. And that, sadly, so, that's it. That is to say, we have investments on the table very powerful that go in the line of rebuilding the ancient industrial area of Nissan, that they want to take advantage of Next Generation funds, but that, unfortunately, by confidentiality criteria, on condition of confidentiality, we cannot announce, but this is on the way. In any case, you participate in a government in Madrid that has excluded autonomous communities. We have always wanted to be proactive, we have wanted to co-manage European foundations. Republican left until he tied up... [[For technical reasons, some words of the advisor's intervention have not been recorded.]] ...to this effect, but unfortunately it didn't go like this, did it? Now, we've done our job. We have tried to motivate, raise, encourage companies, channel these companies that are present in Madrid on these foundations and have done so from Action, with criteria to advise these projects, to group them between companies, to associate them with research centres and universities. And in this sense, therefore, we have tried to do what we have well known, because we have only had a meeting with the European Commission and very little with the ministry. And the Minister of Industry has been very busy with the election campaign in Madrid, and she doesn't respond to our emails, and it's not that the result is so brilliant, is it? So, let's wait, if we continue with the government, so let's wait to work and culminate many of these investments that need to re-industrialize Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.61.0	Ask the government... [[Ask the Government about the policy of tolls]] [[310-00015/13]] ... to respond orally in full on the policy of tolls. The question is posed by Mrs Eva Parera of the Group of the Mixed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.62.0	Good morning, everybody. Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. A while ago we heard his party companion asking him about the state's management autovies, but we didn't talk about the generality's management autovies. I've heard you say what you want, but not what you're going to do. And, therefore, we are asking you what you will do from the beginning of the week when the concessions will end on these highways, especially those owned by the Generality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.63.0	To answer, has the word Mr.Damià Calvet, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.64.0	Thank you, President. Member of Parliament, the 31st August of this year is the end of the concessions of C-32 and C-33 and, therefore, there is no more recourse; they are the end, the barriers are raised. What the Government of the Generality has done – and it has done so with a very recent government – is, precisely, to contract, for a value of about 30_million euros, the ordinary maintenance of these lives. We'd be glad we didn't get here. We would have liked to have anticipated this finalization of the concessions; we warned, we continue to warn that the maintenance of the lives of high performance by presupposition is very unsustainable and, therefore, we would have liked to have applied the winery already, which is to be applied throughout the network of carts of Catalonia, but it would have caused many inefficiencies in mobility. We're not here because the government of the state has looked all the way, the governments of the PP and also the current government of the PSOE that, now or now many days ago, has launched a probe globe. After saying that there would be tolls by 2024, it seems that the minister said that "well, it was an idea and that we would already see. Look, if you don't understand, at least we ask that we can apply Catalonia, to the whole network of reelers, the one of the State and the one of the Generality, the wine house as we conceived it, in fact, in its parliament, because the model that we have in Catalonia I introduced to the Commission and had been, to the Commission of Territories, and had been debated and agreed for the majority of actors of mobility in our country: businesses, unions, employers and, obviously, administrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.65.0	To answer the question, you have the word "Madam Parera".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.66.0	Thank you, Mr. Calvet. The truth is, you didn't know that yesterday, what would happen. And to you we heard it a few days ago say – and I quote literally – "I guarantee you, 31 August the pages are finished. So, I know it's hard to get him back to reality, but a vinyette is a toll. Excuse me, who pays is a toll, there's no barrier, but it's a toll. And what is most worrying is that you explain to her, before the question her partner, that what is obtained for this Eurovignette is intended not only for the maintenance of these highways, but also for other things: to compensate IBIs, to promote public transport, issues, etc. What you are saying to the Catalans is that they will be charged an extra cost for the use of these highways: "We do not want to pay; you are the ones: "We do not want to pay. What's going on? We just don't want to pay when they're from the state, but not the generality? You can't populate with this. That's not populism, that's management, Mr. Calvet, and you're not managing. They are not prepared for what will pass August 31st; they have not been, they have not worked, they are more concerned about other things than for the maintenance of the highways or for the day-to-day management of what touches them like the government. It's a reality and don't fool people. They can't tell people: "Autovies will be free. It's not free, it's not free. A winery is a toll that you have made to implant it. They have not moved a saying, they have done nothing, they have limited that the problem will arrive, it will arrive August 31st and there will be no solution here. Yes, the solution, more taxes; more taxes, don't say toll, say taxes; more taxes because they only know how to finance themselves through it. More tax burden on the city. Therefore, I ask you to have a few criteria, have a little seny, do not populate with the management, please, and give valid arguments and do manage a question that is yours and do not divert the... (The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.67.0	To answer, the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.68.0	Thank you very much, President. The truth is that his intervention was a compendium of commonplaces and misinformation: don't make a fuss. In Catalonia, on August 31st of this 2021 the barriers will be lifted and, therefore, the tolls of C-32 and C-33 will be completed and what we claim is not an invention of the advisor of the Department of Territories or the Government of the Generality, is to apply a European directive, which is said of the Eurovinyeta and which implies that effectively who uses and who pollutes, pays. It's a final environmental tariff. And say exactly what the money is to be spent on: to maintain the network, to promote sustainable mobility, which means public transport, and which means fleet environmentalization. And we also calculated with our model the compensation of IBIs. It's a model that... of what we have endowed with as the country, before a state, governments of the PP and government of the PSOE, that still has no model, that launched globes probe. So, before the improvisation of the Government of the State, we want to apply this model to Catalonia. Like from the start, we can't apply it because we have half of the network, holding it by presupposition. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.69.0	Ask the government... [[Ask the Government about the 2020-2021 school year]] [[310-00019/13]] ... to respond orally full on the 2020-2021 school year. The question is posed by Mònica Palacín, of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.70.0	Thank you, President. We're almost five weeks away from finishing this course and from here, from the hemicicle, I think he's looking a little closer to thanking the educational community for the effort they've made to keep the schools open, the classrooms open and secure for all of our children and young people in the country. In this complicated course, a year of pandemic, a year in which it has been essential to put public resources at the service of the citizenry and equity, in this case, educational. It has been very important to have open schools, secure schools, despite remembering the – some – few reluctant to open these schools in September and to restart educational activity past the Nadal holidays. Fortunately, with the country, with society, we have to feel very proud and proud of not having done so. The effort of the department to increase the number of professionals to respond to the needs of the pandemic measures, also for the emotional needs of the children and young people of the country; as this department has advanced the digital platform, as has arrived the computers to the students from the ESO, from the third of ESO; as well as many centers have been updated to also have the updated digital guarantees. A responsibility of a department, not a ministry of the Spanish government, because we are still waiting for the computers they promised us. I can also remember, even though I was far away, in the confinement, the activation of the eating stalls to guarantee the apts to students with eating bags and also the digital supports that were given to the most vulnerable families. Academic year, academic course does not understand government in function, does not understand a government in function. The course passes, the courses begin and we are seeing it with the new pre-registration in a telematic way, which is working very well. We ask him, counselor, as he said, almost five weeks before finishing the course, which balances, therefore, makes this course that will be finished soon and how much he appreciates what the next course will have to be in this still-pandemic scene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.71.0	To answer the word, Mr. Josep Bargalló, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.72.0	Thank you, President. Member, we have kept open classrooms, open schools throughout the course to guarantee not only the right to education but also to ensure the emotional follow-up of our students and equity. And that was a country success. We are one month away from finishing the course and having kept the schools open, and having kept the full and absolute presence in compulsory education, even at the highest moments of the pandemic, where we have never overcome the barrier of 5 per cent of the confined groups. And this has not been so in most of the territories of the State, where they have not been able to guarantee the full visibility of the compulsory teaching, and it has not been so in Europe, that they have had to lock in France, Italy, the United Kingdom and Portugal, and it has not been so in the United States of America, where they have not opened for a year. And this success of the country has been possible thanks to the efforts of all professionals in the educational community and thanks to the follow-up of health professionals. We have worked folds: Department of Education, Department of Health, Professionals, Families and Encounters to make it possible. It's a country success. Just like it's been thrown in front of the digital plate. More than 222,000 portatiles for alumni, more than 72,000 portatiles for teachers, 45,000 connectivities. And when the forty-thousand computers promised for the ministry arrive, which have not yet been tendered – that, if all goes well, it will be for the coming course– we will do a second phase that will include primary students. But the success of the country is a success of all, and we don't have to be very proud, because it has placed the public education service as an essential and foundational service of our community. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.73.0	Ask the Government to reply orally in full... [[Ask the Government about actions to strengthen the role of the nurse profession]] [[310-00020/13]] ...about actions to strengthen the role of the nurse profession. The question is posed by Ms. Najat Driuech of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.74.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. He will allow me before you ask him the question to take advantage of to congratulate all our ways and veins that today celebrate the final day of Ramada. All of them: Eid Mubarak Said. Well, counselor, it's imperative to give thanks and honor all the nurses and nurses who work to improve, day after day, the health and well-being of people. We've all seen how in this past year the infirmary collection has had a bigger role than ever before. He has had to lead from the first line of the pandemic all the cures, some cures that have involved a huge over-effort, but that have put even more of their importance back together. They did it with an integral view and ensuring a quality response. Right now, the nurse's job has still become more visible with the rapid and massive deployment of the vaccination campaign against covid-19. Yesterday, 12 May, was the International Day of Nursing. Taking advantage of this day, the Catalan Institute of Health launched a campaign called "Leadership inferring in the networks, a campaign that seeks to make visible the leadership of this collection through professional and reference projects. It is fitting that the view of the infirmary world is heard; it is necessary to spread the import of the profession and it is also important to put into value how this profession contributes to the salvation and well-being of all people. And it is that all the campaign is little to recognize the task of a profession that takes care of all people, families and the community in all its spheres of life. Also, from the perspective of genera, counselor, the infirmary is a hyperfeminized profession and that for far too long has been neglected unjustly. And we know that you, counsel, and your counsel are working to put it in value, as you have explained to us in this chamber repeatedly or to the committee. For all this, counsel, what other actions are due in time to strengthen the role of nursing professionals?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.75.0	To answer, has the word "Mrs. Alba Vergés", greeting counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.76.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, I thank you very much for the question. These 47,000 infirmaries we have in our country deserve this recognition, but above all we work for what they deserve even more, that we can empower their role in the health system, the value they already have for the system, but the value they have for a society that wants to take care of people, that wants to be fair and that obviously in this, therefore, the infirmaries have a lot to say. May 12 is International Nurse's Day. Celebrate, huh? , or we are commemorating this birth of Florence Nightingale, which must be demonstrated – demonstrate – the value of cures for a society. Another time it had to be demonstrated, it had to be fought and to us, what it is close to us to do, for this social reformer who was also revolutionary to fill this profession as the profession, therefore, work tirelessly. But it's more like the year of the infirmary. The year of the infirmary, this 2020, coincided with the covid and coincided precisely with an impact of a global pandemic that has filled in the infirmaries of our country and the world's arrest. We also joined the Government of the Generality in the campaign "Nursing Now from the Iniciator – from the Iniciator – and we have already implemented some of the things that this global campaign marked for us, which is, for example, putting them in decision-making places in two general directions of a department that does not have many general directions, so much value. Two Directorates General led by nurses, one of them the Directorate General of Health Professionals. And also two territorial managements led by nurses. Take part in health education, cures, research, teaching and management. We have, therefore, placed these infirmaries in the dam of decisions. We have withdrawn the decree of nursing prescription, where more than 25,000 nurses in our country are accredited and have been able to prescribe 2.5 million sanitary products or medicines that form part of their own pocket – their own pocket – and that, inexplicably, until now they would require authorization from metge or metgessa. We have increased the offer of specialized training places by 47,7_per_cent; 294 specialists will begin their residency this year, an increase of almost 50_per_cent. We need a government with full functions for the recognition of specializations and for nursing training in public universities. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.77.0	He asked the Government, to answer orally in the plenary, about political persecution of the international action of the Generality. [[Ask the Government about the political persecution of the international action of the Generalitat]] [[310-00021/13]] The question is posed by Ms Marta Vilalta, of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.78.0	Thank you very much. Bon dia deputats, deputades, conseller. On the 29th of June, we are quoted to declare a forty-year high of the previous governments of the Generalitat for foreign policy expenditure and the Diplomacy between the year 2011 and the year 2017. The Spanish State, now through the Court of Auditors, has built a misrepresentation case, which was further supported during the application of 155, with the aim of considering it illegal – illegal – which is the normal activity of external action and more with the intention of punishing any suspected collaboration with the independence process. Judgement number 13, the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, the Supreme Court and now the Court of Auditors thus, in a concerted manner, arbitrarily and abusively generate a double penalty for the same concepts and attack the basic rights of retaliated persons. We have seen political repression, judicial repression, police repression and now economic repression. That's why we want to show all our support and strength to all the people involved in this new example of a general cause against independence. To all people, and also to all their families, who suffer so much or so much as none of this unjust persecution that generates personal anguish, creates a familiar economic need for embargoes before million-dollar bonds, and mortgages the lives of children. Let us make it clear that the Court of Auditors is a clear example of nepotism. Yes, of nepotism. It is integrated for a hundred parents of high offices and ministers of the PSOE and the PP, with an inclusive Francoist heritage, and which illustrates the decadence of the 78's rule. Let's remember when he revoked his sentence to Ana Botella to sell back-to-back protection floors or when he left immunity and without investigating the irregular use of the state's reserved grounds by the so-called patriotic police. This Parliament, Councillor, and also the reports of the Union of Auditors have certified the legality of the expenditure in the foreign policy of the Generalitat, which we are more than ever told to defend this external action which has been done and which must continue to be done. The abuse is so difficult and so flagrant, that even one of the councillors of the same court gave a private vote to ensure that the Generality was not out of line and acknowledged that the court incompletes its principles of impartiality and makes value judgments without responsibilities. Counselor, we want to ask you... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.79.0	To answer the words of the Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Bernat Solé.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.80.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies, agraexo, deputy Vilalta, who ask me this question because, first of all, I want to take advantage of it to transmit, on behalf of the Government of the Generality, all the support to the people involved in this new cause and not only to those people who suffer it to their own skin, but to all the families who will be harmed. [[Greetings.]] And not only did they move the support, but they moved the full confidence that they exercised their functions as public servants and, therefore, all the support, but also all the recognition. Specifically, also, the recognition of the Councillor Romeva and the entire team of senior officials and external delegates who during the years of their political responsibilities have positioned Catalonia to the international public opinion. And that, exactly, is what he wants to punish. It is intended to punish dissent, it is intended to punish that Europe has an opinion formed of the situation that is living Catalonia. It is clear that the Spanish State has this judicialization of a process, of a conflict that should never be resolved in the courts, that should always be resolved by political means. Independence is a fully legitimate cause, it is recognized even to the same Constitution. Therefore, to say and explain that a person feels independent should never be judged. Today's independence, in this very Parliament, has the majority support in the ballot box and today more than we can ever upset this majority we have. So, when the state can't win in the polls, it wants to win in the courts. Precisely you refer to the particular vote of this Councillor of the Court of Auditors, a particular vote which in question the case in all its essence, which ensures at all times that the Generality is not extra-limited in its functions and that, in any case, the position of the Court of Auditors guarantees the impartiality, clarity, conciseness, balance and weighting that would have been required of any public institution. Catalonia, deputies and deputies, will continue to be projected internationally, because we have a democratic mandate, but it is that, moreover, we have the competences recognized for the Statute of Catalonia and for the same Constitution. Only one end: this solution does not pass through the jutjats or togas; the solution to the conflict passes through the dialog, passes through the negotiation, and passes through the amnesty of the... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]] [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.81.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about external action]] [[310-00017/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on external action. Asks the question to Mr Matías Alonso of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.82.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, what action will the Court of Auditors take to obtain the restitution of the assets held by former senior officials of the Generalitat in connection with the external action?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.83.0	To answer the words of Mr. Bernat Soler, External Action Advisor, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.84.0	Miri, Deputy Alonso, I refer to the answer I gave to Deputy Vilalta. This case before the Court of Auditors is one more case, one more fight against this general case against independence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.85.0	To answer the question, Mr. Matías Alonso has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.86.0	Yeah, I still touch a few on the ground. Between 2011 and 2017, the governments of the Generalitat have « polished more than 416_million_of_euro in foreign action policies, many of them without constitutional or statutory attachment; much more than they invest in schools throughout a legislature. It's no wonder we're following our heads in barracks. Many millions of euros have been wasted and embezzled. I remember Raül Romeva's prepotent rictus on May 4, 2017, in the Foreign Action Committee, when my partner Susana Beltrán warned him that: "Someone will have to answer for the money wasted by Diplomat. Today Romeva is condemned for this embezzlement of money from the pockets of all Catalans. Ciutadans we have continuously denounced this expoliation and the misappropriation of public funds for purposes contrary to legality. Your department has systematically denied us the information we have requested. Absolute opacity in the department that is said to be of transparency. We obtained the information by consulting the records of the United States Department of Justice. We brought to the attention of the prosecutor's office the information collected in the face of criminal charges. Counselor, in the end everything is known, and opacity does not exonerate guilt. The report you and Mr Albert Royo bitterly complain about, for example, stems from citizens' commitment to uncover this continuing misappropriation, bringing this issue to the Joint Congress-Senary Commission for relations with the Court of Auditors. Diplocat is a public-private consortium in which his Government manages the entire cotharro through budget. His Government was responsible for public funds and the legality of their actions. The 155 glue implanted by the PP government left in the hands of Aleix Villatoro the dissolution of the Diplomat, which you could then easily replicate. Rajoy put the fox to keep from the chickens, what could go wrong? Counselor, do you not intend to take charge of the legal defence of the expolitors to whom the Court of Auditors claims the restitution of the embezzled? Counselor, when are they going to close Diplomat and regain decency and transparency? At least Artur Mas, since his golden retreat, will not be able to declare... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.87.0	To answer the words of the External Action Advisor, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.88.0	Miri, Mr. Alonso, do you know what's going on? , that I could get into this debate that you're interested in because of lack of political relationship, but I won't. Simply tell him that, as I said before, external action, and, concretely, the Diplomacy, are recognized in the same Constitution, in the same Statute, and even in the same judgment of the Constitutional Court, which recognizes all the competences that the Government of the Generality has to do external action. And I will not give it because, in fact, doing external action is the obligation of all responsible governments. You, that if I don't remember badly, therefore, you are in the Government in Andalusia, so you have a network of delegations that are almost much wider than that of Catalonia, and here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, you question the external action of the Government of the Generality. So what you're asking for is a little coherence. And as I won't get into the debate any more times – I've done it many times, but I'll be back today – I'll explain the function of outside action, concretely in this year of pandemic. Miri, during this year..., this past year of pandemic, the delegations of the Generality have attended 2,700 cases of emergency, which involves 4,500 people. We have done thousands of consultations on mobility, we have organized seven informative sessions, with more than 800 people who have attended it, to know the details of mobility at international level. Thanks to the work of the delegations – from these delegations that you want to close – we have managed to weave a platform of thirty European territories, among which there is Bavaria and Occitania, but there are also Balears, the Valencia Country, or the Basque Country. A platform that demands more capacity to manage the Next Generation You foundations, more protagonistism to the conference of Europe, and that takes more account of the territories, and that approaches European policies to the citizen. During this year of pandemic we have prepared 1,800 weekly reports, with cooperative measures due to end-to-end at the international level, more than 120 specific reports that have been placed on the government table every week, and we have exported good practices, such as the opening of schools or the organization of elections in the middle of the pandemic. If after all that I have explained to you, you consider that external action is not necessary for Catalonia, it is that you have not understood what it is to serve citizens from a public service. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.89.0	Ask the Vice President of the Government in place of the President of the Generality. Ask the vice president..., [[Ask the Vice President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the demonstration convened before his ERC in relation to negotiations to form government and how these facts affect coexistence]] [[317-00009/13]] to answer orally in plenary on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Alejandro Fernández, of the Grup Mixt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.90.0	Yes, thank you, President. A few days ago he called a separatist demonstration in front of his Republican Left to the cry of: "Treacherous Junqueras, rot in prison. How does it value, in terms of coexistence, this fact?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.91.0	To answer the word, Mr. Pere Aragonès, Vice President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.92.0	I have always defended the freedom of political prisoners, the free return of exiles, the right to self-determination, the amnesty and independence of this country, and I will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.93.0	To answer the question, Mr. Alejandro Fernàndez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.94.0	Thank you, President. He pointed out that a few days ago a separatist demonstration was called in Esquerra headquarters to the cry of « Traitor Junqueras, rot you in prison. I could rejoice watching you try your own medicine, now that it seems that the traitors and botiflers are you, you know how we have felt millions of Catalans that we are not independenceists. What's not nice about it? I could rejoice, he said, but I won't because it's all very sad. You have created a monster that threatens to devour yourselves. "This is democracy," they said. It's never been like that. It was always a project of his mission and imposition. "The revolution of the shadows," they said. Well, less bad, if those are the smiles, what the rascals will look like. Is it really worthwhile for them to insist on a process that only leads to insult, division, and the incarnated struggle of the armchair? Mr. Aragonès, I'm no longer going to ask you to get off the boat, to put an end to that monster of hatred that you have created yourself. It's no use, for one ear it comes in and for the other it comes out. I will simply remind you that we are going to continue to fight him, with three Members or with whom they are. Ending that monster of hatred has become a genuine moral imperative that is above political strategy or electoral tactics. To end that monster of hatred is worth it, precisely, because principles only acquire their true value when they are uncomfortable to defend, when they carry the risk of exclusion: these are the battles that give meaning to our true political vocation. That is why we are not giving up, neither with three Members nor with whom they are, because we are going to defeat that monster of hatred that calls ‘treacherous' and ‘botifler to the disagreer. And when we achieve it, seen as seen, even you, seen as seen these last few days, will end up thanking us. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.95.0	To answer, the deputy president of the government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.96.0	Thank you very much, President. Member of Parliament, a state for Catalonia is the best way we can have to ensure a future of prosperity and prosperity for the citizens of this country. In order to be able to complete an economic and social transformation program that places Catalonia with all the potential that all the actions have. Maybe, they can be one of the most advanced countries in Europe. And, obviously, you take advantage of a minority mobilization, which gave you the perfect excuse to try, on your part, to embroider a report in which you are presented as a victim, but who is in prison are political prisoners. In that you present yourself as the victim, but who must go to exile are also political and social leaders of our country and good part of the ancient Government of the Government of Catalonia. In that you are presenting yourself as a victim, but a Court of Auditors, controlled by your party, brings to an end a contribution to the general case against independence in which they try, from the civil death, from the economic ruin of the families, that we take a step back. And we will not stand back because this country is not prepared to stand back in defense of its freedom, in defense of the right to self-determination, in defense of being able to decide from Catalonia, democratically, civically, peacefully, and that is why we are putting it through a negotiation. That's why we always set it up with the extended hand of the dialect, but without ever giving up the right that the citizens of this country must have to decide freely their future. Because we believe – and this is our proposal – that the independence of Catalonia is the best thing we can hold on to so that we can have all the necessary resources, all the legislative capacity, all the tools of decision because the citizenship of our country takes a step forward in its collectivity and future project. You legitimately defend another project. No problem. Let's discuss it at the polls, in a self-determination referendum, in which you can defend the no, I can defend the yes and the police what you do is protect the ballots and not bite the ones we defend them. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.97.0	Question... [[He asked the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generalitat, about the image that Catalonia projected in Spain and Europe that an anti-system party was a determining factor for the formation of the new government.]] [[317-00011/13]] ...to the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, to answer orally in full on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.98.0	Mr Aragonès, what image do you think Catalonia projects to the rest of Spain and Europe, to entrepreneurs, to investors when an anti-system party like the CUP seems to be the determining factor for a new government?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.99.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Pere Aragonès, Vice President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.100.0	So the image he projects is that the Catalan society has given more deputies to this group than to you, and that, therefore, if respect and support are to be measured in some way in a democracy, it is by means of votes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.101.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.102.0	Everything perfect if the CUP was not a party, precisely, anti-system and revolutionary. Look, Mr Aragonès, it's been three months since the Catalans went to the polls, and all this time it seems like you've taken citizenship for fools and starred in a barrage of negotiations. You've been fighting for three months to see who's leading the process and what role that Ghost Republic Consell has that you've formed. But of the five hundred thousand Catalan unemployed, of how to get our educational system to have excellence, of how to rescue the sectors most affected by the crisis, of that absolutely nothing transcends. It is shameful to see how you fight for the armchairs, for power, for the space of independence, and also threaten us with a second election with which it is falling. We have seen how you now referred to Junts per Catalunya militants shouting at the Republican Left headquarters. Screams of « war, war, war and directed by Mr Bentanachs, ex-founder of Terra Lliure, and right at the gates of his headquarters. We do not want anything that the most radical of Catalonia is conditioning the future government of Catalonia. You know that there is a huge frustration on the foundations of independence, a frustration that you have provoked, and you will not be able to conceal what because in a new election participation is going to be fired, and instead of Catalonia that does not move by aggression, frustration and division, but by the desire to move forward, this time they are going to mobilize, you are the real barrier to our prosperity. Ciutadans was born in front of the radical drift of his tripartite Republican Left with the Socialist Party, and from these dusts come these muds. If the PSC has the temptation to agree a tripartite agreement with you, before or after a second election, I say to you: we, as constitutionalists... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.103.0	To answer, the deputy president of the government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.104.0	We need to put as soon as possible a new government that can, with renewed energies, with much more strength still, face the challenges that this country has, the challenge of economic and social reconstruction after a pandemic that still suffers, despite the fact that we are much better off in the past weeks..., but this economic and social reconstruction and also an emotional reconstruction of so many life projects that have been erased, especially in sectors, for example, young people in our society. Therefore, we need a government that is set in motion for this. We need a government, too, that can deal with all the functions that must be the management of the Next Generation funds and, therefore, that can take advantage of this opportunity to place Catalonia in a product model, a much more resilient economic model, that generates welfare, that generates shared prosperity. And in this sense, we've done a good part of the job, but it takes a government with all the functions to be able to complete this task. And there is also a need for a government in functions, precisely..., or in full functions to deal with what must be a new stage in which the vast majority that exist in favour of the right to decide, from the right to self-determination, in favour of the freedom of prisoners, of the return of exiles and in favour of the citizenry of Catalonia, in short, which decides the future of this country..., can stand in the way of better. And, therefore, these are the reptiles that I have planted in this chamber. I think we have a few days ahead, so that we can shape this result that they gave the ballot boxes on the 14th of February, and my compromise is to work through to the end because this result is not bad and that, therefore, it is possible to set aside, as I have been claiming so many times, a new government with the greatest immediate possible power. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.105.0	Question... [[Ask the Vice President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generalitat, about his real willingness to be President of the Generalitat before the difficulty to form government and speculations about a new electoral cycle]] [[317-00010/13]] to the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, to answer orally in the Plenary on the political situation. The question is posed by Ms.Jessica Albiach of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.106.0	Thank you, President, and very good morning to all of you. Mr Aragonès, we are seeing a manifest difficulty in being able to form the new government that Catalonia needs and, moreover, we are listening to some speculating about a possible electoral repetition. And I want to ask you a very direct question that I expect you to answer me with all sincerity, and this question is whether you want to be President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.107.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Pere Aragonès, Vice President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.108.0	To be at the service of Catalonian citizenship; yes, of course, obviously. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.109.0	To answer the question, the word "Jessica Albiach" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.110.0	Thank you, Mr. Aragones. We didn't expect less, I'll try to be very clear, I always try, but I think it's especially necessary today, because I have the feeling that outside these four parts of Parliament no one understands more than what's going on. Right now we have three scenes. One is the possible electoral repetition, which is an insult to the citizenry, a city that is exhausted, that is tired, that has made many sacrifices, that continues to make them and that deserves respect, and that institutions work for them and stop watching. A second option, which is a newly failed legislature with a government of Esquerra and Junts for Catalonia that already know how it will end: brawls, and more with you trying to be president and others trying not to be president. And we also have a third option, which is a progressive government, which is a government of change, a government that actually works and that answers the concerns of the citizenry. Look, I have to admit that you dissabte died... you dissabte took a step. You've been moving... and we've also decided to move... And all these days we can work with a firm will because in this country we don't listen so much to the sound of falls, but it's about public psychology, public real estate, and how we get out of this crisis by putting people in the center and protecting them. But, Mr. Aragones, it has been four days for you – it has been four days for you. And you have to decide why it can't be done. You have to decide: you have to decide whether you want to be a true president or you want to be a guardianship president. He has to decide whether he wants to shield public servants or wants Junts to end up carrying education and sanitation. And you have to decide whether to believe in the dialog table or not to believe in the dialog table. You have to decide. And while you decide, I'm already announcing that from Comú we can give through the negotiations until you are publicly committed to saying that Junts will not enter the government, neither now nor during the rest of the legislature, because Catalonia deserves to move forward. We need a government that truly works, a progressive, left-wing government that gives real exits to the crises we are experiencing. And that's why he also asks you to raise the sanitary cords between progressive forces. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.111.0	To answer, the deputy president of the government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.112.0	Mrs. Albiach, what this country cannot do is an electoral repetition. I believe that in a situation of pandemic in which so many people are patenting and after a very long intermission for what it does to the Government of Catalonia..., I would like to recall that the Government in office is in operation since the disqualification of President Quim Torra, on September 28, 2020; therefore, around two hundred and thirty days in office. Therefore, what we cannot do is an electoral repetition. From here, we need to look for ways to unlock the situation in which we are. The first thing we need to see is that we have a large majority in favour of economic and social reconstruction, of making it a green clause, a feminist clause, in order to generate prosperity for everyone; a clear majority also bets that it is necessary to unblock the political conflict with the State on the basis of amnesty and the right to self-determination, and that this calls into question the four political forces that are in this Parliament, as I did in my investment debate: the question, obviously, the Republican Left, the question, the question, the question of the UPC and the question also to you. I think we need to be able to explore on our own day all the possibilities to avoid an electoral repetition, which is what this least country would deserve. I want to thank you for the step you've taken in Comú We can in these last few days to get involved in a unlock. And I also want to see that arithmetic is what it is and that, therefore, from here we must be able to see how we can generate these consensuses. You've made an accusation of the negotiations. I think what you shouldn't be doing right now is this, so that you can accuse us of some political forces, reproducing it on your own days. I think we have a week ahead of us because this country doesn't have to go back to the polls, citizens don't deserve it. There are some results of the 14th of February that allow this vast majority, which is the majority of solutions, the majority that must bring the solution to the hard conflicts, the hard problems that this country has. And I am convinced that we will arrive and that we will avoid electoral repetition. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.113.0	Question... [[He asked the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the need for effective housing policies and to stop treating denunciations as a public problem.]] [[317-00012/13]] ... to the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, to respond orally in plenary on the political situation. The question is posed by Ms. Montserrat Vinyets, from the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.114.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Mr Aragonès, behind the charges there are no figures, there are people. On the 12th of April at the barri de la Barceloneta one day he tried to lead life jumping through the balcony while the anti-valves were acting. When you went to the Raval, Rudy was self-injured. The situation is dramatic, and the context on the street begins to be a pressure cooker. The next May 18th has already foreseen a new denunciation to the Poble-sec, on the road Lleida, where the intervention of Brimo has been expressly predicted. We have a very big problem, and we have the feeling that we are not giving it enough importance on the political agenda. Mr Aragonès, at the end of the day the CUP asked the Councillor of the Interior, Mr Sàmper, if he agreed that he could not treat the denunciations as a public matter. Mr. Sàmper said he shares this layout. However, yesterday, without going any further, there was an act at the Raval on the part of the anti-foulers, an act from which five people were held, who fortunately have already been released a few minutes ago. Mr. Aragones, as you explain, in a situation of pandemic, of job insecurity, in which the counterparts are each time higher and the salaries are lower, in which we have an investment agreement where we have set priorities, as it explains that since your government is still the same, without turning the tide to face this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.115.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Pere Aragonès, Vice President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.116.0	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Madam MP, there is an agreement between the Republican Left and the CUP that the housing situation is one of the priorities. It is on the basis of the presuppostarial objective, of the nine legislative instruments that we must be able to put on the table, but also in a different way that there must be, that we must be able to work much better for what it does to the case in which ill-advisedly comes to a denunciation. And in this sense, what we need is to get the government out of the way as soon as possible. A functioning government, so I kept what was the situation of the previous government there. And, therefore, to set aside a new government as soon as possible, which I also allow to take a step forward in the better, even more, of the policies in defense of the habitation that we have already been carrying out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.117.0	To answer the question, has the word Ms. Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.118.0	Mr. Aragones, don't you consider that the real problem of public order, that the violence of truth is the one that causes the backs of anonymity with theirs at the other end of the world that speculates with a basic good? That people who are concentrated to avoid relocations precisely what they do is exercise collective self-protection against these attacks, against this lack of protection? That the real problem of public order we have with the Sareb, with a 45_percent of public capital and a 55 of private capital, that very important injections of money, that is precisely managed for these private partners that have managed it as poorly as they could, without any control and that now we count the debt of Sareb as public debt? That the real problem is not that tourist floors are allowed, even if the housing applications are not covered? That the real problem of public order we have with the Constitutional Court, that escapes any law that understands housing not as a commodity, that changes this consideration? Aren't we gonna plant ourselves sometime? Miri, here's a problem. The councillor of Mr. Calvet, of his government, has not done the dues. We've had the opportunity to acquire a lot of... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.119.0	To answer, the deputy president of the government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.120.0	Madam Member, the legislature that began on February 14th and that we have already been able to set in motion, with the formation of a government, must have in defence of rights one of its priorities, and one of these is the right to a home, the right to housing. And, in this sense, far from the last few years in the Parliament of Catalonia, there have been very powerful initiatives, some of which have been dropped, in this case, by the Constitutional Court, and there are nine lifetimes to be able to reach these same objectives as well. Many times it is not only what the law allows us to do, but also, beyond what the law marks as binding, what we can do from our own political action. And, in this sense, keeping the social logger and compromising the social logger in cases that are also property property back is one of the government's commitments that can continue to do much more. And we're gonna have to do it with a lot of intensity. The exit from the pandemic will still see in a much clearer way the inequalities that exist in our country. And for this reason, housing policies – housing policies that need to be properly provided for in the budget, but also housing policies that need to be kept in full value and parliamentary support – will be a key element. And I am convinced that the collaboration we have with your parliamentary group will be a decisive element because it can be this way. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.121.0	He asked the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, to reply in full on measures to curb the escalation of violence and insecurity. [[Ask the Vice President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about measures to curb the escalation of violence and insecurity]] [[317-00016/13]] Asks the question to Mr. Ignacio Garriga, of the Parliamentary Group of VOX.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.122.0	What steps will the Government take to curb the escalation of violence and insecurity in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.123.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Pere Aragonès, Vice President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.124.0	There is no escalation of violence and insecurity, and we will continue to bring to an end the policies of citizen protection, of citizen security that makes the Squad Squad Squad Squad in collaboration with local police.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.125.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.126.0	Once again, the separatists and the left remain committed to denying the reality of the neighborhoods and cities of Catalonia. They come here and repeat as a mantra that there is no problem with crime, illegal immigration or occupation. They talk about isolated cases, but yes, they point and shoot those who do dare to denounce the situation in Catalonia. Mr. Aragonès, get out of your bubble once and for all, go down to the streets and listen to the neighbors. When you do – when you do – you will understand the suffering of so many mothers waiting for their daughters to return home, or the fear of so many elders when they go shopping, or that of so many merchants, who are afraid to suffer assaults in their business. This week, while you were sharing your armchairs and prebendas, we have been in Calella visiting the neighbors and listening to their complaints and first-hand knowing the consequences of the policies of multiculturalism that you have promoted since the Generalitat. Because where you have set up a MENA center, the neighbors cannot live in freedom, Mr Aragonès, because dozens of criminals camp wide on the streets, sow terror and skip any kind of restriction. But, look, the stone that one of them threw at us is another anecdote, but it has nothing compared to what the neighbors suffer every day, neighbors you are denying you can live in peace, in crime-free neighborhoods, and those you are permanently attacking, when you raise your voice to denounce the reality that you suffer every day in your neighborhoods. But, look, you're not gonna be able to shut up about reality. Reality, for example, like Antonia's, an 80-year-old woman who has been assaulted twice; they stole the necklace from her neck and ripped the ring from her fingers. But you will not be able to continue to hide the reality, as I say to you, in Catalonia, neither you nor the propaganda bodies that so many billions cost the Catalans a year. And you know why? Because we are not going to allow it, we are going to denounce in all the forums that the impunity of criminals has to end. We will point out to those responsible for every robbery, every assault and every violation, Mr Aragonès. And we are going to give voice to millions of Catalans who are fed up with their policies and their false goodism. Mr Aragonès, once and for all regain security in the streets and abandon your useless separatist approaches. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.127.0	To answer, the deputy president of the government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.128.0	The coexistence of people from different cultures in our country is not, nor will it ever be, a motivating increase in insecurity. To say that is plainly false. To say this is to try to criminalize the various origins and cultures that exist in this country. And, therefore, before this speech as close to parties as his, from the extreme right, we will put on a wall, which is the wall of the right and the wall of the defence of the right, from the right to freedom, from the right of all people to have a future of prosperity and obviously also from the right to the security of everyone. Miri, to speak of insecurity, you refer to the case of Calella, of the ancient hostel La Gaviota. Say we don't know him. Well, I, in fact, live right in the town hall on the side, so I know him perfectly well. On the 27th of April, there was a special device in front of some incidents that occurred. It started on 30 April by the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, set off jointly with the local police and there have been concrete actions. But try to assimilate what are episodes of illegal activities that may be there, episodes of violence that can be produced, punctually, in some places of the country with cultural diversity exist in this country or with the origin of people arriving in our country in a situation of precariousness, fleeing from fame and misery..., try to associate this is a breach of coexistence that we cannot accept, and that you are subscribing. Who encourages the fragmentation of our society's cohesion? Who promotes insecurity and violence? So, for example, they encourage leaders of their party who have been accused by the prosecution, to whom they ask for two years of imprisonment, precisely, for a xenophobic attack on the centre of minors in Masnou. And you can say no, but when it's said, "Let's go get them, motherfuckers, let's burn down the shelter, let's kill you, it's clearly an incitement to hatred and violence that can't take place, not Masnou, not Catalonia, and we'll always face them. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.129.0	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Last day I ended up making a reminder about the Code of Conduct. I'll be right back. Mr Garriga, Article 7.2 of the Code of Conduct of the Parliament of Catalonia says that Members must maintain at all times a respectful conduct and also a scrupulous and exemplary attitude, according to the principle of equality, without discrimination on grounds of gender, sexual orientation, creeds, ideology, origin, social condition, ethnicity, language or any other. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] Why ask me the word, Mr. Garriga?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.130.0	Article 87, for allusions addressed directly to me in the paragraph.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.131.0	Yes, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I didn't go straight to you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.132.0	Yes, you did, Mrs. Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.133.0	One moment. I told him I remembered last day the Code of Conduct. It's not an excuse. I have given you an express indication that you take into account this Code of Conduct when you ask questions and remember what must be the capture of all Members of this Parliament. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You don't have the word, Mr. Garriga. I gave him an indication; that's not an excuse. Keep going. He asked the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, to respond orally to the plenary on political events. [[He asked the Vice-President of the Government, replacing the President of the Generality, about the possibility of entrusting a public and independent audit on the management of the health crisis caused by the covid-19]] [[317-00014/13]] Asks the question to Mr Albert Batet, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.134.0	Many honourable Presidents, members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, have not spent any week without repression. Since the last session, we have seen how the Court of Auditors has begun to demand excessive bonds, suffocating the economy of some families, as denounced by Mr Albert Royo, the former head of the Diplomat. From Junts to Catalunya, all the support and all the solidarity. And why be clear, before the lies, the defamations and fake news of Mr. Carrizosa, of Ciutadans, against the militancy of Junts, we suffer repression together, and we are clear that only together can we advance and win. Mr. Vice President Aragonès, experts say that the pandemic has entered the phase of control in Catalonia. Sense of doubt, the vaccination rate helped. This positive development has allowed some decisions in these last few days: raise mobility restrictions, end the curfew, extend restoration times and start planning the night oci opening. With all caution, with all caution, let's begin to see the light at the end of the tunnel. For this reason, from Juntes to Catalonia, we believe that it is time to consider the need to assess with detail, with rigour, with transparency, the management of the crisis, with all its futures. To analyze well what has been done, because things have been done very well girls; to analyze well what needs to be improved, because there are many things to be improved; to learn from what we should have done differently. Yesterday, the British Prime Minister, Mr Boris Johnson, committed the House of Commons to commission a public and independent audit of the pandemic management. Yesterday, too, a report of independent WHO experts was published, in which the international response to covid-19 was inadequately dictated – with very strong conclusions. We have a duty to the citizenry, as does the Public Administration in an advanced company. And that is why, Mr Aragonès, we would like to know, like the Vice-President, whether he has valued the possibility that the Government will carry out a public and independent audit, because we have the obligation to draw from the relevant lessons, for a solvent and effective Administration that is admirable in the Catalan Republic that we want to build. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.135.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Pere Aragonès, Vice President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.136.0	Thank you very much, President. As you very well said, the acceleration of the vaccination campaign, the effectiveness of the measures taken by the Government of Catalonia, the professionalism of health workers, essential services and the commitment of the citizenry have allowed us to begin to light a light in the tunnel of covid-19 and, therefore, we can begin to approach the exit. The fall in the name of contagious diseases, the fall in the name of hospitalised persons, also the ICUs, has occurred in one form every time more pronounced and we celebrate it. This is what allowed some of the restrictions to be relaxed so as to recover economic and social activity, which had remained with significant limitations in this year of pandemic. And, therefore, we need to begin as soon as possible the economic and social reconstruction and move from the liberation of restrictions to a reconstruction in which the impulse of the Government of Catalonia must have a key element. And in this sense the government – this government in operation, but also the government of the past legislature – has always acted transparently, with the will to facilitate data. In fact, I want to remind you that we were the first to place data on the deaths due to covid-19 from funeral data and that other administrations or the Government of the State have completed it many months later. And, therefore, we will activate everything that is the transparency mechanisms necessary to be able to make the assessments that are needed. But that's why I dropped one thing. I think it's important. For this reason, what it is possible to get out of the situation of a functioning government and that, therefore, there may be a government with all the capacities that it can not only facilitate all that is the retention of accounts, but can also advance in economic and social reconstruction. And it coincides with you with one of the elements you explained to the beginning. Although we are overcoming the pandemic, we also need to overcome the repression that is maintained. And from here all the support for all the people who have been retaliated today for the Court of Auditors or for the prosecution and, obviously, we will also be at their side, because the solution to the political conflict that we have is self-determination and amnesty. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.137.0	He asked the Vice-President of the Government, replacing the President, to respond orally in plenary on the latest political developments. [[He asked the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the limitations of the Government in function and the urgency of forming a new one.]] [[317-00013/13]] The question is posed by Mr. Josep Maria Jové, of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.138.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies... Vice-President, it will be difficult to intervene today in this House and to absolve's of the political context in which we live. We will not see that this account between us does not have an impact on Parliament's day-to-day and on a legislature that has not just come to an end. Today we would like to ask them for economic recovery, for measures to support the citizenry so necessary and urgent in order to be able to deal with the cathastrophe of the coronavirus in health, in the economy, in living conditions and also in our democracy. We would like to ask him for the day-to-day and this while coughing and difficult, but also so vital to help people – certainly, this would also involve talking about approving assumptions that, as we are today, seem ill-suited. We would, too, like to ask him for the unsurpassed public policies to implement that must enable us to get out of this crisis with a transformation of the economic and social model in which we live, because the crises that we suffer do not make them pay back the usual ones. We would like to ask, Vice-President, also for the strategy and its compromise and that of the government that should preside over the republic, this unrelenting objective that we want for social justice. We'd like to ask for all this and we'd like to be able to discuss it and move from words to words, but we can't make it happen, because we don't have a full-function government and it's been over two hundred days. And it's been more than eighty days since I kept the country in uncertainty and provisionality. In doing and defecating as if nothing, in saying today and say goodbye on the morning. It's frustrating and I kept the country in absolute misunderstanding. We are ahead of a national and social emergence. For this reason, we insist so much on the need to make a government and do so now, because at the same time we are ahead of a historical opportunity, which is provided by the majority of seventy-four independent and 52_percent members of the popular vote. You can't mess them up. For this reason, we celebrate that today you are producing a thaw to unblock the investiture. Now it seems to be – now it is – that everyone has now conspired to cast the shadow of elections that do not help anyone, because what helps is to move forward and do it now. And invest and have government already. So, we're asking him, Vice President, how is the government tied up without being able to exercise full functions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.139.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Pere Aragonès, Vice President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.140.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. A functioning government has very clear limitations. The first of these is that they cannot present bills in this Parliament and the need for a legislative agenda to move forward in modernizing the country, into this transformation that is needed in this economic and social reconstruction, this need we need to be able to bring about with a new government that can be set in motion. Nor can a government in office present assumptions and, therefore, the most important tool for an entire exercise, for an entire year to bring public policy to terms and, in the end, to concreteize in available resources what are the measures that this Parliament approves to improve the living conditions of the citizenry. Therefore, it is a necessity that there may be an investment as soon as possible to put the country on the march again. In these more than 220 days of functioning government, we've been doing a task and I think a task that I value positively, above all to cover bleeding, emergencies, which can be done by a functioning government. We have done this, for example, with the support measures for the social and economic sectors affected by the cove, placing us clearly in the vanguards from the point of view of the autonomous communities, multiplying by three the half of the aid that has been done throughout the State, Catalonia multiplying by three. In fact, almost 50 percent of the aid that the autonomous communities have given to the sectors affected by the pandemic are girls for the Government of Catalonia. So we could stop the hemorrhage, but now it's not just about this, it's about rebuilding the country, and that's why it needs all the momentum. And, therefore, it is more necessary than ever – more necessary than ever – that it is possible to produce an investment and that the government is able to operate with all the speed, with all the tools and with all the energy. And here I'm totally compromised. I have been working, since the very 14th of February, to be able to reach consensus, to be able to reach consensus with a large majority of parliament, which exists in this Parliament. And I think we should reflect, this vast majority of Parliament, on all those who defend the freedom of political prisoners and the return of exiles, who defend the right to decide on Catalonia and an economic and social reconstruction in order to benefit the citizenry, we should not neglect this opportunity. I'll keep trying, because I'm convinced it's possible. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.141.0	He asked the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, to reply orally in plenary on the political situation. [[Ask the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the need to form a new government with full capacity to act]] [[317-00015/13]] The question is posed by Mr. Salvador Illa, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.142.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Vice-President, as President, the said April 29th, during the first session of control of this thirtieth legislature, I had occasion to remind you that, from now on more than fourteen months after the World Health Organization sanctioned the iniquitousness of the pandemic, Catalonia has carried half the time with a functioning government. The more it takes to have a government with full capacity for action, the more irrelevant and inoperative is the Government of the Generality. You yourself have now recognized the limitations of a functioning government in your answer to Mr Young's question. Fifteen days later, we're right there, Mr. Aragones. And tomorrow it will be three months that the Catalans voted. I see myself in the obligation to reiterate the question I asked you: Mr Aragonès, what do you think you are doing? If he thinks he's gonna do something. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.143.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Pere Aragonès, Vice President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.144.0	Mr. Illa, the investiture doesn't fall from the cell. You can be looking at the one waiting for something to show you. They must fight and seek consensus. I'm what I'm working on from the night of the 14th of February. And I've questioned a large majority. And I'm going back to question this vast majority. I look at the deputies who want to see defeated those who defend the right to self-determination and amnesty, who do not want an economic and social reconstruction to be completed. Today there is a part of these chambers representing these members of the blockade, of the non-solution. They look like they're smiling under the mask, as the smile is noticed, as they want to be sure that this majority is not able to be effective. I therefore believe that we must not give this satisfaction, but rather that we must give it to the citizenry, which has been waiting for more than 220 days for this government to walk, for a new government to be able to give solutions to all the citizens of this country. I am convinced that this will be the case if we all put it on our side. I'm taking it from the same night on the 14th of February, and we've got a few days to make it possible. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.145.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Salvador Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.146.0	Thank you, Madam President. I'm lucky you had to hurry up, Mr. Aragones. Look, maybe I can help with two suggestions, which are at the same time two petitions. It is not time for vetoes – first suggestion – nor for exclusions, Mr Aragonès. It's time to sum up, it's time to agree, it's time to work folds to unlock the country's energies and finish winning the virus. This is the veto he vetoed on social democracy in Catalonia, originally in Europe. Catalonia is Catalonia of all, it's plural, it's different. We all respect each other. You don't feel like you're vetoing Catalonia's first game right now, so the Catalans decided. We go all together, no toilets and no vetoes. First suggestion. As I suggest, Mr. Aragones. With all the respect I have for you personally and politically – all the respect I have for you personally and politically – you have had a very important support for the past elections and yours is a party..., you represent a very important party in Catalonia. But, look, you tried it, and at least until today you didn't get out. He's tried it twice: March 26th and March 30th. I think it's not strange to ask who won the election, because the Catalans gave more votes to the candidacy I represent, I can try an investiture. Take it easy, allow it, since you have not left and there are thirteen days left to reach the limit of May 26, which won the elections and obtained the confidence of the Catalans intend to articulate a government of left, progressive, that without the toilets aggregate the energies that today Catalonia needs to get out of the way to go on the offensive and to defend a model of Catalonia and Spain different from what we have experienced these past years. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.147.0	To answer, the deputy president of the government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.148.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Illa, look, the political forces are free to determine with whom they make the pacts, and that's not saying vetoes or stories. [[Widow's remorse.]] Therefore, they have freedom with whom they make the pacts. And what's to be done is to try to find agreements. I've been wearing since the 14th of February trying to find deals. You're like the one sitting on a bench waiting to see you pass it past the story. So try to make sure the others don't get caught up. So, look, I don't think he's going to get married – I don't think he's going to get married. You're asking me to take a step on the side. So no, I'm not taking a step at the side. I will defend my candidacy for the presidency of the Generality, because..., not for me, but for the sake of what represents the outcome of the 14th February, which is the opportunity to make an economic and social reconstruction of this country in green, feminist, progressive, with a new way of governing, based on negotiation and dialogue, but also with all the determination that our goal of independence from this country, from the Catalan Republic is the best that can pass it and to defend it always, with the civics and with the democracy that always – always – have characterized this movement. And, therefore, Mr. Illa, follow him as often as you need; I will not take a step side by side, because the Republican Left project in ninety years of history has never taken a step side by side and less will do so now. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.149.0	After the control session, we pass now to the next point of the order of the day. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the commissions (art. 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure)]] Communication to the Ple of the composition of the months of the commissions. As you know, the proposed divendres, May 7, were the months of the Commission of the Statute of the Deputies, of the commissions of the Syndic of Greuges, of the Union of Accounts and of the Control of the Performance of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. In accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, and once elected in the months of the commissions, its composition must be communicated to the Plenary. The composition and election of the members of the months of the commissioned commissions is included in the file of the Ple, which has been distributed at the entrance of this hemisphere. I say to them, therefore, that I should get away from their reading. [[Pause.]] If that is possible, if all Members approve of it, we will complete what is laid down in Rule 49.2 of the Rules. And we'd get to the next point of the order of the day. [[Resolution proposals]] [[250-00008/13 and 252-00002/13]] The third item on the agenda is the motion for a resolution on the compromise for a diverse and cohesive Catalonia of rights and freedoms. Before we begin the debate, I am sure that, as agreed at the last meeting of the Spokesman's Committee, we will jointly substantiate the debate on this motion for a resolution, which was presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, of En Comú Puem, of Junts per Catalunya and the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature - A New Cycle per Guanyar, with the proposal for a resolution on the creation of a study committee on institutional and structural racism in Catalonia, which corresponds to the fourth point of the order of the day and which was presented for the same four parliamentary groups mentioned. Therefore, in the first place, the proposed parliamentary groups will intervene, for a maximum of 12 minutes each, as agreed. Therefore, there is now the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra of Catalonia, Mr Pau Morales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.150.0	Okay. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Councillors and Councillors, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, press companies and the citizens who are listening to us today, I would like to begin this first intervention that I am doing as a Member of the Young Republic sending a greeting to university and secondary students who in these very moments are mobilizing for the educational demands and before the youth emergence that we live in. And I salute you with the wish that in the near future there may be a new republican government that will shrink the demands of the street. We are considering the Catalonian Parliament a democratic pact of rights and freedoms for a different and cohesive Catalonia. I am proud to know that it is not a proposal that comes out of chance, but rather a long tradition, a long struggle of democratic radicality and compromise towards the culture of the pa, respect and diversity, which have always been the engine of progress in our country. It may seem that with the intervention that we hardly have to hear a few minutes ago and that from the Republican Group we reject in a frontal way..., that it doesn't matter, that we don't want to explain the reasons for which this democratic pact can be renewed. But I'll try to do it. In our opinion, we need to renew and situate the consideration of Members now, at the threshold of a social and economic crisis resulting from a pandemic that has put us ahead of a miracle as a society; now that the democratic crisis and the return of rights that we see every day to our society has not ceased; now that the 14-F will have, unfortunately, the date of the eruption of an extreme right uncomplicated to the Catalan chamber. This broad democratic pact is not so much a reaction at a point in time, nor an agreement of legislative iniquities, but rather a step back from the work done in this Parliament and in the Government for years to achieve great consensus before those who want to make hate speech the basis of their political action. So it was 2008, when the national pact for immigration was signed, appreciating diversity, defining a cohesion area and a common public culture. So it was also 2019, when all parties with parliamentary representation signed a first agreement, unanimously, to hold a debate in front of migratory phenomena and racism and xenophobia. I need to renovate it. And I can renew it, too, to protect some of the consensus of this chamber, such as the equality plan of Parliament, or get this Parliament to be able to make institutional statements again, which we see is not possible, unfortunately, by the veto of the extreme right. This is also a compromise that we see every day in the streets of our country in the form of solidarity and mutual support, from countless spaces of self-organisation, from social movements, from entities and from institutions, especially those that are more or less in the streets: the assemblies. So it is also this anti-feixist compromise that is shown in the debate of ideas that exist within our society, where the feminisms and the most emerging demands of the LGTBI collection, each time are more majorities, and they will - they will - rake racism, the LGTBiphobia. A mention, the fight against the LGTBifóbia, that we do with special strength today, at the gates of a new May 17th, that we have to claim more than ever. So it's also when we put education and culture at the centre, in their globality, that we want them to permeate all the spheres of our society so as not to give space to obscurantism. But this anti-fessistic tradition doesn't only look back in the past few years. And the Republicans know it well. Because the struggle for freedom and democracy in the face of authoritarianism is also a reason why the Republican Left has been founded for some years now. And this also brings us to the bitter result of the defeat before the barbarism, which in Catalonia was settled with the assassination of President Lluís Companys, the only democratic president of Western Europe murdered at the hands of fascism, as a symbol of so many reprisals that, from here, from Catalonia, we are now trying to rescue from the oblivion of the wedges. And alert, because ours is not a path of defeats, but of struggle, of a struggle that we are here, but the woman with consciousness of humanity, with universal brotherhood. For Republicans, the rise of the extreme right will never be good news. [[Greetings.]] All those who struggle for freedom, democracy and the rights of all people will always find an unconditional ally in the republicans. That's what I'm talking That's how you apply it. We are proud to have as referents people who have had to sit in front of the bench of defendants for defending the right of Catalonia to decide its own future the U of October. We, fortunately, don't die... and we're not, we can't be company with those who sit in the other band, can we? , as the popular accusation in this trial. A differential fact that shows the double measuring rod of the Spanish State before the ideas of the extreme right. A differential fact that allows us to hear also the lightning growth, the banalization and the rapid normalization of the extreme right in this political cycle. With these resolutions, today we want to make sure that this is not going to be the case in the Catalonian Parliament. We want to make sure they can't afford our company. And they won't be able to because today we claim this chamber as a space of freedom, of defending human rights, of all people. Because today a vast majority of Members and Members will express their sense of unanimity, which is the feeling of a society that wants to take the hate speech. And that they will fight them, with data, but also with consciousness, and with serenity that they cannot divide us, that they will not be able to mark us the rhythm, that young people, women, the LGTBI collection, people migrated, all those who fight for the rights and freedoms we are much more, and we want to be protagonists in little equality of the present and future of our society. Today we propose two resolutions to strengthen and strengthen the country's consensus, which would be threatened by the eruption of the extreme right. And to start building together a new society that is fairer, freer, more republican and more opportunities for everyone. And that's why one of them is the proposal to create a study committee on institutional and structural racism, that to judge what we have to feel today is more necessary than ever. Because we know that we will only banish hatred if at the same time we achieve the equality of civil, political and social rights for all people living in Catalonia, on the margins of their origin or condition, and that the Republicans do consider us to be citizens and citizens. And that is why we continue to demand, even from here, a consensus of our society: the derogation from the foreign law, because there is enough. [[Greetings.]] With these resolutions, we also demand the need to improve ourselves every day. Because no one in Catalonia has any doubt that politics is a tool for the civil service, the best tool for democracy, and the only tool for those who have no power or acquired privileges. Today, we have to look in the eye and ask ourselves what we can do better because no one can have any doubt about it. We need to make it clear that citizen disappointment at politics, uncertainty and precariousness, is the adoption that brings about intolerance and authoritarianism. In front of those who want to divide us and sow hatred for our society, they call for broad agreements. And that's why I'm asking you to vote in favour of these motions for resolutions made by Esquerra Republicana, Junts per Catalunya, the CUP and In Comú Pode ; some proposals that we have worked on at various meetings and where we would also like the PSC to be added, where it was already. Because we, before fascism, are always there, raising a wall of rights and freedoms. And we don't think they're worth dyeing or hiding in subterfuges. I'm done. They won't get mixed up. We've got huge challenges ahead of us. If we have been able to agree to stand before the extreme right is empires and we have to be able to agree to make possible a Republican Generality that follows the antithesis of all this discourse that wants to divide the country, that wants to break our society and that wants to end the rights and freedoms of the majority. Because alternative cal, cal horitzo, cal can give answers and solutions on the table. Let us remember today that if the extreme right is the third force in the Congress of Deputies, unfortunately it is also because of a frivolous and absurd electoral repetition. I want to tell every town in our country that they belong to us, that we have every man to move forward to Catalonia of the future and that we will prove to be at your side, at the side of the people in front of the back and before the uncertainties of the present. You also have all these citizens and citizens want their deputies and deputies to be all on the same side, alongside the city of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.151.0	Next, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the word "Mrs. Aurora Madaula".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.152.0	Thank you, President. Thank you very much. Today we are here to present a proposal for a resolution on the compromise for a Catalonia of rights and freedoms, diverse and cohesive, and a proposal for the creation of a commission of study on institutional and structural racism in Catalonia. And if I tell you the truth, I wouldn't like to be here defending these two proposals, not to be defending these two proposals, because that would mean that Catalonia still has full rights and freedoms and that these are not in danger, but it hasn't been that long. Independentists have seen how our civil and political rights are violated, but not only, because this danger has been accentuated with entry into Parliament of political forces clearly, clearly and clearly, you would contain these democratic principles, if it is true that these attitudes have already been used for the extreme right, such as the exaltation of parliamentary forms, the constant attack on institutions and communication media, the use of minds, those make news, such as mantra and the usual speech tool to create false states of opinion..., they have already been used, these elements, for other groups of this Parliament, such as those that we already know, but it is obvious that they have been used, as they have been, in the past, as well as in the past. It is true that before this new threat to our democracy there has been a debate on how to deal with this threat. It is a debate because this threat to our democracy puts us in danger of weakening it... but it still weakens our institutions more. But we thought that we could not stay without doing anything; that we could stay without doing nothing was not the option. The debate about what to do to stop the extreme right and who are the receptions that work best is open – it's open –, nobody has the best reception, nobody knows how to really end the extreme right, but normalizing political actors, ignoring social threats, whitening attacks on women or discrimination against the LGTBI collection was not the answer we want and believe we need to donate. We have had contacts with other parliamentary groups in Europe, for example with the German Die Linke, and we have been in contact to be able to make a coinciding strategy, a collective strategy, because they all agree that, before the problem, before a problem like this, that it does not only affect institutions but also affects society, people, the country, we cannot do as if nothing else, we cannot look at another band. It is true that it is not a local phenomenon, it is a global phenomenon, when the rise of the extreme right has exposed the crisis of social democracy and even the whole crisis of the democratic values that they question. It's not new, we've seen it in Europe, but we don't want to go back. The extreme right grows when you don't fight it, and we're here to fight the extreme right, to fight it. It grows when it is not responsible for its attacks, when its parliamentary activity is normal or when it is agreed and votes of the extreme right are accepted for political objectives. The Spanish State is a land for the growth of the extreme right. In 1975, the dictator Francisco Franco, of the Feixists and of the extreme right, died in bed, but the Francos did not die; the Francos still remain in their place. They wanted us to believe that there was a model transition, a peaceful and model transition that had ended with the franchise. But it turns out it was a pact, a pact..., too many times I have quoted here, in this hemicicle, the book The Bloody Transition, by Mariano Sánchez Soler, which I recommend again, because see that it was not a peaceful transition, but neither was it a model transition. Because it turns out that the franchise still lives and lives in Spanish institutions. In 2017, Stéphane Michonneau, a professor of contemporary history, claimed that the adherents of Francoism have not yet disappeared at all; the adherents of Francoism have not yet disappeared at all to Spanish democracy. And I also said that the memory of the franchise, somehow, is still alive. Michonneau indicates that the State, the Transitional Rule, has not solved it. Although the Catalans did say that we faced Francoism in a much more obvious and faster way than the rest of the Spanish State, that the Spanish State, claimed that they had not been corrected and that the Francoism lived, this Francoism that we call the sociological Francoism, but also the institutional Francoism, which, as we have seen, lived. Now my Republican Left partner mentioned it, but it's not normal for a court to have a particular charge and a particular charge to be a very right-wing game. It's not very normal and we can't normalize it. Indeed, we do not believe that we should stand by and watch as political movements that consider heretics of this rule, of Francoism, enter our institutions to destroy them, and even make warnings, which seem threatening, as we have felt this morning here: "If we go to elections, be still more. It seemed like a threat to me. Exactly, that's what happened to the Spanish Congress of Deputies, when they went to elections, because their strategy was to normalize them, accept their votes, sign proposals with them. They're going to be reinforced. That's why I said that we in the Parliament of Catalonia wanted to bet on a different strategy, on a democratic line, because the democratic forces wanted to protect us, protect the equality of rights and the freedom of Catalonia, and for this reason from the beginning of the election we started working in an informal group but very serious to work to stop this entry from the extreme right into the Parliament of Catalonia. We will reach an agreement, an agreement for a parliament committed to democracy, rights and diversity, so that the Catalonian Parliament will fully appreciate this compromise in its if and in its if there are no racist attitudes, LGTBibics, authorities or masclists, from which these PRs that we are proposing today derive. In these proposals, which aim to shield Parliament from hate speech and advocacy of discrimination, we consider it essential to promote the reform of Parliament's Rules of Procedure so that the compromise is reinforced and sanctions applied when some Member of the House does not accept this compromise. But it is that Parliament's reform is absolutely necessary and very normal. We're the legislative power. We are working on drafting laws and amending them to adapt them to the new situations. That is why we cannot accept the Socialist Group's idea of eliminating the will of reform and amending the Rules. We think it's absolutely necessary, this modification. But it is now that there are already Members who have refused to compromise 'discrimination and psychological or sexual settlement at the time of taking the act. Can I imagine? So there are Members, eleven Members, who have refused to compromise 'discrimination and psychological or sexual settlement. This was one of the measures of the diversity plan approved in the previous legislature. And it is already expected that Parliament's Rules of Procedure should be amended to apply sanctions, because it is already expected that there would be cases in which this compromise would not be accepted. But what can we expect from anyone who denies male-based violence, from those who withdraw aid to entities that defend sexual and reproductive rights in Andalusia, or from those who impose parental pine on schools? Clearly, this could not have been done without the complicity of other parliamentary forces in other parliaments with which they work. For this reason, we urge our Government of the Generality not to do with other governments, not to do so; that we have a government of the Generality, in a future anti-feixist Catalan republic, which reproduces the criteria granted in this resolution and does not do with those governments that look at another side as Europe grows free zones of homosexuals, where abortion is penalized, where buses are organized to make outside the country the people of gypsy ethnicity or grow the names of doctors who raise the objection of conscience in order not to practice abortions or facilitate anticonceptual methods. We want our Government of the Generality, and in the future a government of the Republican Generality, independent and anti-fessist, old for the rights and freedoms of all the citizens of Catalonia. For our part, we commit ourselves to continue working, from the study committee that we propose to create, in order to draw up a shared diagnosis of racial, institutional and structural discrimination in all relevant areas, both public and private. We know that only with consistency and continuous work, as well as the accurate assessment of the actions that are given in both the public and private spheres, can stop the access of the extreme right, the rise of discrimination and hate speech to both institutions and society. That is why we regret that we have to learn from some groups that have devoted themselves to feeding these hate speech. Let us teach ourselves, that we suffer the violation of our civil and political rights, not one. Policies are political for people, for their welfare, to guarantee their rights. Symbols are important, symbols are very important, but politics is not just symbolic; that's why we commit ourselves to making changes and overseeing them. But we must assume that our actions also have consequences for society and that if our speech or our gestures lead to violence, we are setting a bad example for society. We are responsible and we must fight to stop the advent of the extreme right with more democracy, more equality, more diversity and more rights. And I can't end up without quoting Bertolt Brecht, a playwright compromised with the democracy that was persecuted for Hitler and had to flee to exile. He said: "There are people who fight one day, and they are good. There's no one else fighting a year, and they're better. They don't have to fight many years, and they're very good. But they have to fight all their lives; these are the essentials. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.153.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Madaula. Then there is the word, for the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar, Mrs Basha Change's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.154.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, these motions for resolutions that we are debating today have their origin in the pro-activity of the proposed parliamentary groups – our propo of the UPC, the group of commons, the Junts Group and the Republican Left Group – mainly to act forcefully and firmly before the peril of the dissemination of intolerant speeches and hate speech in parliamentary action. The Socialist Party, which in principle also seemed to be compromised with the defence of human rights until it was able to participate in the drafting and signing the two points of agreement that are the basis of this motion for a resolution, we have seen not only as a de facto retreat in the materialization of this compromise, but also as a search for subterfuges to prevent its application from succeeding or, if not, to avoid being part of this democratic wall in defense of human rights, but without being known. But the truth is it's known, and it's known a lot. Look, we don't play with the defence of dignity and the integrity of the people or the communities to which they belong. The CUP, as a manifest anti-feixist organization by definition and not by fashion, we have dealt with this issue with the centrality and with the respect it deserves, in addition to this commitment in defence of the rights and freedoms of any legitimate party and other secondary and absurd stings when we are talking about the lives at stake and the violation of the fundamental rights, such as, in this case, the right to honour, intimacy or self-image, or protected legal assets, such as the protection of young women and children; rights and assets that are particularly violated by these hate speech and that require unequivocal political compromise. In this sense, we have sought consensus in a common area of work that guarantees the vast majority in defence of human rights that the defence of human rights needs and allows us to equip ourselves with the essential tools to defend democracy, rights and diversity, including, of course, the modification of the Rules when they fail, including if this has meant, as it has done, to promote a text that for us is equal and minimal, but with which all participating forces feel identified to be able to defend it and to apply it. In particular, whether this has meant – as it has done – opening up an anti-faixist paradigm in which political forces have been eroded that when governments apply repression and authoritarianism, sending moves to name families and avies, such as with the five movement activists for habitation that this night have been caught up in a police revenge, in an attempt to demotivate the movement; that they want moves to empty the eyes of young people who are fighting with determination for a destroyed future; that they are disempowering less than their fate; or that they are trembling to, literally, hunt people in an irregular administrative situation and that they will then take the photos to the IEC, before, while they are doing the full van. And we did it because we understand that the consensus was about this, it was about setting these urgent priorities and meeting them. And that the perilousness of normalizing intolerance and hate speech in this room is not an option because there are views at stake. I respect the views of the Socialist Party. We'd really like to be surprised, but no. We have seen and are seeing as the Socialist Party this compromise is flexible depending on the electoral, party, talactic or strategic interests that convince here or that convince Madrid. But, as I was saying, it was predictable and not surprising. We are not surprised that a party that supports the 78th rule, because it is the 78th rule, and that it plays with the lives of people over forty years old, now we intend to sell that there are legal incompatibilities, not to say clearly that it needs these eleven plus six plus three votes to deploy its repressive and asphyxiating program to the people of Catalonia, as they already do in Madrid, and that, above all, they call "passing the page." So, as well as hearing the feeling of presentation of the papers, they have no other purpose to put up with the wheels; as well as manifesting the contrary vote of the UPC to accept not a single one to modify a text of which you yourself have been participants; yet, we have come to a consensus to be able to accept one of the papers. Why? Because that's about people's lives, because to defend people's lives, they're calling for consensus. That's not a joke. The intolerant speech and the hate speech constitute a real threat to democratic values, social stability and poverty. The speech of hatred is any form of communication that is an attack on a person or community by reason of identity, is to say, on the basis of what they are, quite rightly of ethnic origin, religion, nationality, descent, genera or any other identity factors. The repercussions of hate speech affect numerous areas of administration and institutional action and are embedded in society, fuelling discrimination and increasing rape each time more explicitly, such as the stoning of children's centres, the attempts at creaming people in situations of sensellarism or group rapes. Therefore, the institutions, as guarantors of the rights of the population, have the obligation to do so at all times to ensure equal treatment and non-discrimination. And, finally, in the case of the Members of this Parliament by legal empire as indicated by the code of conduct itself, which we have already had to serve for the first time today. In times of crisis, it is especially important to express a commitment in defence of human rights, because in times of crisis people who are vulnerable to the system, who are not vulnerable, people on the margins, the residue of society, others, become the object of these speeches. And why is this happening? Because whoever promotes hate speech is at the expense of the benevolent, the exploiter, the chief, if it's not directly. And he does it to keep this social hierarchy of what his power is. Because that's why we don't have the strength to fight what we're up against. The division of popular classes into exploited and super-exploited classes is one of the main points of the capitalist, heteropatriarchal and white supremacist system. Especially difficult, the criminalization of childhood that emigrates alone, creating in the imaginary collection first-born children and second-born children. This speech abandons the protection logic and embraces a criminal logic that, moreover, generates situations of exclusion, inequality and violence, from attacks on children's centres, which were later erupted, as the very management of these centres by the institutions. It cannot be that as society we walk towards non-punishment towards childhood, to include the psycho-emotional salvation of children to education and that, at the same time, the children migrated from this look. Putting limits on intolerant discourses and hate speechs is also an opportunity to push forward towards a more just, plural and cohesive society. Facing intolerant and hate speech means preventing these logics from becoming extinct and degenerate into something more dangerous. It means curbing incitement to discrimination, hostility and violence. And yes, and as long as that implies agreements and consensuses, great country consensuses, which guarantee rights by any means necessary, by whatever means already necessary. And let us not mingle with freedom of speech or confrontation of ideas. Parliament must be able to talk about everything. Parliament must be an area of confrontation of ideas and dialogue. And to make him frame the limits of the freedom of expression that are already framed – for whom he likes this standard mark – in the same Spanish Constitution in its Article 20.4. And they are already interpreted in various European sensitivities, which, basically, what they come to say is that it is a restrictive interpretation to prevent hard abuses and that parliamentary inviolability is neither an empire nor an excuse to attack wrongly and right people or communities for reasons of identity as we saw a few minutes ago. Nor do they allude questions of public order – that is to say, fashion – because freedom of speech does not take place until there is a clear danger of escalating violence, as is the case with hate speech. Therefore, we encourage and call upon all Members of the House to show their commitment to these proposals for a resolution in defence of human rights and the creation of the study of institutional and structural racism, which represent the study committee of the previous parliamentary term, but with greater depth. Because since the anti-racist movement years ago we have seen political and legislative initiatives in anti-racist matter have been marked by this reductionist view of circumscribe racism to the migrant fact. It is important to understand the dimension of racism beyond the administrative situation. It is important to understand the structurality and complexity of a problem that does not only affect people who are migrated, but also all those people who are perceived as not white and therefore racialized as inferior; because we remember that racialization is an act, it is a process, it is an action that is done, it is not a definition. The Gypsy people are not a clear example: a people who lives in Catalonia hundreds of years ago and who still, today, live stigmatized, rejected or folklored, in the best of cases, and always with the invisibility and appropriation of their contributions to Catalan society. It is important to understand how racism has an economic component, yes, but it also has a component of gratuitous cruelty based on the contrast that has been cooking for centuries in societies in the North and that needs social and institutional reparation in defence of human rights. And it is important to understand how these elements are finally translated into this capitalist, heteropatriarchal and supremacist system that is underpinned by the exploitation of radicalized, feminized and impoverished bodies, which acts as logical exploiters, colonialists and utilitarians. Therefore, we propose this study committee to understand what is the impact and the degree of measures that can be applied across the board throughout the public administration and that allow us to establish these measures to take on the responsibility that the Catalan institutions have with the different peoples and communities residing in Catalonia, and to begin the repair that with so much delay we are taking on. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.155.0	Thank you very much. Now the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, MP Jessica González. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.156.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, MPs; MPs. I can't be nervous in my first hemicle intervention. Moreover, when it is such an important issue, not only for me, but for my parliamentary group and, above all, for the people to whom I am dec, for the people for whom I am here, such as the migrant woman, Latin American, Afro-descendant, feminist, defender of the anti-racist and intercultural critical perspective, and also including religious diversity. And here I take this opportunity to congratulate the Muslim community, for the Eid Mubarak that begins today. And also these nerves and these guts that I have right now is because my country, Colombia, is experiencing a situation that is produced from the extreme right, from a government of decades ago, in which the extreme right door is not only fifteen days, but also carries years of murdering young people, murdering people of African descent, murdering indigenous people. So imagine the responsibility of saying everything that you can say and complement the other parliamentary groups that we have assigned to this work, because it was not about me or the Parliamentary Group in Comú Pode, but about a whole community, about this people that Eduardo Galeano called nobody, right? , who are people who are on the margins, but who also sustain life itself. The first motion for a resolution that we have tabled seeks to ratify this compromise for a diverse and cohesive Catalonia of rights and freedoms, and the creation of a study committee also on institutional and structural racism. Obviously, I would like to begin by thanking the entire disposition of the undersigned parliamentary groups that we have worked for this agreement together and the willingness to find a bad consensus on our differences; a consensus that has been much more than political, giving priority to democratic values, ratifying and reaffirming the compromise for a Catalonian Parliament with rights and freedoms and the inherent diversity of this country. So as we recognize this collectible work that has been set up, despite the different positions of the signatory groups, it is also important to point out that so that a democratic line against extreme right-wing formations is still broader and more effective, which is what interests us all, it should also have counted with the participation of political formations with which we also have ideological differences, such as City or the People's Party, that they did not even think to speak, perhaps because the extreme right was already contained in their formations until a few years ago, or the Socialist Party, which also wanted to dissociate itself from the agreement at the latest. Because while we make chords to find the ones we already agree on and identify people who are not there or different people, and we don't get to work on a broad and plural wall against those who are outside democratic consensus, we only serve to strengthen anti-democratic positions. Because this, and to be clear, this agreement does not normalize the presence of extreme right-wing formations in the Catalan Parliament, it does not go against one, it does not go against one, it does not mean in concrete terms: this has to combat hate speech coming from where they come, and here we are absolutely all, because all parliamentary groups have work to do. And when we talk about hate speech – we also make it clear – we don't talk about feeling offended, we talk about ideas based on hierarchies and ideas of superiority of groups of people that for their skin color, that for their expression of gender, that for their sexual orientation, religion or whatever, justify hate actions or discrimination that materialize in concrete and deplorable facts. And here we can stay with the example, right? to denounce the shootings in Norway in 2011, when Anders Breivik, a neo-Nazi militant of a far-right party, murdered about eighty young laborers because, in his opinion, they were complicit in the European invasion. And it would be convenient to stay with these types of examples. But we can also make memory of the wave of racist attacks that we held in 2019 at centres of smaller migrants alone in Canet de Mar, in Premià, in Castelldefels, and a few weeks ago in Torredembarra, or the attempt to cremate a person living without a roadblock to the Raval, or the attacks on Eva, the young trans who went through a brutal pallissa in Barcelona, or the denunciation of Muslim entities about the Islamic systemic use that makes the extreme right of Islam and that is an attack on the right to religious freedom and that today we have, as always, given examples. In front of hate speech or hate speech like those of this extreme right, that what you want is a narrower democracy where you charge every once in a while people, because they don't want or migrated people, except if they are speculator multinationals, obviously they don't want the Gypsy people, they don't want LGBTBI people, they don't want Muslim people, they don't want feminists, and they want to take human rights and dignity to the Catalan people. Before this proposal, we want to expand, we want to expand democracy. By extending it, we get it right from the hand and from all these collections that form part of its political target and, for that reason, they call concrete policies, not only declarations, since fighting extreme right-wing formations from institutions like the Parliament of Catalonia, begins not to show itself to be indifferent or to legitimize or normalize the growth of hate speech. But we have to say that generic complaints, institutional appeal to democratic values in abstract are not enough. They are not if we do not advance in concrete policies that reverse the basis of this hatred or, worse still, that deepened in measures that reinforce the same mark are out. A good example is migration policies, an institutional racism that stigmatizes the migrant population and presents it as a problem through concrete policies designed and applied for the same institutions that, in parallel, say scandalized, right? , because these policies relate to non-democratic values. So here we are contradicting each other all the time and here we do nothing. To make concrete policies we also need to hear how we got here. My companies have made, from different places, recurred at the historical level, but we also have to name the neoliberal policies of the last few years that are pre-charging, day after day, more and more people, because the concentration of wealth is in less hands each time. So far, most parties in this hemisphere have chosen not to confront neoliberalism and to reinforce it, leaving us with public services that we have suffered during a pandemic. And this is a good free space because these hate speech can continue to expand. That is why we need to replace ourselves with concrete questions. We need to work together, for example, because there are never more Catalan elections in which a thousand people, I repeat, a thousand people living here have no right to vote. Denial of such a basic and fundamental right, pillar of representative democracy and a basic element of recognition as a person, gives options, forgives, gives to racist and xenophobic options as we have here today. And not only to vote, but also to be chosen and to have some administrations that represent us all, as we see that it does not happen, unfortunately, in this Parliament. The creation of a commission of study on institutional and structural racism in Catalonia is already motivated by studies that entities such as SOS Racisme or the Observer for Discrimination, institutions such as the Sindico de Greuges have repeatedly denounced, both in the public and in the private sphere, difficulties in finding accommodation for police identifications based on the colour of skin, means of registering various people of origin or without fixed domicile and resulting difficulties in the world of social, health and educational services, among others. It is for this reason that it is necessary not only to study, but above all to repair. We're not just object of study and we're not just talking about migrant people, we're talking about repairing the hardships that this... this institutional racism causes in people's lives. We believe that only if we are able to think about how to rethink the social contract and the institutions, how to address the possible inequalities and how to draw future scenes that guarantee the right to housing, how to shield public services, how to diversify the economy into a greener, feminist model, with a quality and dignified occupation, a guaranteed income extended to everyone who really needs it, without taking into account the territories of all Catalonia, not only from the city but from each town and from each bar, but only starting to work together to overcome these inequalities will be possible to get out. From Common We can be aware that stopping hatred is not just from the institution since, in fact, it was the same institution that allowed the extreme right to be here today. We must make a joint strategy that calls for the responsibility of communication means and we also need above all those entities, social and venous movements that work every day from the territory to dignify life in our barrels, make them safer and more hateful, because before their racism, their homophobia, their masculinity, they keep us together. And this is a very important step. But we also say that we need a buy-in, that drives the changes we need. After more than eighty-five days of elections, we follow without government and this mental disconnection and in fact with the needs of the people of Catalonia, who need more than ever to feel protected, cared for, is totally untapped with media performances and negotiations marked by songs and more than the same. Fighting the extreme right requires building trust and community in our barrels and our peoples, but in concrete terms, in important politics, that is what is done to the territories and at least to us from in common we may have come to politics to be useful. So we encourage you to vote in favour of these proposals and move us to hold a Parliament on the rise of Catalans and Catalans. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.157.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. For the defense of the papers presented, he has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.158.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, advisors, deputies and deputies, we have seen on the European continent all types of barbarism far from our history. One would think that the lessons of the First World War would have been soon, but there was a resurgence of extreme nationalism that brought us the barbarism of the Second World War. And one would think that the lessons of World War II and the victory of democracies..., of allies—because they weren't all democracies—allies about Nazism should also lead to some historical lessons. And for a while it seemed like that. But one of the things I remember most in my political process is the Balkan war, and therefore the return of genocide and ethnic cleansing to the same heart of Europe. So that's why we shouldn't have learned lessons either. And despite that, we will find ourselves again at a time when hate speech actually flourishes and policies that follow in some countries seem aligned to give a patina of respectability, of legitimacy to these hate speech. Mention has been made to the self-proclaimed areas as free of LGBTI people in Poland. It is a difficult scandal that this is so, and indeed it should lead to more determined actions of the European Union. But we've seen a lot of other things that seem to have happened under the radar. We have seen groups of citizens volunteering in para-police skirmishes patrolling the Bulgarian border, animated and animated for the speech of the Bulgarian government of the moment to the hunt for the migrant, the migrant person. We've seen a minister of the Interior, a few years ago, in Italy, who encouraged the ships that arrived with migrants from North Africa to revel in canonades. We saw, also in Italy, as a government of the right at that time, that it seemed not so extreme compared to what we have now seen in Italy, but a government that cannot be said to be celebrated, but tolerated that there are citizens who, taking justice for their hands or a conception of justice for their hands, were setting fire to gypsy camps outside Italian capitals. We've seen – it's been done before, and you understand that it's not an easy resource for me, right? I understand you didn't say so with this intention, but we have seen the murder of seventy young Labour Social Democrats in Utoya or the murder of Labour MP Joe Cox for a Brexit supporter, right? , which launched British nationalist proclamations at the time of murder. Of course, a little trip: it's funny that whenever a terrorist of extreme right acts, then he subtracts the supposed mental disorders of this person as the severity and political or social significance of these acts of terrorism diminishes. It is the concrete form that extreme right-wing terrorism takes: the performance of an individual who is not as lonely as he is said to be acting in the framework of a given context, of certain discourses used for a certain protection from whom he understands his speech, who owns it and who shares it. So that's the warning I wanted to make, too, isn't it? , respects the forms of extreme right-wing terrorism and which must be treated as it is, which is extreme right-wing terrorism. We have seen the incendiary attacks on refugee centres in Germany. We have actually seen the stones and conflicts around juvenile centers here in Catalonia. We've seen many of these things and we can't passively watch them. He did not want to leave me either, because it is less known, but both in Chechnya and Slovakia there is growing anti-Gypsyism and there are also incendiary attacks against cases of Roma or Sindhi people. And I think it's also worth mentioning. Against all this, effectively, it must raise a wall, yes, and it must also apply all political intelligence. Because hate speech, even though it is very characteristic, effectively, of the extreme right, which proves..., it is opportunistic, the extreme right, proves to take advantage of any occasion to lay a falcon and use contradictions, the economic and social problems that a society goes through to propel itself, to use them as trampolines, to propel itself into power. Certainly, always in the name of a popular class which he immediately ignores if he accedes to power; some even hide in their electoral programs, they come with a marked neoliberal ideology. But they put the popular classes in their mouths, excite their pores, excite a war of the penultimate against the last, while those who carry the waxes are rubbing their hands. But the speech of hate doesn't just come from the extreme right, it can come from other political ideas. I have already mentioned one: a certain ethnonationalist conception, an extreme nationalism, also some political positions that sometimes identify themselves as the extreme left can run into hate speech in the sense that there is an issuer who has a target group and who encourages others to settle, rape, discrimination against the people who belong to this target group, let us say for reasons of reason, of identity, let us say for reasons that they have to see with their political affiliation, trade union, etcetera. And I think we actually have to do these reflections without doing us party toilets, huh? There was an intervention, the CUP spokesman in this debate, which said: "We have tried not to make party toilets, clean at the time, let us say, to address this issue. And it immediately went on, without a solution of continuity, to make it, not only to my parliamentary group, that we are already more agitated, but also to other groups of this chamber. Doesn't seem like the best attitude. Look, there's a question you have to see with the papers that we've presented. They were two: one era practically of style, which I understand is what it will take, and the other had to see with the need of the reform of the Rules or not. Let me put a question, which is our parent, before I explain the content of our question: we think that consensus is built; it is hardly dictated. And, therefore, this attempt to discipline the PSC also rhetorically to a certain conception of how to change the Rules based on attacking it and accusing it of not knowing what connections with the extreme right and I don't know what five shared political projects with the extreme right, so that's why I rejected it in full, which seems to me to be a very poor resource and, certainly, a pure party, when we're talking about things as serious as those we're talking about. What we say with the most substantial thought of the two we put forward is that we believe that there was in the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia and in the code of conduct the instruments sufficient to combat hate speech. Another thing is the two concrete examples that have been put forward, which have been said, let's say, to reform the Rules so that there is no need for unanimity for institutional declarations and some type of sanction to be imposed on those who do not want to sign certain commitments. That's what we can talk about, but it's what you say in the text that you consider to be saying that the Parliament must be shielded in the face of advocacy of discrimination and invites the political forces present in this chamber to push for a reform of the Rules that guarantees this shielding in front of the hate speech. Therefore, we say that Article 14.1 of the Rules of Procedure, Article 233 of the Rules of Procedure, Article 235 of the Rules of Procedure, in conjunction with the article that we have heard earlier on by the President, Article 7.2 of the Code of Conduct, and also in conjunction with Article 25 of the Code of Conduct, which are the guarantee measures of the Code of Conduct, or Article 26 of the Code of Conduct, which is the internal verification procedure when it is considered that someone has incomplete the Code of Conduct, including, obviously, manifestations that are poorly respected with citizenship or that contain discriminatory expressions, etc., or Article 27 of the Code of Conduct, which speaks of a sanctioning regime on these Code of Conduct violations, insofar as they are sufficiently written, if they are not sufficiently written. And this seems to us to be possible without being accused of conniving with the extreme right and laying it down as a reasonable debate whether or not to agree, or it is necessary or not to reform the Rules. Another thing is that someone has the intention, in this fight against the ideas of the extreme right, to stand out especially and make himself worth it and do it, let's say, a name contrasting with others, but this seems to us to do... It's very legitimate, huh? But it seems to us that it does little favor to the idea of fighting folds and folds the speech of the extreme right. Because look, the speech of the extreme right or the speech of hate in general. Because look, it also seems to us that..., before I've mentioned questions that are very difficult and structural and that they have to do with legitimacy, normalization, and even institutionalization of certain speeches, but there are questions that we can't go through. We, in this chamber, as Members of this chamber, as Members of this chamber, since he is invited to reflect in the parliamentary sphere, have felt how he was invited to return to Xeres to a head of opposition. We felt as if it were given to the first policy of the State that came out of the closet publicly, it was said that it "gived cynicism, concretely with this expression. I don't know if someone else has actually used that expression. We've heard... well, we've heard, we've read how the use of the castle in a fragment of an intervention is attended to. Specifically, he said that he lost his catalanity for having made a fragment of an intervention in the castle. And it seems to us that these are glittering thoughts, that it is very good to identify the speeches of hatred and xenophobia and classism and racism and homophobia in the speeches of others, but that it should be very careful not to promote us, with our interventions, with our public demonstrations, even when they are outside the strictly parliamentary sphere, the appointment of target groups. These target groups are followed by those who follow Menas or by colonists, botiflers, "nosors or any other of the epithets we have been feeling. So, let's do it, let's propose to ourselves, seriously. Our parliamentary group has deep democratic convictions, we are part of the long and fruitful tradition of European democratic socialism, and we are willing to speak with absolutely everyone who has democratic convictions to put an end to these hate speech that leads to violence, that we do not want to make an open cry to the recipient of the message to commit violence and to be the cause, among others, of the homophobic palsies that we have seen in Valencia on very recent dates. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.159.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. Then, to fix the position of his parliamentary group, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, Mr Joan Garriga. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.160.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Good morning. By proposing this resolution for the commitment to a diverse and cohesive Catalonia of rights and freedoms they want to adopt a letter that sounds very, very good, but that has nothing to do with music. I'm going to allow myself to unravel this demonstration a little bit. They say, in the proposal, "commitment to a democratic Catalonia. And it is proposed by those of the anti-democratic cordon to VOX, which discriminates to 217,000 Catalans, even for a meeting of Health. Like VOX's can't get the virus. They also say in the resolution 'to ensure a Catalonia which is committed to its diversity. And it is said by those who fine for labeling only in Spanish. They talk about diversity, when their whole project has been based on ending Catalan plurality. In imposing a single way of being Catalan: hatred of Spain and the common language. They also talk about those who hate their political action. And it is said by those who openly hate Spain and claim that the Spaniards steal them. Look, ladies and gentlemen, for hating the experienced and allowed on TV3 as my colleague commented the other day, because from that public television it has been tolerated that an ex-CUP deputy justified that the candidates of VOX were stoned – stoned, stoned – in the face of the passivity of the presenter of the program Tot is soft, which seems to move everything but his chair. And Catalonia's collaborator Ràdio Jair Domínguez has encouraged the fight against VOX with a punch in the mouth. That's hate and that [[some applause]] You don't condemn him. To hate also the serious aggressions suffered by the candidates of VOX in the last Catalan elections: Vic, Vilafranca, Mataró, Barcelona and I do not want to follow because I think they already know all the Catalan geography that is that we kick and we will continue kicking from VOX to defend our ideas without complexes, with joy and with illusion, without fear of anything or anyone. Or the bricks of Podemos in Vallecas, which we also receive in our human figures. They also speak of racism and discriminate against the 217,000 Vox voters and manipulate, because defending that immigration has to be legal and orderly because it can be integrated is not racism, it is wanting to control immigration, and that every time they understand more people, and that is why every time we have more votes in Catalonia and the rest of Spain. Vox rejects racism – Vox rejects racism, because I made myself clear – like what separatists practice, for example. Heribert Barrera – my company also said: "The intellectual coefficient of whites in the United States is higher than that of blacks. Jordi Pujol: "Andalusian man is a little-made man, he is Spain's lowest social and spiritual value. Oriol Junqueras : « Catalans have more genetic proximity to French than to Spanish. Quim Torra: "They are beasts with human form– it refers to the Spaniards, to all of us–" there is a small patch in their DNA chain. Poor people. Joan Oliver, former director of TV3: « Spanish people are chorizos because they are Spanish. Jordi Puigneró : « Do you know the difference between a Spanish and a Mongol? A medal. And it's not an accompaniment, it's a drama, it's literally hate and racism. They also speak in this motion for a resolution on non-discrimination, and we say that for this reason no novels or proposals for a resolution, for this reason we already have our Constitution in its article 14. And it's funny that I'm talking about non-discrimination to those who stigmatize, identify, want to hide "no one Vox," that is, 217,000 Catalans. [[Greetings.]] Because, ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra's bench and of separatists, you do not want equality, you want to censor speeches that go against your consensus; you want to censor speeches for the defense of human life; you want to censor for the defense of marriage; you want to censor speeches for the recollection speeches to the family; you want to censor speeches for unity, equality for all Spaniards; you want to censor speeches for the defense of our Christian encounters – we will already present a PR so that we can be here the Moreneta and so we can work for all –; you also want to censor because no one can say that it is to control immigration, because this is ordered and can be integrated into our home; they want censorship, also, so that we can say, that it is a sense of discrimination, but it is sexual discrimination. You want to avoid these speeches and you won't, because we will continue to speak with our dignity. They want censorship mechanisms, they want to be Torquemadas of the 21st century – in Catalan, « Torcremades. And no, they won't shut us up. In the motion for a resolution, there are also a number of commemorative calendars for four very worthy collections, and they believe that they are small and small, such as this commission that they want to create today, that they cost us a lot of money to all Catalans, and that they are oblivious to other collections. I'll give them some examples, won't I? They could also integrate the autonomes, the women who have worked a lot and strength at home and not recognize themselves, the retirees, the notices, the unborn ones, which is also a drama – and here it is not remembered when the plenums begin – of pregnant women and "wounds which, poor, see this situation, and we are not extending our hands. We could also talk about desperate people who want to decide not to live any longer and who also need the recovery of everyone, we are also oblivious to them, or families in general. Don't these collections deserve one day? Don't you deserve a commission? Mirin, as you may suppose, we will vote against this motion for a resolution because it is unnecessary, and against, of course, creating a new committee, which is more expensive, huh? More tickets for the deputies we're stealing from the city. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Because to control and combat non-discrimination we already have the Commission of Justice and, of course, we have Article 14 of our Constitution, which I will remind you of, because some may have it forgotten, and with that we already have it enough to be able to protect against the various discriminations that can be committed to our esteemed Catalan region: "Spanish people are equal before the law without any discrimination on grounds of birth, race, sex, religion, opinion or any other personal or social condition or circumstance. To conclude, to say that we are with all people, we are for all Spaniards, not to collect people; we are for and defend all people – white, black, women, men, young, old – because the major collection – the major collection – is to talk about everything, and the major racism, its, is to collect people. Thank you very much, and good afternoon. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.161.0	Ignacio Martín Blanco, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.162.0	Yeah. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I recognize that I am faced with an intervention that is perhaps difficult because of the trifling, the handling of the issue, the overly treated and in a manic and simplistic way, often in our public debate, in many ways. I am not going to try to establish a manic discourse in which I say that some are extremely good and some are extremely bad, but it is true that it seems important to me, with these two motions for resolutions which we are debating in this part of the agenda today in Parliament, I think it is important to point out some things. I believe that in Catalonia there is no problem of institutional racism. I sincerely believe that Catalan society is an open society, a plural society, a diverse society, a society respectful of its own plurality; a society in which there are people of very diverse ideology who try to have a peaceful, respectful coexistence, a friendly coexistence with their neighbours, even with those who think radically different from them. I am convinced that in Catalan society there are friendships between people from the CUP and people from VOX, so to speak two parties that are extremely different. I believe that, in this regard, we must recover the humane treatment of all political forces and all their representatives. I understand that this can arouse hilarity in some. Honestly: I have friends, I have family who vote for separatist parties. You, separatists, represent a part of Catalonia's important citizenship, including my family and friends, exactly as the constitutionalist parties represent their family and friends. It is likely that even a party that you systematically target these days, such as VOX, also represents some of your family members, for which I suppose you also have some respect. Mrs Madaula says..., there are some who say « no; well, anyway. [[Widow's remorse.]] I..., everyone will have the relationships they have, but I believe that Catalan society is sufficiently diverse that we understand that such relationships exist. Good. I do not believe that Catalan society has a problem of institutional racism. I do believe that for many years now in Catalonia there has been an institutionalized and systematic problem of Hispanicophobia, in addition, in an absolutely banalized way, incomprehensiblely accepted by an important part of our fellow citizens, indeed, and above all by an important part of our political class or of our ruling class. Statements that have been quoted here earlier by Mr Garriga, as Mr Pujol has said, who ruled 23 years Catalonia over the Andalusian man. "This anarchic and humble man, the Andalusian immigrant, who has spent hundreds of years hungering and deprivation of all kinds, whose natural ignorance leads him to mental and spiritual misery and whose uprooting from a community sure of itself makes him an insignificant being, incapable of domination, of creation. If by numerical force he could master Catalan demography without having overcome his own perplexity he would destroy Catalonia. Fortunately Catalonia had between the years 2003 and 2010 a president whose work of government, between 2007 and 2010, whose work of government seems to me more than questionable, like Mr Montilla, but that disarticulated all that claim of racism – yes, racism – and Hispanicphobia against Andalusians. I keep telling you: Mr. Torra, the most recent former president we have had in Catalonia. "Spain has essentially been an exporting country of misery, materially and spiritually speaking. Everything that has been touched by the Spaniards has become a source of racial discrimination, social differences and underdevelopment. The motherland – said with all the irony by Mr Torra, who has a considerable comical view – "has always ended up devouring his children and left them the worst of the worst of the inheritances: a counter-made identity, a removed memory and mental suburbanization. Add Mr. Torra: "Now you look at your country – he refers to Catalonia, very legitimately, of course –" and you see the beasts again, but they are of another kind carrots, vipers, hyenas, beasts with human form, however, that distill hatred, a disturbed, nauseous hatred, as of dentures tarnishes with mold, against what the Catalan language represents. These statements, which are well known to all of you and which the European Parliament and the main parties of the European Parliament have declared xenophobic and racist, are unfortunately not an anecdote in Catalonia's political life. Let me read you some other pearls of supremacism, of nationalism, of hispanophobia that unfortunately has been normalized in the institutional life of Catalonia. Mr Carod-Rovira, when the terrorist band ETA in the early 1990s committed one of its lustful attacks on our land, Mr Carod-Rovira far from calling them simply « murderers, « bloodthirsty, « human spoils, which are those who are capable of killing for supposed ideas, said the following: « To see if at one time, apart from dialectics – by the way, so Spanish – of fists and pistols, you are able to understand it, told those who spoke with absolute respect and complicity, to the terrorists of ETA. He said to them: "The Basques are not Spanish, okay, but the Catalans neither, and with actions like this you do nothing but Spanishize Catalonia, you convert the Catalan Countries into enemy land and their speakers into hostile people, and we are not, you should know that. I would like to recall that Mr Carod-Rovira has been Vice-President of the Generalitat de Catalunya, no more or less: Vice-President of the Generalitat de Catalunya. By the way, in this sense, and without any acrid, really, without any acrid, I mean that Mr Pedret's speech seemed impeccable to me, it seemed to me a speech of height, a discourse of moral height and an discourse of intellectual height, but I think we all have to be able to be self-critical. He who became vice president of the Generalitat of Catalonia to Mr Carod-Rovira capable of saying such barbarities, was precisely the Party of Socialists of Catalonia. And I think that has normalized a speech that unfortunately in Catalan society has shut up – it has shut up. Hey, and I say it with all my heartache. I have, I insist, many friends, many family members who commune with the ideas of the separatist parties, and, of course, I deserve all the respect of the world, just like the voters of other parties, and in this case it seems that it plans, let's say, that sort of health cord that you want to impose on people who vote for VOX as well. I think it is important to recall some other statement, such as that of Mr Canadell, here present, former President of the Chamber of Barcelona. He said: "Spain is unemployment and death, Catalonia life and future. Mr. Puigneró, who said: "Do you know what the difference is between a Spaniard and a Mongol? A medal. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, it was the Olympics, whatever you want, but you can afford the jokes you want. Now I'll tell you about some other joke. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Artur Mas – Mr. Artur – Mr. Artur Mas... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Mr. President, you're bothering me a little bit that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.163.0	Quiet, and please. Leave... quiet, please. If not, then you can ask for the word for allusions, counselor. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.164.0	He'll get back a little bit of time, won't he? , President. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Rialles.]] Excuse me? Mr. Artur Mas, of whom some pretend to speak wonders as if he had been a great statesman, said the following: speaking of the linguistic immersion and in reference to some statements by Albert Rivera, told him that there were children of Salamanca, Valladolid, Burgos..., sorry, in this case of Seville, Malaga and Coruña, who there speak Spanish, indeed, but sometimes some are not understood. No more or less than Mr Mas, who happens to be a person supposedly, for some, still worthy of much respect. So what I'm saying to you is that if you really want to ask this parliamentary committee that you want to create about institutional racism to make you catharsis, to say: "Listen, we have really been insulting the rest of the Spaniards, the Andalusians, the extremists, the Galicians without any kind of clipping, without any type of tapucho, and against the practice of indifference of a substantial part – yes, and I say this with great regret – "of Catalan society and also of certain political parties, if you want to make a commission to make catharsis, to talk about all this, to talk about institutionalized Hispanicophobia from the institutions of the Generalitat, then welcome is that committee on institutional racism. I tell you the truth, I am convinced that there are voters from the CUP, Esquerra, Junts per Catalunya and the commons who would be willing to go to that committee, if it really were on all these issues. I want to tell you one thing, too, gentlemen of In Comú Pomera, gentlemen of the commons, gentlemen of Pomera... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And ladies, excuse me, huh? I would not like to fall into political error; ladies and gentlemen. And forgive me, Susana, I didn't see that you were in this case just ladies and Mr. Lucas Ferro. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm going to teach you a campaign, a campaign that took place in 2007 that was promoted by a candidate for Initiative per Catalunya, a party that will be familiar to you because it is integrated into your political formation: Mr.Suñé, I think his name was, and he was a Councillor of Torredembarra. The councilman of Torredembarra, in the early 2000s, a man with a lot of tradition in his party, did this campaign that I want you all to see. [[The orator shows the chamber a full.]] This campaign is neither of VOX nor of the Finnish far right, nor of the Flemish, nor of the German, nor of the German neo-Nazi party; no. This campaign was made by a councilman of Initiative per Catalunya Verds in 2006, 2007, a campaign... Susana, I don't know if it seems alarming to you [[Funnel veils]] or you think it's disgusting or even vomiting, nauseating. I don't know exactly what call you will deserve, but it says: « SOS, Extremadura needs you. 8 per cent of Catalan GDP is not enough. Appadrina an extremist child for a thousand euros a month. This, gentlemen, is Hispanicophobia; this, gentlemen, is institutional racism. Is this what you want to deal with in this committee? Go ahead, make sure, let's talk about it. Let's talk about it all. Let us talk about some things that you have also spoken about here: let us talk about the use of MENA as a political argument to fuel the low passions. Let's talk about it too, of course. Let's talk about everything. Let's talk about that will to confront citizens and oversize problems that are not the centrality of the situation in Catalonia, but let's do it from the wisdom and let's do it from a truly rational debate. We do not have to accept the premises of what you impose on us as what our public debate should be. Our public debate must be plural and diverse. And you will be obsessed with talking about all the beautiful things that VOX can say; many of them to me also seem abject, but it seems to me... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I can tell you, Mr Jové, some of them: for example, to me the announcement by the Community of Madrid on the MENA, oversized a problem which I think would have to be dealt with in a much more responsible way, also seems abject to me. I have no problem, Mr. Jové. The question of being able to speak freely, of being able to speak freely in this chamber, is that, is precisely what a citizen's deputy does. I speak freely about everything that seems abhorrent to me in our public debate. But what I will not tolerate is that we are required to accept premises for a public debate that is addicted to origin. That public debate has to be all-encompassing enough, realistic enough for us to really deal in a committee on institutional racism with everything that has been, which has given us public life in Catalonia these years. And I've seen things that have really been absolutely unacceptable in recent years in Catalonia. I believe that, unfortunately, a speech of hatred has been naturalized, a racist, xenophobic, Hispanic speech has been normalized by Catalan nationalism, and it turns out that now the parties characteristic or main of Catalan nationalism come here to impose a commission on institutional racism. Hey, tips I see I don't have for myself. Apply the story and then we can have a rational, sensible debate and even come to conclusions that we may even improve our society, improve our public debate, improve the democratic quality of our society, of Catalan society. But, of course, without starting from the basis of assumptions that are bluntly sectarian and bluntly manic. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.165.0	Next, representing the Grup Mixt, has the word Ms. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.166.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, today is Thursday, May 13th and the Civil Guard is anniversary: it is 177 years old, 177 years of service to all Spaniards [[some applause]] , work and surrender to guarantee the freedoms, rights and security of all. From the People's Party and especially from this rostrum, we want to show you all our appreciation, all our gratitude and above all to tell you that Catalonia is also your home and that we are very proud of the great work you do. And the truth is that this has been a coincidence, precisely that it coincided with the anniversary of the Civil Guard with the presentation of these proposals that brings us here, therefore, separatism and, well, its partners also of En Comú Puem. And it is a coincidence, but it is also a paradox, especially because of the content of these motions for resolutions. The separatist parties here in this text say that they want the commitment of a fully democratic Catalonia, that it is a guarantee of equal rights and freedoms for all those who live in Catalonia and who decide to undertake their vital project in Catalonia. And this is exactly where the paradox comes from. Just a few days ago, the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia had to force the Generalitat to vaccinate police and civilian guards because the Government refused to do so. For lack of vaccines? No, no, For lack of data, perhaps? Neither. For lack of decency. There was not a single objective criterion that prevented these agents from vaccination, and proof of that is that last Monday you got to work with vaccination, I insist, by the requirement of the TSJ. The great words and phrases remain to you in wonderful writing, the problem is that then you do not agree with what you do. I mean, they tell us here that they want a Catalonia with equal rights and freedoms for all, when it is you who deny those rights and those who trample those freedoms. And it is necessary to be very bold, but very bold, to come here to present these proposals and not to put itself not even colored, not even colored after, I insist, to have denied vaccination to an entire group solely for reasons of hatred. And I repeat Puigdemont's tweet, which, by the way, no one here has condemned, even though I specifically asked the Vergés Counsellor. I insist that we must be very bold, not to say anything else, it is not going to be that the Madam President reprove me again. By the way, Madam President, Laura Borràs, who left with her partner in line, Elsa Artadi, to storm and chant at the barracks of the Civil Guard : « Pim, pam, pum, which I did not have one left. But vaccination has nothing to do with hate motives or anything like that, of course not, of course not. I shall continue with the motions for resolutions, which are not wasteful. They also say here that political actors, among others, have been pioneers in finding great consensus to confront those who make hate their political action. I wonder if the signatories of these proposals are included here: Esquerra Republicana, Junts per Catalunya and the CUP, really, because it is because, honestly, I think it is a joke, I think it is a joke that you come here now as crusaders in the fight against hatred, after the barbarities that we have heard them. Some of them have already been explained here, but I want to repeat the ones because you have a hemerotheque you don't see. For example, Josep Sort, a candidate of Junts per Catalunya in the last elections to the Parliament of Catalonia, his partner and, as Mrs Madaula says, had to resign after saying such barbarity: "We will clean up Spanish, promise. Anna Erra, mayor of Vic, also by Junts per Catalunya, and current deputy also in this Chamber, delighted us – to say the least [[the speaker laughs]] – last parliamentary term, here in the parliamentary seat, talking about « native Catalans, and also asking that no Spanish will be spoken to those people who, either because of their physical appearance or because of their name, did not seem Catalan. That's Mrs. Erra. Clara Ponsatí, also MEP for Junts per Catalunya and also ex-counsellora, in the first wave of the pandemic, when Madrid was going through the worst, when many Spaniards had died because of the covid, tweeted: « From Madrid to heaven. Mrs. Ponsati. We also continue in that first wave of the pandemic, and Mr. Joan Canadell, Member of Parliament today, also from Junts per Catalunya, told us that "Spain is unemployment and death and Catalonia life and future, and does so with his head reaffirming it. It is indeed a real shame, Mr Canadell, a shame. And I think that Junts per Catalunya should at least raise this proposal that it brings here today, because it is necessary to be cynical to bring this motion for a resolution, I insist, and not to put itself or red. That is, to say that Spain is unemployment and death or boasting of the dead in a certain territory, is that not hatred, gentlemen of Junts per Catalunya? Isn't that hate? To say or promise to clean up Spanish, isn't that hate, gentlemen of Junts per Catalunya? Not to mention, of course, the big hits of the recent President of the Generalitat, Mr. Torra. Some of them have already been told here by other groups: the famous episode of the « mad beasts we all know, but it is that it has so many more, Mr. Torra, because it can be seen that when he began to write, he was inspired, man, and gave free rein to his passions. And he was telling us, for example, things like this: "Spain has essentially been an exporting country of misery materially and spiritually speaking. The Spaniards only know how to spoil. Here there are people who have said enough and each in their own way fight for ideas and a country. People who have already forgotten to look south and look north again, "where people are clean, noble, free and cultured. Mr. Torra said that in the north people are clean. I don't know what you should think of the people of the south, Mr. Torra, although I can imagine. And this also reminds me of another phrase that we have also heard from Mr Jordi Pujol, the father of the homeland, where he said: "Andalusian man is not a coherent fact, he is an anarchical man, he is a destroyed man, he is generally a little made man, he is a man who has been starving for hundreds of years and who lives in a state of ignorance and cultural, mental and spiritual misery. He is an uprooted man, unable to have a somewhat broad sense of the community. This is hate, gentlemen of Junts per Catalunya, it's hate in capitals. This is to focus a political project on division and confrontation, and to do so, above all, from the institutions. This is playing a very dangerous game that you have been playing for over thirty years, and these motions for resolutions here today are a real shame. And if not, if you are so committed to what you put in these motions for resolutions, start today by condemning all these barbarities that I have just read to you now and that have come out of the mouth of your public offices. If you really want us to believe something of what you put in these motions for resolutions, start condemning those savages. Republican Left doesn't stand back either. I've focused on Junts per Catalunya, but you're also quite an expert on cynicism. They seem to compete with the rest of separatism as well. It's not the only thing they compete in. Heribert Barrera, founder of Esquerra Republicana, said: "One of the propagandas of multiculturalism is that mixing is an enrichment. Why? What do we gain by having so many sevillanas dance in Catalonia right now? Nothing. We don't even have mosques here and there's more and more Muslims. I would like a Catalonia like that of the Republic, without immigrants, since immigration is the main threat of Catalonia. And here comes Esquerra Republicana today to propose to us a commission on institutional and structural racism of Catalonia, with Mr Junqueras out there saying that Catalans have more genetic proximity to French than to Spanish. Junqueras, the geneticist, come on, that Mendel by his side was an amateur. Mrs Bassa, let's also remember, former Consul of the Republican Left – so much so that you get your hands on the MENA theme, etc. – I remember that in parliamentary office she told us that the children of the tail came from Andalusia. Mrs. Bassa. It's just that you're not here to teach any lessons. If you really want to talk about racism and you want to make a serious commission, for we do it, but all racism, because there is no good racism and bad racism. And I insist: start by condemning it. And it seems to me that with the one that's falling there out bringing according to what kind of proposals here, and besides with this level of hypocrisy, it seems pretty irresponsible to me. The gentlemen of the CUP, who also sign these proposals, go to TV3 to say so joyfully that Vox must be erased from the streets in stone. Mrs Mireia Boya, former Member of the CUP as well. Joan Coma, councillor of the CUP in Vic, encouraging to cough in the face of the military to leave Catalonia, or her partner in the ranks, Mrs. Mireia Vehí, deputy of the CUP in the Congress of Deputies – who gives you the grin of Spain but then to charge the small one, there yes – also criticizing those, according to her, walks that the military were giving fear for Catalonia, when what they were doing was disinfecting residences and setting up field hospitals in the midst of a pandemic, which by the way, the Government allowed itself the luxury of rejecting when there were so many Catalans who were alone in their homes, and some died alone in their homes because you allowed yourself the luxury of rejecting those field hospitals. Not a lesson will you give us, not a single lesson. Hatred, racism, discrimination, threats, violence... are fought, first, not practicing the, and second, when they occur, denouncing the, and rejecting the always, in any case, without nuances. Do you really believe that after such barbarities as you have said here you can come as if nothing had happened at all? Who come here to make the worthy with these motions for resolutions while, for example, at night the so-called Union of Students of the Catalan Countries go to our headquarters to threaten us there, to paint the seats with threats, and you, the crusaders against hatred, have not said nor did you say – that this was last week – nor have you said, absolutely nothing. Separatism has zero legitimacy to talk about this issue, because it is you who block rights and those who trample on freedoms. It is you who are against precisely diversity, plurality, and it is you who have split Catalan society into two. Zero legitimacy to talk about these issues. Look, these motions for resolutions call for a compromise for a diverse and cohesive Catalonia of rights and freedoms. I have been fighting for that Catalonia for many years, a Catalonia in which you can feel Catalan, but also Spanish, without anyone calling you « facha. A Catalonia in which we all have the same rights and freedoms, let us think what we think. A Catalonia where you don't miss or be treated as a second-rate Catalan, simply by coming from other parts of Spain or by not commulgating with separatism. In short, a Catalonia of free and equal citizens, a plural Catalonia, but also cohesive. That is what I have been defending for years, and of course also my parliamentary group. The day you really want a Catalonia like this, you'll stop fooling all Catalans, fighting without forming a government for two months, watching who distributes TV3, watching who stays Catalonia Ràdio and making documents about the democratic embat and confronting it. Really, if you want to fight hate and discrimination, start by setting an example, because you leave so much to be desired. And all this stuff they've presented here is a bunch of hypocrisy that, of course, they're not gonna find us in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.167.0	Yes, Counselor Puignero, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.168.0	For direct allusions of two Members...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.169.0	Yes, forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.170.0	...is Article 87...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.171.0	Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.172.0	So, let's see. First of all, let's learn from people who tell us, to us, a few. But in any case, to clarify this tweet that you mentioned of the year 2012 with motiu of the Olympics in which there was an imposed campaign to the Spanish State that said: "I am Spanish, what do you want me to win you? And at that moment Mongòlia had just won a medal for Spain in judo and had the first gold medal and she was posing for the medaller, and I did a tweet on which she simply ratified this fact, which a Mongolo was posing for a Spaniard in the medaller. If you think this should be raised to this category, then listen, continue with this hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.173.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]] Yes, Mr. Martín Blanco, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.174.0	Obviously, for allusions as well.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.175.0	It is you who has greeted the councillor and the councillor has answered him by talking about you, about the statement you made in the course of his intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.176.0	Go, I think it would be just that I could also explain these allusions but go...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.177.0	He has responded to his...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.178.0	...if you think it's fairer this way of running the presidency, all of you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.179.0	Thirty-seconds, Mr. Martin White.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.180.0	Look, Mr. Puignero, I told you one of the sentences that you put down, but I may have left you the hardest, still. Maybe I'll tell him and I don't know if he'll drop his face of shame in front of this chamber: "A Spanish intellectual, speaking of federalism, is like an alcoholic, abusive, cryin' husband: I'll change! The day the woman is packing. I left this to myself because it seemed to me that saying it in your parliament was even a perverse thing. I'm telling you – since you're asking me for a correction – so I'm telling you other things that you said. I understand it's embarrassing to say a few things, but next day don't tell them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.181.0	Why ask me the word, Mr. Canadell?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.182.0	It seems to me to be Article 87, for allusions. Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.183.0	Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.184.0	Well, I would first like to thank Mr. Ignacio Martín Blanco, Mrs. Roldán, Mr. Ferro, on the other day a Mr. Vox..., who allow me, in his parliamentary office, to explain some of the maulades to which they refer. I guess they're hanging around all day. But as long as I'm given this opportunity, we'll do it, huh? You don't have one that says that, do you? Spanish is unemployment and death. I said yes, Mrs. Roldán, that I wrote it, of course I wrote it, I would just miss it. Now, you've got to hear what that puddle was doing. That ugly pile refers to a researcher's study, I think it was North America, which compared the effect of the pandemic between Greece and Spain. April 22nd, I've reviewed it now, it's not that I'm aware of memory. April 22nd it turns out that Spain had sometimes more dead – obviously in proportion to the population – that Greece had to close fifteen days later – and look at you, Mr. Illa – not the one that closed Greece. That was the result of my Twitter comment. And why did he connect with Greece? Because it turns out that Greece is the... it was, it was the worst country in Europe at that time. And I said, "This pandemic will lead us to be even worse than Greece in the past. Actually, time has given me reason. Today – today – Spain is the worst country in Europe. This should embarrass you, because we are here to help reduce the weather, among other things. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.185.0	Mr. Canadell, you should be done, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.186.0	So today, for now, I'm leaving it here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.187.0	Thank you. Mrs. Reguant, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.188.0	Article 87, by reference to allusions. Our parliamentary group and two ex-parliaments from this chamber and a former registrar. Mrs Roldán, yes, I say to you, from the CUP diem: "Outside the army of the Catalan Countries, with the high head and the times that it is necessary. [[Greetings.]] And enjoy it. We have just received the information that they want to close the gates of the Ciutadella Park because the students want to direct to Parliament. We ask you to keep the park, and defend and guarantee the students' right of demonstration right now in Barcelona.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.189.0	Mrs. Paying, this has already been passed on to us and I have passed on this precise indication to the advisor Sámper so he has made it happen to me, and so it will be. I too take the word for allusions, for Article 87. Mrs Roldán, Congresswoman Elsa Artadi and myself have mentioned things we have never said before. So, no, you couldn't see this because it never happened. I remind you that you can't defame, you can't make false accusations like you've already made. I've already warned her in another batch, and I'm going back to do it now. And, besides, I remind you that there is a national poet who is said to be Salvador Espriu, and it would be good to read it, because the words of President Torra, although you have read them in the castle, correspond to the poem Asaig de cantic in the temple, of, as I say, Salvador Espriu, who said: "Oh that I am tired of my/ my coward, old, so saved earth, / and how I would like to lengthen myself, / and go north there, / it is said that the people are net, / noble, culture, free, rich, / awakened and happy. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]] Then, after the interventions, there is a final turn of one of the representatives of the proposing groups, a two-minute turn, which will use the word Jessica González. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.190.0	We thank all the groups for the interventions they have made. Let's start by saying that we accept item 2 of the SCP, which we consider to be even broader; that of the Rules we do not accept. And a pair of acclaims, just, and point out, stop the interventions that have been made. First of all, it's not the same extreme right as the extreme left; it's not the same democrats as anti-democratic; it's not the same reducing rights as expanding rights. Precisely the statements... and it's funny, isn't it? White people say that there is no institutional racism. Precisely statements that speak of many examples in which you draw or draw from examples of racism to different levels that you need to talk about institutional racism, precisely because you don't exclude us from anyone: racism is a system, it's not a moral issue to be-to-be or not to be-to-be. So... and if we start drawing cards here, I could also talk about the colonization of America's Llatina, and I know it wasn't an orderly or legal emigration. So, I don't think that's what this is about. I'm sorry, but I've informed myself, and racism commissions don't incur any expense. I know that maybe there are people who make him illusory... I don't know, he's been deluded with a more diet, but in this case a new commission is not a new expense, but... It's here. We reaffirm ourselves, the supporting groups. Thank you for your appreciation. They're not enough for the sister to talk about, especially City and People's Party, because that's what we have to fight between all of us. All the way, here we will be in Comú Pode, Together for Catalonia, Republican Left and the CUP defending a wider parliament in rights and diversity for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.191.0	Finally, then, the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution on the compromise for a different and cohesive Catalonia of rights and freedoms. Yes, Mrs. Roldán, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.192.0	President, for a separate vote on point 2 and point 6, letter b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.193.0	Okay, point 2, which was also requested by the Socialists and Forward Units Group and... [[Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Martín Blanco?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.194.0	Yes, Madam President, we too have asked for a separate vote on points 2 and 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.195.0	Five?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.196.0	Yeah, point five. I of 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.197.0	I 6.b, hi, did you tell me, Mrs. Roldán? [[Pause.]] Okay. So then we will vote on the text that has been indicated by the four proposed parliamentary groups. We shall therefore vote in the first place on point 2 of the motion for a resolution. The vote begins. Perfect. They voted on point 2: 82 votes in favour, 14 votes against, 32 abstentions. We will now vote on point 5. The vote begins. We have 116 votes in favour, 17 votes against and no abstentions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They tell me we didn't make the bell to play the vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The beech now. [[Seeing the background and pause.]] Mr. Swordler tells me that he was not in the room and that he had not heard the bell. It's not that I didn't hear it, it's that we didn't sound it. Therefore, we should repeat the vote, because there has been no mistake by Mr Swordler. And, therefore, we shall repeat the vote. We're going back to voting, so point two. The vote begins. One vote in favour, 20 votes against and 33 abstentions. Then we vote on point 5. The vote begins. Cent_disset votes in favour, 11 votes against and 6 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 6.b. The vote begins. One hundred and twenty votes in favour, 14 votes against and no abstentions. We shall now vote on the rest of the motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 123 votes to 11, with zero abstentions. [[Greetings.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for a resolution on the creation of a study committee on institutional and structural racism in Catalonia. The vote begins. This proposal was adopted by 114 votes to 14, with 6 abstentions. Now we suspend the session, we have accumulated a delay; we will resume it at four o'clock in the afternoon. However, I have to say that there is now the constitution of the Permanent Council; the deputies who are part of the group room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.198.0	Well, very late. Let's resume the session with the fifth point of the order of the day. [[Comparisons]] [[350-00001/13, 350-00002/13 and 350-00003/13]] It is the appearance of the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, and Councillor of Economy and History before the Plenary, to inform about the current economic, health and social situation and the proposed European fund. Before starting with the Vice-President's appearance, I would like to remind you that this point will be co-substantiated with items 6 and 7 of the order of the day, as agreed at the later meeting of the Spokesman. In the first place, therefore, has the words of the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, Mr Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.199.0	Many thanks, very honorable President of Parliament. Counselors, advisors, deputies and deputies, very late. I compare before the Ple de la Cambra to give answer to the requests made by various parliamentary groups on the questions related to the health, economic and social crisis that Catalonia saw, derived from the pandemic of covid-19, its consequences and how the government acted to make it a front. I would like to thank, from the outset, that the three requests approved have been accepted jointly. I think it was obvious that the three requests were, in a certain way, related to a theme that has unfortunately been more than a year ago focusing on the efforts of the Government of Catalonia and all the governments of the world. And it's been more than a year since the arrival of the pandemic, the covid-19, has turned our lives, our social rhythm, our family economies and that of many businesses. The salvation of the people who have suffered from the disease and of those who are being screened. A pandemic that has already caused our home more than 22,046 deaths since March of last year. Today, thanks to the extremely responsible attitude of the citizenry, to the acceleration of the rhythm of the vaccination process and to the measures taken by the health authorities, epidemiological data are showing a better progressive evolution of the pandemic. We said it and we repeated it, Catalonia was and is prepared for massive vaccination of the population. And we said, that we were prepared, and that we were just missing the cows. When they have started to arrive at a sufficient rate, the speed of vaccination has been accelerating to exceed 3_million doses administered. Thanks to this and to the civic commitment of the citizenry, Catalonia has recorded this week a positivity in antiquity tests under 5_per_cent. A sifra that wasn't seen from ugly months. This decrease is also confirmed in the names of confirmed cases, the percentage of positivity of PCR tests and the number of persons admitted to the hospital. Today, the average daily count is 1,100 and the Rt is 0.84. The incidence rate of the last seven days is 0.65, when compared to the last fourteen days. Therefore, a remarkable evolution. This week, the risk of a rebound has been set by two-cents. So, we're good. And although we can't download the guard for an instant, we can say that the evolution is positive. But if we raise our eyes and look at the world's conjunction, we will see that we currently find ourselves at one of the worst moments at the planetary level of the cove-19, with the second one on India, which is having a devastating mortality. As with the Government, they are aware that this is a global challenge and that until we are all saved, no one will be saved, we have also responded to the emergency call of the Government of India, adding to the initiative led by the Vicente Ferrer and Open Arms Foundation, to send a first flight with sanitary material to mitigate the lack of oxygen and other sanitary materials. Don't forget it, then. It is a global pandemic, requiring solidarity and compromise from all. Until the pandemic is controlled worldwide, it will not be over. And even though we are optimistic about Catalonia's figures today, we must not forget that today we have 1,227 people admitted to Catalan hospitals, because of covid-19, and intensive care units 410. Given that they're straining our health care system. Throughout this year, the health system has lived and is living a major challenge, which has been surpassed by effort, sacrifice and public service of all professionals and health professionals. Without the delivery and dedication of staff from primary care centres and hospitals, the impact of the health crisis has been much worse. On behalf of the Government, and I would like to say, on behalf of the whole country, I thank you again sincerely for being able to count on the commitment of health professionals at all times. And at this point, I would like to make a special point to the collection of nurses, true tip of the vaccination process, but also a tip of the proper public health system. Precisely yesterday, May 12, was World Day of Nursing. It is always relevant to recognize the great task they make, but now, without their professionalism and diligence, we cannot count on such effective mass vaccination operations. As I said, 3,323,248 doses have already been administered, with data from this morning. Of these, 2,300,201 are people with the first dose. 1,023,047 people with the second dose. With the full schedule already exceeds the million Catalans and Catalans, 1,085,751 Catalans and Catalans who have been vaccinated with the full schedule. He's come back to remember how many cows he's run. For the first time, the 400,000 doses administered over a week have been exceeded. According to estimates by the Health Department, by mid-June, 80 per cent of those age groups who are more likely to end up with ICUs will be vaccinated if they are infected with covid-19. That's, like, 50-year-olds. And here I want to insist on the need that we have transferred to the Government of the State, to end the administration of the second dose, as has been repeatedly requested. If the government of the state came to wait eight weeks for the second dose of the vaccine, we could accelerate much more this first protection that amounts to the first dose, and reach 5_million protected people against covid-19 on July 15th, according to the commitments we have at the sub-administration. We'll have all the people who are older than 30 years protected with a dose at least. And the 60-year-old majors with a full schedule. Whenever, obviously, it is pleased with the compromise in the reception rhythm of the cows planned today. As long as the vaccination campaign is as fast as possible, the Department of Health has set aside a whole network of vaccination points distributed throughout the region of Catalonia; both massive vaccination points, such as the Palau d'Esports de Catalunya to the city of Tarragona, the Fira de Montjuïc to the city of Barcelona, the Poliesportiu de la Seu d'Urgell, the Palau Firal de Girona, the Eleventh Palace of September of Lleida, or the Firal Palace of Tortosa, as intermediate points of mass vaccination, with lower vaccination capacity, but which will facilitate access to all citizens. The vaccine works. That's why I encourage everyone to pose for nothing. This good development has allowed us to relax the restrictive measures of mobility. And in the future it will also allow us to recover more quickly the rhythm of social interactions that we had in the pre-pandemic era. Despite this optimism, it is still essential that we maintain some restrictions and continue to ask the citizenry that I act with caution. We don't forget, the alarm's over, but the pandemic's not over. The cows have arrived, but the cove hasn't left yet. It is important, therefore, to continue with the protection measures and to continue to make population cracks like those that have later taken place in Toutnys, in Sant Hilari Sacalm or in Girona, in order to quickly identify any possible chain of community infection and to prevent the outbreaks from dying out quickly. As I said, the effort of the healthcare staff has been and is national. That is why it is absolutely necessary for our public health system to have every effort and every resource possible, to have every effort and every resource possible to improve its services, to equip it with tools to satisfy the work of health professionals and to give citizens a greater attention. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the Government has made a great effort in this sense, which in the last few months has been concrete with a wide list of activities throughout the territory. And just as a synthesis, I will list some of the actions aimed at strengthening the teams of health professionals and the infrastructures of this system, both in the field of primary care and in the hospital environment. In the last weeks: 16 of February, the multipurpose space dedicated to the care of covid-19 patients of the Vall University Hospital of Hebron, fifty-six beds of acute and thirty-two of critical and semi-critical patients is set aside. Fifteen of April, the new multipurpose space comes into operation at the Terrassa Hospital, located next to the emergency service, which counts with twenty-seen beds equipped to attend urgent and critical patient. On the eve of April, the new multipurpose hospital space is inaugurated at Sant Joan Despí, at the Moisès Broggi, which allows to install fifty-six beds of critical and semi-critical affected by covid-19. April 20th, works of expansion and reform of the Josep Torner Primary Care Center of Malgrat de Mar are tendered. Twenty-second of April, it is the follow-up commission for the expansion and modernization project of the Hospital de Tortosa, Verge de la Cinta. Five May, the Centre d'Ergências d'Atenço Primària del Maresme, is inaugurated in Mataró, a month after the beginning of the work and with an investment of 1.2 million euros. Five May, the drafting of the basic and executed project has been awarded for the construction of the new Olot-2 Primary Care Center, a center that will allow to replace the current installations of the Olot Nord consultant. All this from the 14th of February, from the election celebration date. We wear more than a year and make a huge effort to strengthen all the infrastructures of the health system. An effort that hasn't stopped these weeks, despite beginning to clear the end of the pandemic. Because the health system doesn't just need a conjunctural reinforcement caused by the pandemic. It needs structural reinforcement. We've reinforced the infrastructure, yes. And we've also incorporated professional ones to improve the service. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the primary care system has incorporated 3,258 more professionals, reaching a conjunction of 27,000 professionals in primary care, in relation to measures taken to curb and control the pandemic. As they all know, last May 9th ended the state of alarm and also with this end it was placed with various restrictions in the field of mobility, such as night mobility, and certainly activities, such as the rise of the measures that now, today, allow the continuous opening of the restoration until eleven o'clock in the night – yes, on the same conditions as until now for what it does abroad – as well as the opening of the amusement parks that were closed from the end of the summer. But like I said, we remember the alarm's over, but not the pandemic. That's why we keep a whole series of restrictions in areas of mobility, social activities, work, restoration, culture or sport. And we can cheer them up as you continue to advance the vaccination, it's solid, and so we go down all the pandemic-incidence indicators. I would also like to make a special mention of the sector of the night oci, which, in total since last August, has been suspected of its activity, and in some cases, partially, since more than a year ago. Aware that it is one of the sectors that is most severely affected by the consequences of the health emergency, the Department of Internal Affairs has been working on a sectoral plan for the recovery of activities linked to the night shift and was approved for the Process yesterday. The good evolution of epidemiological and vaccination data should not cause us to forget the health emergency that led us to experience one of the most intense periods of economic crisis in the past century. We are beginning to overcome the health crisis, but much work remains to be done to overcome the social and economic crisis caused by the covid-19. Globally, there has been a historical fall in activity. It was very intense in the case of Catalonia, where the gross domestic product fell back, the year 2020, an 11.5_per_cent, 4.9 percentage points of backsliding per euro area. These differences respect the euro area in the first place because of the epidemiological evolution, which has been different, more intense in Catalonia during 2020, but also in the differences in the productive structure. The major impact of the pandemic required more stringent containment measures, limiting mobility and activity. In some cases, it may also be determined..., it should be noted that it has also been determined that Catalonia has a higher proportion of the activities that are most exposed – economic activities, that is – to social interaction, and in particular the importance of international tourism, which 2020 has reduced by 80_per_cent. The most recent economic information indicates a gradual recovery of activity, especially from the second half of March, when mobility restrictions were temporarily relaxed. The relaxation of restrictions has also translated into a greater dynamism in consumption. There are also improvements in the labour market. If the affiliation to March was kept the same as the fever, almost the same, the number of people in ERTO was reduced by a little more than 33,000 people; the recorded event decreased for the first time since September, and the new contracts increased by 15.5_per_cent respect the fever, especially the indefinite contracts. For its part, the external sector – imports and exports – also shows positive signs. On February, goods exports recover the positive trend, with an increase of 6.4_per_cent, and goods imports continue to show annual variation taxes each time minus negative. Thus, the situation of the Catalan economy, which was well in the year 2021, indicates that it is, therefore, leading to a gradual but uneven recovery and with uncertainty at the time. Still, vaccination and stimulus plans to reactivate the economy invite optimism, always moderate, and have improved expectations of advancing and consolidating economic recovery in the second half of 2021. The forecasts of the Catalan economy prepared by the Department of Vice-Presidency, Economy and History assign for 2021 an increase of the 6_percent of the gross domestic product. This rebound is in line with 2020, with a partial recovery of domestic demand as well as the rebalancing of external demand, with a positive contribution of 0.3 points. The improvement in domestic demand reflects the partial recovery of the consumption of lllars, in which an increase of 7.4_per_cent is expected, and also of the reversal, with an advance of 7.5_per_cent forecast this year. The reactivation of the consumption of lllars will be very linked to the improvement of confidence in the economic and health situation, in particular to the advance of vaccination, and also to the relaxation that this advance of vaccination allows for social distancing measures. The recovery of the investment will depend on large sections that continue to reduce the uncertainty, still high, and the degree of deterioration in the financial position of the enterprises and the pace of implementation of the European recovery plan. The forecasts on the 2021 labor market point, for a band, to an intense recovery of the hours worked, with an increase forecast of 8.1_per_cent, and a more gradual recovery of the full-time occupation, of 4.4_per_cent. The variation, therefore, in which it refers to the occupation, is contained, as it is expected that a good part of the increase in hours worked will come from the reincorporation of the workers affected by ERTO and for the recovery of the middle day. This dynamic, together with the increase in the active population, leads to a moderate increase in the rate up to 13,3_per_cent predicted, even though we are now at 12,9. Forecasts for 2022 suggest a more moderate increase in working hours and full-time equivalent employment of 5.7 and 3.3_per_cent, respectively. Therefore, between 2021 and 2022 it would recover 80_percent of the equivalent occupation that we lost 2020. The consolidation of the recovery during 2022 would allow a decrease in the rate of atur, to be a little over the 12_per_cent, but a very low rate that was expected when the crisis of the covid-19 erupted and to extend from the 23_per_cent rate of atur that we suffered in the great recession of the 2008 crisis. The most recent data indicate that employment increased slightly in Catalonia in the first quarter of 2021 by 33,000 people. In terms of year-on-year, the occupation moderates its fall– now it only reduces by 2.2_per_cent–, but it still feels lower than the values we had before the pandemic– by 3_per_cent per suba. The number of hours worked also widens its descent; at the end of the year 2020, it respects at the end of 2019, the number of hours worked for Catalan workers had been reduced by 7.3_per_cent, but the first quarter of this year, it respects a year ago, only 0.4_per_cent. The name of ERTO workers in Catalonia drops slightly in March 2021– at these times we have 157,873 people in ERTO, at the end of March– and is located in the lowest xifra since September. The coverage of ERTO, measured as the name of ERTO workers over the total number of affiliates, excluding ERTO workers and local workers, is located in a 5.7_per_cent of the total number of ERTO workers. And the atur rate, as I said, has fallen to 12,9_per_cent– and we came from 13,9_per_cent of the end of 2020. In any case, the rise in the interest rate, as I said, is more limited in this crisis than in the previous financial crisis: Catalonia is situated in 12.9_per_cent, the interest rate; the Spanish state, the average is 16_per_cent, and the euro area, an 8.1_per_cent. In this sense, I have no doubt that the impact of the pandemic of covid-19 has been much more negative than it has been for the combination of measures that the various public administrations have brought to an end for the combination of families, workers, local people and businesses in our country. We have not only opened calls for grants for direct aid to the most affected areas of the economy for the restrictive measures of mobility and activity, but we have taken measures to tax and finance also with the aim of getting liquidity, making money available to citizens and businesses. Catalonia has destined, from the beginning of the pandemic..., the Generalitat de Catalunya has destined, from the beginning of the pandemic, aid to economic sectors of 230 euros per inhabitant; the middle of the autonomous communities, eighty_euros. That means it's been three times more. 49,7_percent of the economic aid provided by the State by the Autonomous Communities has been completed by the Generalitat de Catalunya; one euro, almost 1,800_million euros of 3,600_million euros in total. Therefore, the Government of Catalonia, and therefore the citizens of Catalonia, because this is with the public assumption, is making a great effort to help the sectors most affected by the pandemic to overcome the months of restrictions and downsizing of activity. Last week, the Government authorized a transfer of 2.5_million euros from the extraordinary funds to the Trade, Crafts and Fashion Consortium of the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge, for a new line of help, in this case, to attractions and restoration services that are fire-proof and closed for restrictions to deal with the covid-19. This new line is the second that in this sector is set in march, then, therefore, that we have already set in march, as I said, the first at the end of disembarkation. This year's generation, the government set up a fund of €618 million to finance a package of aid that I support the most affected collection for the covid-19 during the first quarter of the year. A plan of assistance to supplement the ERTO of those persons with a lower income than the Catalan minimum wage and adjusted to the time of the ERTO situation, granted to social workers, was integrated into this fund. In this sense, in order to ensure the implementation and management of these complementary subsidies linked to ERTO, but also to maintain and improve the support to self-employed workers and to activate the orientation and the credible and complementary training that facilitates the adaptation of workers to the professional environment in the current context, this same week a temporary programme has been created to incorporate twenty-four functions distributed in the Public Employment Service of Catalonia, the Catalan Continuous Training Consortium and the General Directorate of Labour Relations to accelerate these training programs. In this line, and in relation to the direct aid that the Government of the State has put into effect, from the government is working to expand the sectors of economic activities that the Spanish Government initially defined, from the aids that, therefore, it defined, that they were published by royal decree, and from which we have signed the agreement, because we want them to reach the sectors most affected by the pandemic. Whatever it is, we'll just do it with the social dialogue. We want you to be quick, seeking the most consent with economic and social agents. And this very morning, while there was this plenary of Parliament, and some of the Members were asking about this question, the government was meeting with social workers precisely because we want to do it from the concertation, from the meeting, from the agreement. On the other hand, now that it coincides, therefore, this time with the income declaration campaign, I would like to remind you that at the end of last year the Government we approved a deduction for those who have more than one payer and this year are obliged to make the income declaration; people who will have been in ERTO and who, claiming the same or less than the one who entered 2019, because of having two payers, are obliged to present the income this 2020, with a possible penalty, in terms, therefore, to have a positive result to enter the public three. That's why we made a deduction, because no one is negatively affected, and especially the people who are in a precarious work situation. It's important..., and I take advantage of, therefore, this charm to remind all the workers who find themselves in this situation that they have it available in the income declaration programmer, and it's important that they clearly mark it in their statement, since the Spanish tax agency, the Spanish tax agency, does not take into account the offices at the disposal of all employees and employees. And I want to remind you that this deduction is due to the assumption of the Generality. And it has not only affected workers, self-employed and entrepreneurs; the consequences of the pandemic have also affected with intensity social collectivities that already suffer from a major vulnerability: the great people, the young, the whole world, also, for what it does to citizens, to the women of this country and to the people who migrate. For what he does to young people. The young man in our country has seen how the pandemic has closed many doors to them, made access to a stable job place more difficult, made his situation more precarious, made it even more difficult to carry out his personal emancipation and constrained the vitality of one of the most dynamic life stages. For this reason, last week, the Government decided to allocate EUR 16 million for the next two years to young people in practical employment within the framework of the Youth Guarantee Programme. This measure will allow about 1,500 young people to be incorporated into the world of work so as to improve their employability with the acquisition of skills derived from day-to-day practice. In this way we will strengthen their opportunities to integrate into the labour market in a stable and lasting way. One of the other collections that has suffered most from the consequences of covid-19 is our great people, who have taken away the worst consequences, not only from the sanitary point of view, but also from the point of view of the social wing. With vaccination the situation has been stabilized, especially at the residences. Still, we must continue to make efforts to improve the salvation of our great people and guarantee the rights of the citizenry based on residential services. For this reason, this very week, this past Tuesday, the Government has allocated EUR 14.6 million to strengthen the staff of residents of large people and people with disabilities, in order to be able to attend to the needs arising from the pandemic. And another of the negative consequences of the pandemic, perhaps the least visible, but not least worrying, is the damage caused to emotional well-being, to the mental salvation of many citizens and citizens, and which forces public administrations to pay attention also to what we have called an emotional crisis. Just because an idea is coming up, 2020 recorded in Catalonia an increase of 127_percent of anxiety disorders and an increase of 33_percent of depression cases and other mental disorders. Attentions not face-to-face girls by psychologists through 061 Salut Respon came to record peaks of more than 6,400 monthly tricks. Of these, 13_per_cent were allocated to primary care for their follow-up, 13_per_cent to centres specializing in mental health and 3.5_per_cent required the mobilization of a resource, such as sending a meth or an ambulance to the home. This increase in the demand for emotional support, for attention in the field of the salvation of the citizens, has caused that from this month of May the System of Medical Emergencies has set aside a new model of emotional attention, with a team of psychologists likely to be distributed throughout the Catalan territory. We are talking about a service that incorporates professional new people who will perform face-to-face and not face-to-face attention to the citizen. And he will also perform tasks of attention to professionals of emergencies and of the public health network, which we also want to vet for the mental salvation of those who care for us. There are many emergencies that governments have to deal with in a pandemic situation in the health, economic, social and emotional fields. And every one of the councillors and councillors of this government has devoted all their efforts and attention to giving it an answer with the tools currently available to the government of Catalonia. We haven't rested for a moment to respond to the multiple challenges that have raised us as a society the pandemic of the covid-19. But at the side of these challenges there are also opportunities that we can't take away. And the main one is that it offers us the European Union with the mechanism of recovery and resilience, the Next Generation fund. An opportunity we can't miss. We must therefore look at the recovery phase, making available to the Catalan economy and society all the resources we have in the abst. And in this sense I want to remember the task for the government; not for this government in function only, but for the government that began in the dotzene legislature. On July 21, 2020, the Government of the Generalitat approved the Pla for economic recovery and social protection, prepared for the commission known as Coreco's acronym. On the same day as we approved this plan, European leaders finally reached a historic agreement on the European Union's 2021-2027 Multiannual Finance Mark and the Next Generation EU Recovery Instrument. These two European instruments mobilise a total of EUR 1.8 billion. To deploy the Pla for economic recovery and social protection and to maximize the uptake of European resources, the Government created the 6th of October after the Committee Assassador Catalunya Next Generation EU. Thanks to his work, the Government presented on February 2, 2021 the report « Next Generation Catalonia, a document released for Coreco, which contained the provisional proposal of Catalan projects candidates to obtain resources from the Next Generation fund. The governments, therefore, have the duty to support the management of the health emergency and the maintenance of the returns of the sectors most affected by the pandemic from the economic point of view with the activation of ambitious recovery programs that allow to make structural transformations, increase the resilience of the economy of our country. It is not possible to return to the prepandemic situation, but to move towards a more sustainable model, less uneven and, therefore, a more resilient model at the medium- and social level. The recovery and resilience mechanism is the main pillar of the Next Generation EU programme, which will assume that the Spanish State will receive up to 2026 a total of 140,000_million euros, of which 69,528 will be in the form of transfers and the rest will be in the form of loans. In the General Presuppositions of the State of 2021 there are, separately, the remaining parties of the Presuppositions corresponding to the fund of the mechanism of recovery and resilience, which amount to 24,198_million euros. Of this import, 10,318 is destined for the autonomous communities. In the form of current transfers there are a total of 2,685_millions, and capital transfers, 3,632_millions. The distribution by autonomous communities of these foundations is not fan in the general assumptions of the State, it is fan to the sectoral conferences; sectoral conferences that gather the ministry competent with the advisers or advisers of each territory that are responsible for this matter. Also, the information we have from the sectoral conferences shows that internal changes are being made in the presuppositional parties related to the recovery and resilience mechanism of the ministries. By the month of April, different sectoral conferences have been held, some of which have allocated imports to the autonomous communities, and the Government of Catalonia and we have assisted to defend that they reach the maximum amount of funds in our territory. In total, a total of 325 million euros were allocated until April to Catalonia, which accounts for 13.8_percent of the total number of autonomous communities. To give some example, in the area of social services and home care EUR 110_million, a 15.1_percent of the total; in the area of environment a 9.2_percent of the total – EUR 52_million, and in the area of energy a 16.4_percent of the total, which means that a little more than 65_million arrive in Catalonia. The Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Family, for example, in the plethora of the Territorial Council of Social Services of the 15th generation, participated in order to defend the resources that correspond to Catalonia in the distribution of the 730_million euros that correspond to the eix« Economy of cures and strengthening of policies of equal and inclusive. Of this import – com deia – correspond to Catalonia 110_million euros, a 15,1_per_cent. Local entities, assemblies, local councils, must participate at least in the 15 per cent of the assigned funds and, therefore, we will establish working arrangements with local authorities to specify the projects to which the funds are allocated and their relationship to this area. The Department of Justice, March 18, 2021, at the plenary session of the sectoral conference, we defend the position of the Generality and agree to the allocation of 20,6_million euros to the autonomous communities that we manage part of the competitions in the field of Justice Administration, correspondents to the projects for the digitization of the Justice Administration. Of this total, in Catalonia they correspond to 3,6_millions– a 17_percent of the total– and we expect that during this month of May this import will be added. For example, in the Department of Education, April 13th, Sectoral Conference of Education and Vocational Training: it is distributed in 610_millions. We defend the position of Catalonia, of which 91,6_million correspond to our country – a 15_per_cent. The Department of Presidency has participated in the Sectoral Conference of Equality to defend the position of the Generality. At this conference a total of 19.8_million euros was distributed, of which 1.7_millions are close to Catalonia – an 8.7_percent of the total. The Department of Territories and Sustainability has also participated and defended the position of the Generality in its Environmental Sectoral Conference of April 14. A total of EUR 576 million was distributed, of which 9,2_per_cent was allocated to Catalonia. At this conference they also allocated other resources, but they are not included in the European funds. The Department of Enterprise and Knowledge..., at the 11th Generation Energy Sectoral Conference, agreed on the distribution criteria for all incentive programs linked to electrical mobility: the Moves III programme. The Royal Decree 266/2021 approves the direct granting of these aids for a total import of 400_million euros, of which 16.4_per_cent, 65.6_million euros correspond to Catalonia. So, summarisingly, in the articulation for which it is a good part of the projects linked to the European Foundation which is done in this area of sectoral conferences, we have not only participated, we have obviously been defending our position, because in these programmes, which will be channelled through aids and not to specific projects, therefore, that Catalonia can play a prominent role. There's a lot of work left to do. But there is also a lot of work to be done to push forward and realize transformative projects that need to be used to shake our production system and project it into the future. Tomorrow we present the Vall d'Hydrogen Catalonia project and, without any doubt, shows that Catalonia has all the actions to lead the energy transition and become one of the main producers of the chosen energy source, hydrogen, as a strategic source for the European Union in the face of its own decades in the decarbonisation process. I'm done. I have made a general presentation of the situation in the country and of the work that the government has been doing in these months, especially since the 15th of February, since the day after the elections. But I can't let the opportunity pass by to make a final reflection on the political moment that we are living. MPs and MPs, so that we are still aware of how much the disaffection has increased with the task we are doing in this chamber and the combination of policy makers. The country's kicking. We are experiencing an unprecedented health and economic crisis and we must reach agreement. A full-fledged government is needed to boost recovery. And that's not possible, and at the moment, we're keeping in the middle of it. And we have, thanks to the outcome of February 14, a majority that, beyond the economic and social recovery and the struggle against this last tranche of the pandemic, we have a majority as we have ever had in this chamber to push the compromise with amnesty and self-determination. In the ho you can let go. This Parliament has said that it should have chosen the President of the Generalitat de Catalunya and ended up with a temporaryity that harms the country. All of us here, the 135 deputies and deputies, are representatives of the city of Catalonia. A citizen who, by luck, has a critical experience and has demonstrated once and for all that when it comes to it, commits to it. A citizen who has suffered from the pandemic and who continues to suffer from the pandemic. Because they lost family, because they lost friends, because they lost work or had to close the business. And why, from an emotional point of view, this situation that we've been experiencing since a year ago in our country is making a mountain for a lot of people. And we must be at your side. That we are at the height of the moment, because we have the obligation, we have the duty, we have no other option. Let's start regaining confidence. We face without delay the reconstruction of the country. We take advantage without further delay of the opportunity to transform Catalonia and advance democratically in the path of independence, self-determination and amnesty. We honor the word, we complete it. And Complimentary Compromise of all, which is in the election year. We govern, we do it already and we avoid the repetition of elections. It's a political empire. Some nine elections are going to be a genuine fraction of the 135 deputies and deputies, unnecessarily extending the government's inter-initiation, making recovery difficult, putting the 14-day independence majority at risk, and we could end up in a new enrocement. I place them thinking about it. I think we have to be honest, we have to be faithful to the compromise to avoid an electoral repetition when it is possible to put a government in the way. I am convinced that with the compromise of all and all of us being on the rise and breaking this dynamic that can pose the question of the credibility of our political compromise, because we are here to improve the life of our lives. We must conjure ourselves up so as not to jeopardize the prestige of the country's own institutions. We have the opportunity, it's up to us. I will fight, as I have been since the first second fighting there, from the night of the 14th of February, and I will continue to fight until later because this is possible. And I'm convinced that if we all put it on our side, that's how it will be. Many thanks, very honorable President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members. Good afternoon. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.200.0	After the intervention of the Vice-President of the Government, the representatives of the parliamentary groups will continue to speak for a maximum of fifteen minutes, which is the time we agreed to the Board of Spokespersons. In the first place, Mr Salvador Illa has the word on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.201.0	Good afternoon, very honorable President, Mr. Vice President as President, Councillors and Councillors. Mr. Aragones, I want to begin by thanking you for your appearance today. It is his obligation, of course; different groups have asked for it, among them that I represent in this Faristol, I think it is a waste in a situation like which we are living that the most responsible in the function of the government will compare, but I want to thank him because I know that it is not a moment, politically speaking, easy for you. And politics is also having some complicity, isn't it? I thank you for the fact that at a political moment, no simple people for you, you, honoring your obligations, will appear here today. I'll focus my intervention on three parts. The first to talk about what worries the citizens of Catalonia most today and to which you have also made extensive reference in your exposition, which is the pandemic, right? , the major in a hundred years, the covid-19. 14 months already – more than 14 months, right? – since the World Health Organization sanctioned its pandemic character, right? Since March 3rd, which is the last date, if I don't get confused, in which you gave accounts to the Permanent Council of your actions as the most responsible in the function of the Government, there are two essential or relevant facts, from my point of view, in the matter of pandemic. First, Holy Week, right? ; Holy Week that posed a risk in the management of the pandemic and that fortunately could be overcome controlling the situation. There has been an increase in cases, as you, in fact, have reported, but fortunately you have been able to control. And the second, the progress, the progress of the vaccination process, which is the authentic way out of this pandemic, isn't it? As we said at the end of last year, concretely on the 27th of September last year, when the vaccination process began in Spain and also in Catalonia, and in all of Europe, in a forty-four hour period, it was a progressive process, as the doses arrived, and it developed with the calendars and the way it had been predicted, and it makes it possible to say today that we have reached the objective that we had marked a 70_percent of people immunized in August, right? There have been – if I don't get confused, neither – eight meetings of the March 3 Process, with resolutions that fit the plan that together all the autonomous communities and the Government of Spain agreed to face this situation, and, therefore, the situation also from the point of view of vaccination has improved. And I can give you personal witnesses. I, yesterday myself, accessing the corresponding web pages, was able to arrange an appointment to immunize myself, which I will do – and very happy – the next half hour in the morning, eh? I encourage everyone to do it. We vacate, we vacate, we vacate. All of it. It's the way out. The situation is better, but this isn't over. You said that, and I'm also saying this sentence: the sound of the state of alarm is not the sound of the pandemic. We're still in a pandemic. And, therefore, I also want to make a call to prudence, to all the citizens of Catalonia, and a call to everyone to follow the indications of health authorities in turn. And I also want to make a condemnation, without pal·liatius, explicit and, if I may, energetic of all those incisive behaviors. He's not the one who plays – he's not the one who plays. And this past week we have seen – I suppose with concern, Counsellor Sàmper – some behaviors that are not acceptable. Therefore, she also cries out to prudence, condemns these incisive behaviors. From my point of view, there's been a lot of learning in this pandemic. This is not the time to hand them over, is it? But I do want to refer to one that is very relevant to me: that of loyalty, solidarity, cooperation, coordination between administrations. This morning Councilman Bargalló referred to what he described as successful, the recovery of face-to-face education, right? I like to be very careful talking about a pandemic, but actually I think that, by comparison, if not, with other countries, it was a success, because we decided it all together. I was present at the meeting at which Councillor Bargalló and Councillor Vergés, representing the Government of Catalonia, together with all those responsible for education and sanitation in the rest of the autonomous communities of Spain and the Government of Spain, we agreed twenty-seven points to resume face-to-face education. And it worked fine. Together, co-ordinates, loyal, with the loyalty of all we have been better. Or the vaccination program, which is a program, as you know, of European marriage, Spanish design and execution for each autonomous community. And together, the Europeans, the Spaniards and the Catalans have been better. Therefore, loyalty, solidarity and coordination. And I want to make an announcement, which I don't think I'm surprised at anyone, but I want to make it in your parliament, right? , and at the time of this retention of accounts that you do. The government in functions that you encapsulate has the full support – the full support –, without cracks, of the first group of the Parliament of Catalonia in the fight against the pandemic. Full support without cracks. It is possible that in this position there are also some doses of what I have experienced on a personal level. I could explain it now, but you don't see the case. It has the full support, the government in operation, of the first group of the Parliament of Catalonia in the fight against the pandemic. I believe that this offer, made in your parliamentary office, enables me to ask you to provide us with weekly information on those decisions that you make. I think it's in fair correspondence with this offer that I make without cracks. I want to rush to say that every time I've looked for the vice president in office or the health counselor in office I've found them; I've always found answers and attention to those questions that I've wanted to convey to them, right? And the second message, too, in the face of this principle of coordination, solidarity and joy that I want to convey, refers to an aspect that you have dealt with today, right? Solidarity, isn't it? Vaccination in Catalonia, Spain, Europe does not mean that we end the pandemic. We have to end the pandemic all over the world. Today I would like to bring to the attention of this Chamber the article, relevant to my opinion, by the President of the Government of Spain, Pedro Sánchez, in an international communication_media, advocating that intellectual property is not an obstacle for us to develop a global vaccination program. They have been manufactured..., it is expected that by the end of May 2,000 million doses of vaccines have been manufactured; we need 11,000 to vaccinate about 70_percent of the world's population. And until this happens, no one is safe. Therefore, solidarity also in a pandemic that we are going here for a good way to win, but that is, as you also said, a global abst. I want to comment on a proposal made this morning by Junts' representative for Catalonia, Mr. Batet, asking..., he gave an audit, I like to talk more about balance, analysis, appreciation, how things have gone. I agree. But with two precisions. And I announce and anticipate what my group's position will be in this sense, right? There is an agreement to balance together all levels of administration, the Government of Spain, governments of autonomous communities, municipal officials; I think that this should be valued together, all folded. And then, I announce that we will bet to make a build-up balance, to learn lessons and look forward, not to signify things that fortunately we have to overcome. So, yes to a scale, yes to do it together, because we've all worked together to get through this situation, and yes to build it, right? And a final comment in relation to this first point. I've been visiting different health centers. I was at the Hospital of the Seu d'Urgell, in Vall d'Hebron, in Tauli Park, yesterday at the Hospital of Mataró... I have seen, as you said, the magnificent work done by the professionals, as well as the need for more resources. I also offer my support here so that we can deploy them quickly and quickly. And I also want to highlight what I copied, which is that the ordinary care activity worked. And today we have heard a very positive news, that is the level of ruminant transplants from the living woman that occurred at the Clinical Hospital. Serve, this example, as a recognizance of the work done by all professionals. The second assumption that citizenship concerns – that you have also made reference – has to see the revival of our economy and its transformation, effectively, taking advantage of the mechanism of the European Foundations Next Generation. We're not doing well in this chapter, from my point of view, Mr. Aragonès. I can say, if I want to, in a less..., well, more constructive for you: it can do much more, it has to do much more; Catalonia can do much better and it has to do much better, can't it? I remember, because it seemed to me to be a very symbolic graphic design, the meeting on 26 October, which you attended, convened by the President of the Government with all the presidents of autonomous communities, the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, and the representative of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities. October 26th! It's been a long time, hasn't it? What's happened to the avalanches? Much more has to be done – much more has to be done. I think we need to have... you need to have a much higher level of self-requirement, don't you? Three notes respect that. I notice a lack of coordination and consensus building. Note to lack a much more fluid dialog with social agents – Workers Commissions, UGT –, known to lack a much more fluid dialog with representatives of the employer – Foment and Pimec –, to coordinate, agree, build together those projects that Catalonia has to defend. A_second note, which in very much: absence. I do not understand that you were not present, as the government's representative in office, at the time when the LOSS that will transform the automotive industry was presented. You can only have the ideas you have, but you represent – in function – all Catalans and you should be in this act and defend Catalonia's interests there, right? I have seen it in other visits I have made to the territory: a feeling of absence. Yesterday I was with representatives of the tourism sector in his region, Maresme. You know them well, don't you? Today, the spokesman of my parliamentary group addressed Councillor Tremosa to ask for agility and to offer help so that there is agility in the transposition of resources. We are still aware of how badly some sectors are going through this, and we are still aware that they do not understand how they feel about it present and agile. And the third note, at this point, I also want to say it with all clarity and respect. I think we're picking up what we've planted. Better yet, we go back to what we didn't sow, right? : gave years, to my criteria, of absence, of wrong priorities. And a minimum comparison... I don't like to do ranchings, do I? I don't like people coming here, but a minimum comparison of the work that some other autonomous communities have done, I think it doesn't leave us in a good place and I think Catalonia can do very well. And I want to make a second announcement. You, as Vice-President-in-Office, count on the support of my group and my staff to work to make the best possible use of European foundations. I am counting on you to accompany him, if I consider it opportune, to visit any responsible of the Government of Spain; if you consider it opportune, to go to Europe... I am counting on me. Don't play with these subjects. So you have a loyal and discreet attitude, when you need it, right? And the third point they pulled out of their exposure also wanted to work is to make efforts not to leave anyone behind. You also mentioned it. It seems to me that it is difficult, not to say very difficult, with the political situation that we are in..., to be objective, I think that from the 29th generation of 2020, when the President of the General Assembly said: "This legislature no longer has political recourse, up to its end; from then on it is difficult, with the political situation created since this announcement, that the citizenry does not suspect that the Government focuses all its efforts on ensuring that no one gets stuck. I can hear the feeling of malaise that many citizens of Catalonia may have seen the political climate since the announcement made by Mr. Torra, right? I can understand that Nissan's workers, Bosch's or Bic Graphic's have doubts that we're focusing all our energies on ensuring they don't stand back, right? What the tourism, the octopus or the restoration sectors have doubts that we don't do everything we can do like the government of Catalonia, that you can do like the government of Catalonia, to ensure that they don't get stuck, right? I want to petition him here; I want to ask him not to play – and I promise to do so myself, as far as I can – competitive ping-pong. I feel in the debates of this house always say: "No, this is the fault of the Government of Spain; no, this is the fault... Listen to me, we're all in this together. Let's not play competitive ping-pong. Only working together, complementing the actions... You have made reference to help that the Generalitat of Catalonia has made. I think they've done everything they can, but I think they have to do more, don't they? And I believe – as a witness – that the Government of Spain has done everything that it has been able to do; it has made extraordinary efforts, like all the governments of Europe, like all the governments of the world that have been able, to resolve the situation. So, they're asking you not to play competitive ping-pong, right? And I want to make a final comment – I ended up, didn't I? You, Mr. Aragones, ask for a dial. He made no flag, no dial. His political formation made the flag of the political dialogue. I think they've done well – I think they've done well. And I like that a political formation as relevant to Catalonia as its flag of political dialogue. Now, I want to ask you a question: how is the dialogue with vetoes practiced? How is it practical? How is dialogue if there are vetoes to a political formation? Miri, I represent Social Democracy in Catalonia, right? He may or may not agree – he may or may not agree – with the political approach of the political family to my political formation, but I think it is quite clear that some contributions have been made. In Catalonia, in Spain and in European construction, right? How is the dialogue with vetoes practiced? I ended up reiterating the petitions I made – suggestions that are petitions, huh? – that I did this morning. Here are the vetoes. First petition. Here are the vetoes. You're demonstrating your commitment to the dialyx. I'll take a step at the side. You didn't get out. I say it with all the personal and political respect that I have, that it's a lot, but it hasn't come out. Take a step at the side. And we do one thing that's the most normal thing in European democracies, which is that who won the elections can go to this chamber to try to get his confidence. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Aragonès, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.202.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Illa. Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, Mr. Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.203.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, deputies. Good afternoon, Mr. Aragones. First of all, I would like to say to Mr Illa that he has missed a_fourth announcement, which is the one who refuses to lead the opposition in this Parliament, as he is offering to form a government with Mr Aragonès. Well, I tell you, and also making use of your rhetoric, that I announce at parliamentary level that VOX assumes the leadership of the opposition to the separatist government that will surely be settled in the next few hours or days. [[Some applause.]] Having said that, Mr Aragonès, after your appearance, I want to start by remembering the dates. More than two hundred days of government in office; more than eighty days almost – in a few days we will fulfill the three months – since the elections and still continue to star in this theater to invest the new president of the Generalitat. Because it is, because it's a theater, Mr. Aragonès. What hides this true theater that Catalans are having to witness with deep amazement is nothing other than the fact that you have turned Catalonia into a spoil to be distributed between Lledoners and Waterloo. Mr Aragonès, what is relevant here and what must be said loud and clear after listening to him in his appearance is his absolute incapacity, the noisy spectacle they have been giving for weeks and the absolute situation of political paralysis. First of all, we had to humiliate ourselves in front of the UPC – which, by the way, has been short of time to run away in the face of the intervention of the fourth political force in this Parliament –; a party, by the way, which encourages political violence and which I hope, sooner rather than later, that the prosecution will rule on the illegalization of a party that uses violence as a political instrument. They've been able to bend him. Yes, Mr. Aragonès, and it seems they're even conditioning a government. And now we have to witness the voodoo of threats, scams and betrayals of Junts per Catalunya. I understand that this is a competition between seeing who is more separatist or who has the lowest ethics, but the truth that I repeat that the show that they are giving to the Catalans as a whole is really lame. But do you know who suffers the consequences? I'm telling you because it really seems like you're not realizing anything at all. The consequences are being paid by the Catalans on foot, the Catalans who have been abandoned by all of you for more than ten years, for their ideological fanaticism, for a separatist process – and, you know it well – which has only brought ruin, misery, division and violence to our land. The Catalonia which you claim to defend, Mr Aragonès, and which you have stated in your speech, does not exist. Catalonia is those Catalans, for example, proud to be part of a great nation like Spain; the workers concerned about the economic crisis, about the political waste that you have been carrying out for decades; those families who suffer, yes, the consequences of illegal immigration and crime also in the neighborhoods that you permanently silence as you have starred this morning and also all those children that you permanently indoctrinate in the classroom and prevent them, for example, from studying in Spanish. Look, the only reality is that you don't defend Catalonia, that you don't care about anything at all. They are filled with « Catalonia, « Catalonia, but they do not care at all. Really, don't fool anyone. They only defend separatism as a method of continuing to commit those excesses that have been perpetrated by this institution for so many years. A few excesses that show you don't care at all about most Catalans, that majority that you permanently despise because, I repeat, you don't care at all. And to those, by the way, you have made it very clear that your problems can wait. About the health crisis, for example. You, after listening, it seems to you that this has been, in the end, the adalid of management, of wonderful health data, that we have the best health advisor in the world... Look, it is that you have made absolutely no decision to deal effectively with this health crisis. Absolutely none. And if you have, Mrs Vergés, I would appreciate it if instead of scorning the fourth political force in this chamber you had the dignity of raising the phone and inviting this parliamentary leader to the meetings you call the rest of the chamber to explain the reality, because perhaps we know something we do not know. But I hope that, indeed, you have done absolutely nothing, for example, to strengthen health. But how do you get out here today and start saying figures and data about what you've done in recent months? Where were you in 2019? Where were you in 2020? Tell us about it. Tell all the Catalans you're listening to. It's just that you've come out here with triumphalistic airs and you forget the dead and the abandoned who carry behind your back. Shame on you, Mr. Aragonès. For example, tell us what you have strengthened health care or to those health care providers that you here today used to say: "How beautiful is the Day of Nursing, but if you have absolutely abandoned them. What have you done to strengthen social services or to protect workers or vulnerable people? That's right, now you've said you're going to target India. Ah, now it is, but what is it going to do? Everything you've denied our healthcare professionals in Catalonia? That stuff that doctors and nurses had to do, those diapers with garbage bags? Is that what you, Mrs Vergés, and you, Mr Aragonès, are going to go to India, which you denied Catalans? I'd have to give them absolute shame. But what they do know and that... right? You know what you've done, and I'm telling you, because maybe you don't have the courage to say what you've done at parliamentary level, what you've done is you've permanently allocated resources to your client network and to your mafia, in the midst of the pandemic. That's what you've done – that's what you've done. For example, by adding to what money has been spent on ending the health, social or economic emergency suffered by all Catalans, can you tell us where, for example, the 440,000_euros TV3 paid to Mediapro for those famous documentaries of the October One coup d'état have come from? Tell you what in parliamentary office. Are they an extraordinary contribution of the Government? Or have they been financed from the covid funds? You can say no, but say it here, that it's picked up by the media. That fund, I remind you – I remind you – should go to strengthen health care, to strengthen or improve the working conditions of so many doctors, so many nurses, so many auxiliary staff and also to increase, why not, those resources to primary care that seems to work so well and you know that it works very well despite the few resources that you allocate. But I already announce it, and do not take it as anything personal or as a threat of VOX, "that come to threaten... No, no, it is simply to demand justice. I assure you that you will have to be held accountable in a commission of inquiry. And it's not really a question of making balances or audits. No, no. A real commission, a commission of inquiry in this chamber for every dead Catalan, for every abandoned elder and for every troupe committed during the last few months. And we're going to push him. And about the economic emergency, you too have come out here and released a series of figures as if this were, in short, the example of the world. But you forget, Mr Aragonès, that you..., that your disastrous management is responsible for the ruin of millions of Catalans, for the ruin of millions of workers and entrepreneurs to whom your abusive restrictions have prevented, for example, working for the last fourteen months. You have said this: in the last year..., well, better said, in the year 2020 the GDP – indeed – Catalan fell more than 11.5_per_cent, above the average of the rest of Spain, but today, Mr Aragonès, Catalonia remains without an effective measure – and I repeat it's effective – to reactivate the economy. And some of you will have been deceived, because, I repeat, you have come out here repeating figures and figures and figures, but none of the measures that you are proposing or have raised are reducing the queues of hunger, the lists of unemployment... I told you this morning: get down on the street, go listen to the workers, the families who are going through real hardships. Go on, for example, to Sant Agustí Square in Barcelona, and look at the lines of hunger that you have generated for your disastrous management. It is that the absence of decent governments, Mr Aragonès, over the last ten years, has also contributed directly to the ruin that we are suffering today. Because you have contributed to what we have already repeated many times in recent weeks, since VOX broke into this chamber, and that other political groups have also denounced in recent years: the flight of companies, banks, the disappearance of foreign investment and tourists. It is that you do not transfer any certainty, Mr Aragonès, backwards. And in a few weeks, without going any further, we are going to face a key tourist season for our economy, and you are not giving, as I said, any message of certainty to the markets or to the tourists who have to come here. And I insist, and I make myself the claim of many confederations, of many associations of entrepreneurs with whom I have met these weeks, and they told me to insist that we are not getting out of the crisis, that we are still immersed in the crisis, that there are many workers, that there are many entrepreneurs who are in absolute ruin. And you remain permanently installed in a triumphalistic message, as if we were coming out of it. No, don't fool the Catalans. Do not silence so many families and so many workers who are immersed in the ruin and misery that you have contributed to generating. And yes, it is also important to remember – our deputy spokesman said this morning – that in Catalonia, Mr Aragonès, in addition, we have a real fiscal hell, contrary to any approach of economic reactivation at a time of health, economic and social emergency. Do you not realize that this drives investors, businesses, and disincentives, as economic activity could not otherwise be? Tell us what the resources are being allocated to; tell us what they are being allocated to all those millions that you have said from this rostrum. I say this to you: to promote your unique and exclusively ideological agenda. Yeah, you can laugh, but it's sad, but it is. It devotes its money to promoting its ideological agenda and to placing its associates in its Mafia client network that they have been creating for decades. And this..., as you will understand, so far, you enjoyed some impunity, or you enjoyed an opposition, because, in the end, you could say it – we have already seen the leader of the opposition as he has said –, reaching out to him, telling him that we are for what they want, but that is over. [[Rialles.]] The leader of the current opposition in this Parliament after listening to Mr Illa, leads him, hardly in spite of you, our political formation, and I assure you that we will not leave him a_millimeter to continue to commit his trophies and set aside that majority of Catalans that you permanently silence and abandon. Because you have done nothing for Catalonia, or for the Catalans, and I have said to you: get up here, self-governing the role of defenders of the earth, but it is all you do is impoverish and confront the Catalans. Mr Aragonès, you are a condemnation for Catalonia, the worst possible condemnation. And yes, they have done nothing for Catalonia, but absolutely nothing. You, Mr Aragonès, represent the greatest risk to the management of European funds. And I repeat, we will be very vigilant so that this money, really, reaches so many workers and so many entrepreneurs who are doomed to ruin. On the social crisis, too, he has made reference to the dramatic percentage of youth unemployment that we suffered in Catalonia, he has announced 16_millions that would affect, if I remember correctly, or I have not misunderstood, a thousand_quinent young people. What are thousands of young people, Mr. Aragonès, as compared to 30 percent of youth unemployment? Doesn't it really embarrass you? Does it not embarrass you to continue to waste hundreds of billions of euros each year while 30_percent of young people are unemployed? Can you explain to those youths how they will make a living? Can you say how many generations you are condemning and denying a job, a future, and the possibility of forming a family? To ruin and misery, Mr Aragonès. In addition to ruin and misery, the wave must be added, because it is also a social crisis... You permanently..., separatism and the left pretend to silence part of the social crisis that Catalans suffer, and that social crisis is called «violence and insecurity. And that is also part of the social crisis that you have promoted and promoted with your goodist policies. You will be able to live very close to Calella, as you said this morning, but you do not know absolutely anything, or do absolutely nothing, because for many months abandoned, the neighbors of Calella, like the neighbors of Ca n'Anngada de Terrassa, like the neighbors of Salt, like the neighbors of the Raval neighborhood and as many neighbors that could list now and that would not end, because as you well know I run out of time. In short, Mr Aragonès, I would urge you to stop from theatres, to really respond to the political, social and institutional crisis that you have caused, to stop looking elsewhere and to assume once and for all the consequences of your disastrous management. And I want you, at last, to do a reality analysis, because it seems that you are very far away: tell the Catalans that we have not touched the bottom, because that is the reality. We have not touched deep, Mr Aragonès, because for you there is never ruin, misery and division and violence seem to be enough, but there is never ruin enough to worry about the real problems of Catalans, right? To confront, as I have said, the economic emergency and to manage once and for all an efficient, effective programme of real aid to entrepreneurs and workers. In short, Mr Aragonès, let him know that we will be in this Parliament to denounce all his trophies, to denounce his hate speech...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.204.0	Mr. Garriga, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.205.0	... and to be very vigilant – I finish, Madam President – so that they stop, once and for all, misappropriating the public funds of all Catalans to what, unfortunately, we are accustomed to. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.206.0	Then there is the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle for Winning, the deputy Mr Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.207.0	Thank you, President. Today the CUP - A New Cycle for Winning we are here, in this appearance, to explain how we see the situation of the country, the problems of our lives and our lives. Beyond great analysis, we are here to build, to work, to change the one we don't like, the one that doesn't work, the one that only favors the usual. What we want to do... is what is possible and impossible to transform the various realities of our own country. We are here because we are concerned, and very concerned, about the present, but also about the future of this country. And we are extremely concerned that in this institution the figures are nothing more than that, figures in some papers, some statistics of each year, but that we do not value enough to go beyond all these figures, beyond all these statistics, we see that they are full of veins and veins, families that urgently need us to work from here to solve the problems of the road and that sees this country. And we're not doing it. And this situation doesn't just come from the 14th of February, it goes before, it goes far, from the 29th of generation of 2020, when President Torra has already given up this legislature by the end of the year. More than a year and four months later we remain the same, with a government running and the warmest still in the water. Actually, that's the way it's been this past term. But we can keep discussing it or we can start working on it all the time to give an answer to what people are asking us to do. And in this political bubble we lose a little perspective on what is going on, so, in the streets, what is going on in schools, in businesses, in work centres, in bars and restaurants, in the streets and places of our country. We've got to break this candy and put ourselves next to our people. Now I'll give you some statistics, Mr. Aragones, that you have also given us, that we care about, and a lot. More than 50_per_cent of the population says not up at the end of the month. In fact, even of the people who work, a 15_per_cent is at risk of poverty, and also of these, a 12_per_cent directly lived in a situation of poverty. Thirty-four percent of young people are in a state of emergency, as we have been told, and two out of every three young people under thirty-four years of age are still forced to live at home with their family. About 31_percent of the country's children live in poverty; 400,000 people live in severe poverty, with admissions of less than 350_euros; 1.8_million people living in Catalonia live at risk of exclusion; about 160,000 people continue in ERTO; about half a million people live in the dark, placing it at 12.9, Catalonia. And a recent one from this last quarter: nearly nine thousand jobs have been destroyed in the industry in Catalonia. And these data worry us, and a lot. But we are also concerned about others, which you have not done: the drama that we live day by day in our barrels in the form of denunciations. Last year, 2020, 5,737 families lost their habitat so they couldn't afford it, mostly they couldn't afford the logger. Even during the state of alarm, they told us that this would be suspended, that was not so. This wisdom has continued and is bearing... and it is destroying our good customs and our viles. And on top of that, as we see that they're growing more... they've been increasing for months, years, years, years, the prices of the flats, they're also increasing basic services, such as water, electricity, gas, or food products. And, to finish this, we're painting labor reforms that pre-characterize our lives with worse conditions and a storm that doesn't let us face the future with security. These data are terrible. The own economic and political system that we have is increasingly addressing inequalities and evading this social divide. A very important part of society is still experiencing the crisis that began in 2008, and in this large number of people there are going to be thousands of people every day because of the consequences of the current health crisis, which in fact is not a new crisis, but rather a systemic crisis – the system in itself fails constantly and has reproduced these crises. And not only is this crisis affecting, so the whole society just keeps losing rights constantly – and above all the right to live with dignity – and we're sending most of the people to fight every day for survival. A crisis that is reminding us every day of the difficult structural problems that we face with the country. Mr Aragonès, we have an economic model based almost exclusively on the service sector. For years and years, the tourism model based on precarious work and the impulse of macroprojects such as Barcelona World and everything that flows from it has been enhanced. And now, when this crisis came, we've seen how it's negating to put all the eggs in the same cyst. We have seen the closure of many businesses and trades linked to tourism; a great focus on areas where tourism monoculture has developed, restoration, small trade, autonomies or the night octopus, and the saddest of all, without being able to give work alternatives, because for years the industrial essence of this country has been lost. The generality has not been on the rise at the time of managing the effects of the pandemic. It's been improvised, or this is the majority feeling and in any case it's contrasting, which has not been so, because, surprisingly, there are no acts of the Procicat meetings. The measures taken at the length of these months have not been thought of or implemented thinking of the welfare of workers and workers assalaries, self-employed persons or small and medium-sized enterprises. Neither have the particularities of each territory nor of each economic sector been taken into account, nor have the consequences of the measures taken, which bring to ruin and despair concrete sectors, been taken into account. Calien measures – down measures – economic to help all these affected workers and workers, or this will eventually impact even more on the high taxes we already have. Mr Aragonès, we also want to talk about the climate crisis, the consequences of the decisions taken in this Parliament, such as Decree 16/2019. We already have a territory that has been badly abused for years with a model of urban saving, road macrostructures, electric transport, nuclear power plants, petrochemicals..., and now, in the name of energy transition, in the name of green energy or renewables, the usual businesses, those of IBEX 35, want to finish up our lands with wind or photovoltaic macrocentrals, by land, sea and air. But the people of the territory are full of them. The mobilizations are coming from the country claiming a moratorium, claiming the derogation, but above all claiming a dialogue with the territory. Quiet answers, and calm urgently. And European foundations? Should the money go to the hands of Iberdrola or Endesa or this type of business, for example? In this crisis, will public money be used to enrich or rescue large businesses? Maybe they don't make millions of euros a year? Maybe they have nomadic masses to pay their boards of directors? And so we go: first we rescue the banks and now we rescue these big businesses, so the revolving doors don't work. Don't you think that it would be much better to manage these money ethically, to democratize the energy transition and to lay all that money on the territory, on the families, on the autonomies, on the pages, on the small and medium-sized enterprises of the country? In short, the people who raise the Persians of this country every day, every day of the year. Mr. Aragonès, when a year and two months ago the pandemic iniciator, the workers of all the socio-sanitary communities called for a general wave under the slogan "We are not enough for you. They continue today to report a general lack of resources and a growing precariousness among professionals. We urgently need a comprehensive change in the health model to resolve this situation, where public money goes to the cent_per_cent earmarked for public health and the premise is just and necessary to ensure a public health system that responds to the new reality; that we never find ourselves in a precarious and deficient situation because of the detail of previous years. Mr. Aragones, never more detailed; it cost us empty masses. Mr. Aragones, what if we're talking about public education? What's going on? We came from the country from schools and institutes that fall to pieces; people and cities that urgently expect better performances or build nine schools. A community in a few wars, such as today, 13 May, where organized students have come out on the street calling for a space in defense of the public university, demanding commitments against the educational crisis, demanding the equipping of prices of degrees and masters and of degrees between themselves, demanding paid practices, to shield the catalá to the classrooms, revision of the teacher plans with a gender perspective and effective protocols and a clear position for the absolution of the companies sued to defend the public university. In this vague, sectoral struggle, today it has really reproduced what is happening at the global level to the country: crisis, years of retailing, backsliding from the catalá, inequalities and repression. Mr. Aragones, we are also patenting, and a few years ago, a democratic crisis without precedents– well, yes, we could find them, therefore, at forty years of dictatorship– ; more than 3,300 people prosecuted for different processes, and this has not yet finished: day after day, this list went up and in some cases the Generality is participating in this repression. And that has to be done, and now. We are fully aware of the autonomous limitations in this State and that all these problems that we have, that in many and many, we cannot solve them as autonomy, we can only solve them by no longer being so, by abandoning this imposed mark, heir to the Franco regime. And we can make decisions and move on to the breakup, because, if not, it will not change anything: we will continue to see how drawings of laws approved in this very Parliament will be suspended in whole or in part by the Spanish Constitutional Court. But we can't stay in the accumulation of weeds, we can't be paralyzed for resignation; we need to turn this resentment into strength to keep moving forward. In short, this country needs a programme and a political action of social transformation. As I said on principle, we are experiencing a systemic crisis that affects everyone, all territories and all sectors. And before that, as action, as answers, as a government committed to the country and on the side of its people, as courageous policies and for the majority, this is what we propose to deal with the situation of paralysis that we live in. First of all, a plate of rock; a plate of rock because no one is left behind; a universal basic income, to guarantee equality, to guarantee the right to live dignifiedly. And that we can pay: let's apply the European covid-19 tax, let's pay a 3_percent of the business benefits to companies with millions of profits, to the returnable fund, to the great tenors, to the always, a minority that have most of the winnings at the cost of all. They can tell us that the anti-systems are very little realistic, but at the same time this proposal was made by the IMF, the International Monetary Fund, and precisely many of our friends are not. Therefore, in this sense, there is an urgent need for tax reform where those who contribute the most to ensure that no one is left behind. With regard to the global health crisis, the CUP is proposing to free the patents of long-term cows, but until the White House, far from here, doesn't exactly say the same thing that no one is moving, no one does. So many coincidences between proposals that we make in advance that they are ignored and minor, but that they finally apply or if they do not debate, they bring us here today to tell them that they are escorting us more, that what we propose in no case are unrealizable proposals. In any case, we are able to move forward and make realistic proposals as well as breakers, which after most end up taking over. And these are not proposals from the CUP and for the CUP, they are proposals with broad social consensus to guarantee basic and fundamental rights. Therefore, public banking, public energy, expanding the housing park, universal basic income, public services to ensure equality; listen well, because this is what you see and will be a reality in a few years. In this legislature our challenge and our duty is to stop Parliament and this government from breaking down, from a process of acceleration...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.208.0	Time's up, Mr. Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.209.0	I'm done now. Conquest of social and national rights. We are in a very haste to develop public policies in the service of the majority and we are in a very haste to move towards independence in this country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.210.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group In Comú Podemos, has the word Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.211.0	Thank you, President. I see that Mr. Canadell is willing to applaud everything in Southern Andorra, right? Anyway, in Northern Denmark or... I don't get to say what. But good. [[Widow's remorse.]] Ugly joke – Ugly joke. Thank you, President. Well, Vice President, in the first place I'd like to thank you for your appearance. In fact, this morning you were talking about the need to have a government with new energies and that Catalonia needs a government with new energies. I, frankly, every month that goes by, I see that his government is a more exhausted, more broken, more warped, and less energetic government. And I said to him... in the past plenary, and today I repeat it again: or so, his government is the government of resignation, it is the government that there is no more remei; that is, the fem because there is no other. And I think it needs... and what Catalonia really needs is a government of transformation. And I will refer, in our intervention, from Comú Pode, to what has passed or to some of the things to which you have referred but which have passed from the last appearance, to the Permanent Chamber, on March 3. In fact, I think it has also stood out in some interventions... – and I will start with the health issue, because I think it is the most uplifting –, one of the questions that you have had, directly, to manage is the descalada, and also the first management of the Holy Week and after possible second or third or fourth week after Holy Week, right? We are concerned that at the end of the day we have the feeling that you are making decisions in the framework of the Process but that you are not able to justify them either healthily or from a point of view with which reports are based. I mean, we don't have any knowledge of the proceedings. My impression is that they are not able to make publics because they have so much level of discussion and barricades between you that if we know what is going on in the Process we would see this government torn apart, this government exhausted, that they do not take decisions depending on what is to be taken, that is, on the basis of the health and economic needs, but on the basis of the different interests of their councils and who wants or does not want to take the cost of certain decisions. It is not reasonable, in my view, that the actions of the Procicat are not public and that we do not know according to what criteria they take decisions. For example, when the decision was made to return to the regional confinement, the Mayor of Barcelona and also, I think, in this case, for example, right? , authorities of the Jewish Lands or even of the Upper Pirinius also asked them, for example, a metropolity confinement or even a confinement at the level of vegueries. We still don't know why it was better a regional confinement than a metropolity confinement. When you say in the information we've asked you, you say that one of the main problems can be agglomerations. I, in fact, this was the main argument that justified, since the Mayor of Barcelona and also president of the Metropolitan Area..., to justify this metropolitan and non-comarcal confinement. After that, other things that have happened and that we are also greatly concerned about. In these moments there is a process of outsourcing or privatization of the sterilization of four major hospitals in Catalonia: Vall d'Hebron, Sant Pau, Tauli and the Hospital del Mar. We thought that this, with the agreement with the UPC, was settled, because it was talking about getting back, wasn't it? , the public management of some health services; but it is that you have in the market new outsourcings, new privatisations. And, in fact, there are already the business committees of these hospitals that are addressing their addresses and addressing parliamentary groups and that are mobilizing. Because this has been tried at other times. He tried to do, for example, in Tauli, and this caused, for example, an increase in the defective material at the surgical level, of major contamination, in this case, also, in the operating rooms, and the increase above all of the surgical infections, and it was necessary to return to the internalization of the service. We ask him to stop this outsourcing, which is ultimately a privatisation. It looks like a shared project, doesn't it? , also from the addresses, for example, of the Consorci de l'Hospital del Mar. I have here a letter from Mrs. Olga Pané, who I believe was the councillor who wanted to appoint Mr. Illa, as the councillor of Salut, who shares the position of the councillor. I see that in some things they're not so far away, maybe we could hear each other and the country would get better, but I see that this health model you share, we don't. And we're asking him to do it. Another day we can also talk long and shut up about..., when we make some efforts because Together for Catalonia comes through a government door the CUP makes a lot of efforts to get in through the side door. But, well, that's another topic. Anyway, we're asking you to stop this outsourcing. We believe that it is obviously better a government without Mr. Tremosa, without Mr. Sàmper, without the Lord, obviously Calvet and his projects at BCN World, but in any case it will not be up to us to explain why it is better a government with Juntes for Catalonia, in Catalonia, inside. It is clear to us; it is clear that it is not. A third element that you would like to place, which you did not refer to. On the 30th of April there was a vacancy of the health net personnel, called in this case by Commissions and UGT, who claimed that the Catalan Government honor its word. That's what you didn't mention, and I'm asking. You have compromised that the health personnel who had been first line personnel during the pandemic covered the gratification that you decided, therefore, to give to all health personnel and that, moreover, also claim that you are recognized as essential personnel and that, therefore, your casualties are also clearly recognised as work-related illness. In any case, I would like to ask you whether this gratification will or will not reach the healthcare cleaning staff, as you are claiming in this vacancy. You also made reference to the fact that today was Nursing Day – and I think it's important to highlight it – but there's not enough just with the chips on the screen or the applause. Miri, the other day I was at the Hospital Residencia Sant Camil, of the Sanitary Consortiums of Penedès-Garraf, and explained to us the business committee as the rotation of the nursing staff is very large in the Catalan health system because the labor differences at both the wage level and the workload are enormous. And you're not resolving this. There is a lack of nursing staff and, moreover, a great deal of difficulty in covering places, because depending on whether you work in a hospital of the health consortium of a certain demarcation or if you work, for example, as ICS health personnel, the labor differences can reach 1,500_euros. I think this has to be solved. And that's what the people working on the corporate committees tell us directly. And then, of course, you always talk about primary care. But, look, I'm telling you honestly, our deputies and deputies wouldn't have an agenda if they had to go to all the mobilizations they had – I was in Sant Joan Despí; I have to go to Maresme, Dosrius; I have to go to Argentona; I have to go, for example, to Arenys de Munt; I was also last week in Sabadell – from how you have had a good part of the primary care in Catalonia. There is no municipality in Catalonia where there is no "christ" or mobilization to demand the return of the presence of primary care. And, besides, they also claim that many diagnostic tests that are instrumental in preventing the increase of severe chronic diseases, for example, in cardiovascular issues, or, even, at the level of, right? , development of cancer diseases..., which have fallen enormously in this past year, practically a 20_per_cent. So, when you think about recovering or how you think about recovering first this presence to primary care and, secondly, how you think about recovering the level of diagnostic tests that are instrumental in preventing us from finding ourselves in a third or a fourth burden, in this case, already, of severe chronic diseases, such as, for example, cardiovascular diseases, or, even, of relatively important cancers, right? And finally – you did make reference, to the situation of mental health – I tell you that you put on the political march like the Barcelona Assembly, that you went after what the Barcelona Assembly is doing. Therefore, I believe that in these months the health situation... I believe that they have many deficiencies in the management that they are doing, in this case, their government. Then I want to refer to the economic situation. You were talking about the importance of European foundations. And I agree. But I believe – and so there are social workers, there are employers and there are trade unions – that there is no co-government, there is no working together at the social level. It's cheese. Every time we meet with a social worker, whether it's the employer or the unions, they pose in question what is the level of social dialogue that you are going to end up with European foundations. And let us not deceive ourselves; that is, what the Catalan society knows about European foundations, what it really knows about European foundations, is the conflict between you, between the Republican Left and the Junts for Catalonia, between the Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Left, for which it remains with the commission of European foundations. This is what Catalan society knows about European foundations and what projects the Generality really wants to have these European foundations. And it's the reality. I think that some foundations that are fundamental for the economic transformation of Catalonia and for the economic revival of Catalonia and for the economic transition..., perhaps it would be good if there was a joint space of the different parliamentary groups and also of the social agents because together – because, more than anything else, you are a functioning government – we could discuss, decide, prioritize and, ultimately – because we are certainly talking about European foundations that will mark our own two years in Catalonia – we could do so with the maximum possible consensus. I also make this proposal, because I think you don't get involved. Perhaps we do not need a commission for European funds, but we need a Catalan table for European funds, too. The second is that you draw a picture of the economic situation, that's to say, say, right? , « GDP will grow by 6_percent, in any case we will have a rate of 12 to 13_percent, but it presents the Catalan government as the spectator of this situation. I ask you, are we supposed to have 2021, yes or no? I'm telling you, no. No, because we're late. But the question is, are we supposed to have 2022? The 1st generation of 2022 will have assumptions, yes or no? I know they certainly don't depend on you right now, but in any case, it might be good for all of us to compromise that after two years of getting started, right? The year with a presuppositional prorogation, so, maybe we'll have presuppositions when it comes to it, huh? And so... that I think they're fundamentals in this context. Then, too, it is surprising that the public investment or the investment in public works is making it more the Barcelona Assembly than the Generalitat. I don't talk about housing anymore, that the difference is sidereal. But they're a flu administration. I mean, how is it that the Barcelona Assembly is making more public investment than the Generality? The difference in presumption is abysmal. A fourth thing I want to place. You agree on how to manage the Advanced Foundations, yes or no? Why did this also happen... or do you agree that the DiR received a 33 per cent of the advanced funds? And the rest of Catalonia's sports entities, what's going on? And some funds that are for industrial recovery have to go to DiR? I'm asking. Do you agree with the Business Advisor and how are you managing the Advanced Fund? I'd appreciate it if you'd argue with me. I doubt I've answered that. The other is the industrial crisis. You have a company advisor who's missing. My question is, do you want to have a business advisor from the same party? Because today, Mr. Tremosa seemed to be doing very well; he said, "I met the Bosch workers yesterday. Do you know when Ms. Jessica Albiach was reunited with Bosch's workers, with the business committee? Make a_me. It's been a long time since they've been trading. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, I'm not talking to you; I'm telling you about your business advisor. You're not just here today as a candidate or as a vice president, you're as a vice president as president, and it's your government. Certainly, it's the government that, if I wasn't wrong, wants to repeat. I'm telling you, I don't want a government of resignation, I want a government of transformation. If, in fact, I'm asking for a government with you, but you don't want it. So, I'm finally asking. You want to repeat your government with Mr. Tremosa... or whatever, well, Mr. Canadell, who now practically agrees with the tax we have agreed on you and me, because one day you applaud one thing and another day you applaud another, so... Whatever it takes to get it will fall. It's not a worry. If that's what it's all about, if we know. But, anyway, we're not here. I, in short, also, for example, Nissan's theme. I'm not saying that. Also... your business advisor talks to Nissan, yes or no? According to the majority union of this country, which is Workers' Commissions..., it is complaint of the interlocution. I'm not saying it; if it's said by social workers, right? And I'm done with two things. The first also worries us enormously and I also ask directly to you. You share what you're doing on the squadron moss, for example, that you gave it to me the other day, don't you? – in any case, I don't know if the Interior Councillor agrees – a high command of the Mossos d'Esquadra, which is coordinated with the employer so as to reduce the social conflict? The other day the statements came out, also denounced by the unions, that the Mossos d'Esquadra were acting to reduce the social conflict coordinating with the employer. I don't know if limiting the right to vagueness or, you'll have to explain it to us, but in any case, he went out to the media. You make – and I finish with this – a reference to the political situation we have and it is obvious. I tell you, look, you, in the end, as you gave it to the beginning, resigned to do the same government, though you don't understand each other, and because there's no more reason. Let's hope not, there's a few days left. And, obviously, so we'd like to have a left government and a transformation government, because many of the things I've said to him– for example, recovery, in this case, right? , of the purchasing power of health workers and, for example, the gratification of the health clean staff, to end the privatisations of the health system – we believe that this will not work out if we are not in this government. That's why we want a government of transformation. But I, at least, place three commitments on the Catalan left, which we might agree on. Three minimum commitments. First, send Junts for Catalonia to the opposition. I think it would be the best for the left-handed people in this country. The second, raise the hollowed vetoes between left-wing formations; it would be reasonable. And the third one, don't put the votes in a window. It would be good if the votes were not just a trophy, but served to produce changes in Catalonia. Because I want to remember (sounds the acoustic signal indicating that the speaking time has run out) that Mr Maragall – who for me was the best president of Catalonia – when he was president, he did not have the majority of seats; yes, in votes, but not in votes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.212.0	Mr. Cid, time's up, you should be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.213.0	And Mr. Montilla, he didn't have them, neither in votes nor in escons. Because that's a parliamentary system, and maybe if we ever get our lefts to agree we'll get this country running, which I think is what it's about. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.214.0	Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.215.0	Thank you, Madam President. First, as we usually do in these appearances of accountability about the pandemic, thank all health professionals for their services, convey condolences to all families and friends of the deceased and many encouragements to people – more than four hundred more – admitted to the Catalan ICUs. And also, Mr Aragonés – and you have also commented here – celebrate the positive evolution of the pandemic at the end and, of course, something motivated, in this case, by the extension of vaccination. Having said that, Mr Aragonés, we cannot stop talking about issues that we understand have affected the management of your government in office over the pandemic. For us, his politics of corridor to distribute power with a party like Junts per Catalunya has postponed emergencies such as, for example, that of mass vaccination, useful and efficient, which has had serious organizational problems in the beginning and which, surely, have been overcome thanks to the voluntarity of hundreds of professionals dedicated to them, significantly the nursing collective, which recently celebrated its international day. They have also delayed problems such as facing the dramatic unemployment figures, which are almost five hundred and a thousand unemployed in Catalonia, and rescuing precisely the sectors affected by the pandemic, which you have provided very little help and have turned them into the target of your restrictions. You have also postponed urgentities involving coordination with the Government of Spain, such as the allocation of European funds or the end of the state of alarm, which you have not been able to coordinate with the Government of Spain at all. They just didn't want to talk. That is, the fights that you are having, since we had the elections three months ago, with your partners are really affecting the day-to-day management and people's lives. You have recently taken up the anti-system of the CUP – on the other hand, beloved neighbours of Ciutadans corridor – and you have signed one, which seems to be a minimum agreement now to save the process, which is still the modus vivendi precisely of the CUP, of Esquerra Republicana and of Junts per Catalunya. Those are their priorities. The problems in forming government are the result of the reckless independence adventure in which you yourself gave yourself to me. The result is the decomposition of reasonable and possible independence, if there was ever such independence in Catalonia. Probably, yes, the most idealistic, when you have brought him down to Earth, has resulted in an ingenuity and a real headache for all Catalans. You have generated a massive collective frustration as a result of the lies of the last ten years. And now you yourselves have gone into a dead end, and the alley is narrowing more and more as you spend the weeks dragging these conflicts, to a large extent absolutely ethereal, symbolic, abstract, but with an immense capacity to generate hatred in society. Or do you, Mr Aragonese, not believe that it was hatred that we saw at the gates of the Republican Left? Fix this headline of the ABC newspaper: "Join your bases against Republican Esquerra: "Junqueras, traitor, rotten you in prison." This is so ugly and so brazen that it attacks your sensibility that I say it here in Parliament. And it's just that TV3 won't tell us, nor will they tell us in their subsidized media. Because this is an indication of how much you have instilled hatred in Catalan society. I'd like to know what's in the head of those pre-retired people with a full stomach who are protesting there to shout 'war, war, war, war for the earth. What do you mean by that? That your children go to war? There are already some of the leaders of the trial who do not care that their children go to prison, there have already been statements like this. But these others, what do they want? Killing fellow citizens of yours, who do not agree? What is this about war, war, war, war for the Earth? I believe that the reckless adventure of the process, the discourse of you, of the independenceist parties, has fueled the lowest passions, even among your own ranks, and have ignited a war-civilist climate that can set the streets and the coexistence between Catalans on fire. He's already done it. But you persist in your error. This war-civilist discourse that poisons coexistence also has its leaders in Republican Esquerra – of course it does – and also in the leaders of Junts per Catalunya, which precisely and curiously we make a full on a commission of study of racism and, listen, we are purple to quote phrases from several of its most conspicuous leaders and are an example of how you practice exclusionary nationalism and are possible examples when you have to take up the task of ending racism from the Parliament of Catalonia. Francesc de Carreras, our admired founder, said that what we are currently living in Catalonia is the triumph of the Spanish-speaking strategy that Esquerra Republicana has been implementing since the 1990s. And this is a radical strategy that was definitely imposed when you acceded to the tripartite government at the hands of the Socialist Party. And when I heard Mr. Illa today, so deeply appreciated and politically respected, I thought, "Of course, Mr. Illa says how kind he is. I have also extended my hand, Citizens have also extended my hand not only to you, to any other government, when we have been opposed to fighting the pandemic. But when you're in Catalonia you can't omit the other side of the independence coin, you can't omit where our money goes, you can't omit where our main efforts go. And, of course, if you want to form another tripartite, now or after the election, you have to be very kind with this ugly face that has nationalism in Catalonia. And I understand it, I understand that you do so, but you also understand that someone in Catalonia is going to have to represent the Catalans that we are tired of and it hurts our head to see how you continue to negotiate a possible government and what is separating you to start managing is precisely this radicalized process that you have begun and that is now under the auspices of nothing less than the gentlemen of the CUP. That is why, Mr. Illa, if there are new elections do not propose to agree with those who are going to give us more of the same, let us propose to win them – let us propose to win them – and to get Catalonia out of this infinite loop in which the independenceists are getting us into. Look... Mr. Aragonès, an example: since you last appeared specifically for the covid, a..., let's say, a sample button that shows how you pollute everything, even health management: what happened with the vaccination of police and civilian guards. That's a demonstration of hispanophobia. And then comes a scientist, a political scientist like Mr Argimon, and starts to justify the unjustifiable by parking up the health arguments and resorting to contemptible political arguments. Of course, that's why Mrs. Borràs, when she was running for election, said that she wanted to put Mr. Argimon as a Health Advisor, the political scientist who said that police and civilian guards had to be vaccinated..., would mean the delay in vaccination of those over seventy years of age, that is..., and that they lacked a list and I don't know what else. Something embarrassing. Mrs. Vergés denied it here with her head. I say to you: we demand in your day the resignation of Mr Argimon and ask you to cease it, if not. Today we say to you: we ask for your resignation, Mrs Vergés, we ask for your resignation, which keeps a person who is not guided solely by health criteria or complies with the proper protocols to vaccinate the people who are on the front line, even if it is national police and civilian guard. I mean, we're asking for Mrs Vergés' resignation here. We make our announcement, too. Mr. Illa made one. Mr. Garriga made the other one. I also ask and announce that here we expressly request the resignation of Mrs Vergés. Look, we, urgent measures in this pandemic stage, also want to say: we don't do like Mr Illa, we just tell him the nice things and the collaboration. I also invite you and tell you that we will cooperate in whatever it is and suggest urgent measures in the health field – already being done –: speed up vaccination to achieve group immunity as soon as possible. I will be very sorry if I do not reply to you today, Mr Aragonés; my colleague Ignacio Martín Blanco will do so, because I was precisely called to give me the vaccine this afternoon and then it turned out to be full. So, I'll have to go out later and get the vaccine. [[Some applause.]] And I will be able to congratulate directly the health workers who are in one of the very centres that you mentioned. Speed up this vaccination and that's probably what frees our society from the yoke of its calamitous management. Because the more people we get vaccinated, of course, the less we will suffer with this temptation to make restrictions on hospitality and other groups that certainly end up fed up with your management. Healthcare professionals who are already immunizing are to be gratified. The recruitment of primary health-care personnel should be strengthened in order to avoid the collapse of the health-care system. And if we immunize as quickly as possible we will minimize the outbreaks of infection and we will be able to tackle the massive screenings and the minimal interventions that are essential in territorial and population terms. In the economic sphere, therefore, I have already criticised you for not having an dialogue with the State to secure sufficient European funds for Catalonia. They have said so precisely from the Government of Spain. Go to all the necessary economic forums, Mr Aragonès. This too... this is one of the few soft reproaches Mr. Illa has made you. Don't leave the chair empty. You must stop barren negotiations on the Council of the Republic and get rid of these problems. The solution is not to give the note or lead an offensive with the Basque Country, Navarre, Valencia, Balearics, as some social-democratic comrade asked. We must stop being offensive and we do not propose offensives, but cooperation with the rest of the autonomous communities. Another economic measure, the self-employed: zero income, zero taxes. Another measure: responsible opening plan for night leisure avoiding the proliferation of bottlenecks on the public street increasing the risk of contagion. And, finally, the allusion to this threat of repeating the elections. We are getting used to it in Spain that the electoral cycles look like a second round. To us that seems a fraud to the voters, if you cannot agree, then go to the remedy of a second round. I, even though I believe that constitutionalism would benefit, although I am convinced that you would lose your famous 52_per_cent of 50_per_cent and that weak argument would no longer have it, I am convinced that constitutionalism would indeed be massively incorporated into the ballot box this time and that we would be able to wake up and mobilize the Catalans who are tired of the failure that you, the independenceists, are bringing to Catalonia. Look, what I'm saying to you too, I'd like to quote, make a quote from Ortega and Gasset about the response to those emergencies from the liberal center. And I will end with this quote: "Liberalism is the supreme generosity: it is the right that the majority gives to minorities and is therefore the noblest cry that has sounded on the planet. It proclaims the decision to live with the enemy; even more so, with the weak enemy. Remember in these dark days when you are generating a war-civilist climate. [[Widow's remorse.]] My lord's mother! [[Pause.]] Someone had to say... [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.216.0	Then there is the word, on behalf of Grup Mixt, Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.217.0	Thank you very much, President. And very late everyone. Thanks for the appearance. I announce that I will not make any announcements. I'm telling you why... [[Rialles.]] I've moved on... [[The timer laughs.]] Looks like I'll be the only one. [[the timer riu]] that I will not make any announcements and therefore devote my intervention to assessing the political situation in Catalonia in relation to the intervention made by Mr Aragonès. And I'll do it... I'll try to be as telegraphic as possible through six points as a summary of the same. Point number one. Unpublished institutional lock for the duration, at the worst possible time. For the duration because, effectively – and this has been explained before – we live for a long time not only in Catalonia, but also in other autonomous communities and also spent in governance at the conjunct of Spain, institutional instability and blockage, electoral repetition. But the institutional blockade we're living in and the paralysis of so many months, that's unprecedented. The length of time is unprecedented. And that ends up provoking, first of all: political instability, also unprecedented. Mistrust and contempt of Catalan institutions, which implicitly, you yourself, Mr Aragonès, have acknowledged. Implicitly, when I said that I was going to overcome this contempt, I was recognizing that the uncertainty that you are causing was eroding confidence in Catalan political institutions. This is solely his responsibility, for whom he must form a government, because he has the majority to do so, because, in this case, we obviously do not have it. And this unprecedented institutional blockade basically has two root causes. A lot more, huh? As much as you're trying to look normal, a certain normality in your speech, has done a proliferation of data that seemed like the board of directors of a Catalan pea, but, at the time of truth, the things that are going on here are much harder and have a political background, aren't they? And this political review that discredits the immense part and the vast majority of his speech is the absolute political dependence of Waterloo and, to a lesser extent, of Lledoners and subjection, yet, to ghostly organisms such as the Consell for the Republic. As a result, Mr. Aragones, his speech, straight, I don't say no, but it's a dumb paper. He has nothing to do with his government's action, his government's action, with what he said here because the government's action is absolutely null, because you have no power, because you yourself have given it up and have voluntarily given it up. It gave way to Waterloo, it gave way to Lledoners, and, at last, it was self-limiting in its functions when Mr Quim Torra came out of the political scene. So, all that explains... yeah, man, some data has to come in, it would just be missing. But it is obvious that there is no type of political program and there is no type of political action that can be qualified as such. Point number two. The subjection to a space of left radicality vocationally anti-system that is the CUP. You have appointed the CUP rapporteurs of the negotiating table between Esquerra and Junts for Catalonia. And it came to the public opinion of this negotiating table as if it were practically a Middle East pauper, but it ended up drawing a frankly comic scene. You wanted to appoint a rapporteur for the Catalan versus Spanish table, to say the least, and at the end you could only appoint a rapporteur for the Junts versus Esquerra table. They've had one thing far worse than they wanted in the first instance. Point number three. The confluence of points 1 and 2, the former, punish, for instability, the Catalan economy, and punish her hard. The combination of Spain's highest fiscal pressure, constant attacks on private property and legal insecurity, such as in place, in Spain, end up generating, such as in place, a flight from business. The other day in the control session, he explained the data. It turns out that Galícia, Madrid or Andalusia, among others, are creating more companies than those that arise, are improving foreign investment, and, in change, Catalonia, as explained to the control session, even fell into its foreign investment a 22,7_per_cent. Point number four. Of the three previous points, leave you absolutely unprotected with more sectors like now oci, culture, restoration, inn. After scanning them, as I have just explained, they have deceived restaurateurs and hosts, ensuring that they improve the ITP of terraces, when in reality it was the application of a judicial sentence. That's a veritable shame worthy of Trilers from the Rambla. It's not strange that they're very and very outraged at you, but very, and the communications they've made to the public lately, so they're pale. We have long been defending a rescue plan for these sectors with a general downfall of taxes, which we have presented in this chamber, and moratoria in other taxes such as that of tourist states, which you have practically left in a moratoria that does not give for nothing, because there has not been and will not be for a few months, yet, the ability of this sector to get out forward. Point number five. We are at midday 2021 and Catalonia continues without any presupposition. The extension of presupposition 2020 means that we continue with assumptions that are absolutely out of date to manage the pandemic, but that, in change, are full of mistaken identities, and I explain myself. The 239_millions devoted to TV3 and Catalonia Radio are totally disproportionate and convert the Catalan public media into the most popular in Europe in relation to the people they are addressing. I like to be strict about what I say. The busiest in Europe, public media, in relation to the population to which they address, in this case, Catalonia. 60_millions of institutional advertising or elephantic structures that offer private initiative. And point number six, finally. In a change– from one band, I explain what identity is –, Catalonia continues to the top in social protection and social spending. The health assumptions of the Government of Catalonia, in its structure were designed approximately a decade ago. This means that they are, because of the situation we are living in, obsolete in the characterization of the parties, insufficient in their quantities. And if that's not enough, it turns out that the assumptions extended now, already entailed a reduction of the sanitary expense according to the previous assumption of a 15_per_cent. That is to say, the worst possible assumption in health matters for the worst possible situation. And they didn't... because it's clear, in a situation like this, that I'm even talking about the structure of the same premise. You don't have the capacity to do anything, but it's obvious that you haven't been looking for a way to create a political climate to approve a different premise. Catalonia is allocated 5.3_percent of GDP to sanitation, when the Spanish average is 6.4_per_percent, and it has to be said that I am very afraid that it has nothing to do with Madrid or other autonomous communities. They do a bit of self-criticism, because this is solely their responsibility and their priorities. Exactly the same thing that goes on in education. Catalonia continues to feel all Spain leader in barracks: 200,000 students distributed in 1,046 barracks, 32 more than last year. Well, to change this type of thing, you would have had the opportunity to talk to the rest of the political parties, because, indeed, of the vast majority of their political agenda, which is absolutely unfortunate and which is destroying living together in Catalonia, as I tried to explain to the control session this morning, we will not find ourselves there, but we could have talked about these things: teaching, sanitation. By sectarianism, our role has been diminished in the hour of being able to improve all these policies. You'll know why they do it, because this kind of prepotency at the end is always paid. In short, this is the panorama we have, every day worse, in Catalonia. And so, it's the result of new years of separatist process, and you continue exactly the same way. And I'm very afraid that while I'm handling Waterloo, and to a lesser extent, as I said before, Lledoners, this will continue exactly the same, because they are not covers, as I did this morning, to eliminate the monster that you created yourself and that will eventually pass to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.218.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.219.0	All right, good afternoon. Thank you, President, Vice-President, Councillors, Members of Parliament. Let me begin with an expression of sorrow for death, today, of a companion, of a registrar, a hug, Lluïsa Llop, a companion, registrar, spokesman of the Republican Left to the Assembly of Vilafranca del Penedès. Look, I think we're clear that we're all aware of ourselves, even though we obviously value it with very different shapes. It's true, after more than a year of living, we see, it's still clear that the fevers and inequalities that were there and that we're still generating, and front that we don't have any theory or the right instruments, powerful, necessary, that would give us assurance of success in their approach. The prevailing doctrine before said that we were well, that we would already recover from the crisis, that of 2008-2015, and that, of course, the covid arrived and made us all sick. It paralyzed the economic activity and generated some terrible effects in society. That's not true. Or he's not exactly right, huh? We're gonna get out of the fake crisis. That co-managed crisis of the European state club, under the shared hegemony, Mr. Illa, of socialists and populars, Mr. Fernàndez, from all over Europe. Excluded holders, both of them, of austerity imposed policies, zero deficit and system-wide breakdowns in public services. European citizenship, I think, should and could claim damages and damages for the decisions they took in that black six-year-old, huh? And even more so because of the terrible consequences that we still live and skate today. A good part of what we're doing today comes from that period, from those decisions and from those protagonists. All that was a wrong recipe that made us get out of the crisis by aggravating the disparities with which we had entered – between work and capital, between precariousness and instability, between generations, between classes. This pandemic has multiplied those inequalities and has exposed the structural inequality of the model in which we live. And, please, Mr. Illa, don't give us the same growth pattern again, huh? That's what you and your company are doing in Madrid and here. It's the model that's had us so far here, and you just want to reproduce it: growing to the price that it is, "jobs, jobs, jobs, as some of your companies say. It's all the opposite of what we need. Of course we need growth, but not this one, not this one. We need transformation, we need ambition and we need a new conception of what society means, equity, equality and dignity of our society. Also, why not say so? This last year we made..., it became more visible still the difference between different models of management of the situation, especially in the conjunct of the State. The « Madrid model, which we have so well recognized – and so successful in electoral terms, certainly – the model that uses public resources to propel an explicit economic elite, the best example, we could almost say, of the Acemoğlu-Robinson manual on which he means extractive elites. It is the model of health segregation for rich and poor barrels, that of the state elites, centralizer and insolidarists, that of the black hole that combines and absorbs the best acts of the majority of Spanish regions– they see, if they want, the evolution of the pes relative of the respective territories on the GDP of the joint – or the concentration in Madrid of their businesses and of the public contract. A black hole to which they have certainly only known and have been able to resist Catalonia or the Basque Country for obvious reasons of history, industrial, societal and institutional strength. Our model, the model to the other band, the « model Catalunya, the model that we defend, is the model that has defended this country, that of progressive and solidary taxation, which has made hands and hands so as not to let anyone go back in such complicated moments. It is the model of a government that has understood that guaranteeing our freedom is guaranteeing health, economic, vital security, mobilizing all possible resources; it is the model of solidarity against privilege. And I feel proud of this model, much as I say. Look, all of you who have criticized at the same time the management of the pandemic and the temporaryity, the instability, the uncertainty in which we live installed from the institutional point of view. No, of course, still worth it, huh? This government of Catalonia has had an immense merit of this... with debates, with internal conflicts, with everything they want, it has left the management of the health crisis harder than it has affected us; it has gone much better than others. Not optimally, not perfectly, but truly, and today's figures that Mr. Pere Aragonès has given us prove it to us... Of course, denying the figures, denying the reality is always easy, but they're here, they're who they are, in position and in denial. And from these figures..., Mr. Aragones explains the efforts we have made, does not deny the situation of gravity and the data of gravity with which we face them – the hard work, the youth work in particular, the housing work, the health work as well as the structure hanging out better, all that you want to do – but it is clear that the effort and management that this Government has made is an effort and management that it deserves to respect and that it deserves positive appreciation in a very explicit way. The General has made an over-effort the past year, an over-effort that we must now consolidate. We must, of course, stop covering up the holes that have caused the inaction of the central government, which has not met its citizens in the same measure. We do not say that, says the European Central Bank, which points to the state as the least generous at the time of approving direct aid. Let's put in some figures and put in some concepts in that sense, too. The covid has generated additional needs for spending of nearly 4,000_million and has reduced public sector revenues by more than 1,000. We can measure the total impact of the basket in 5,000_millions, of which we have rejected as additional fonts no more than 70_per_cent. And, despite this, the Generality has gone away, above and beyond the State, better than the State and better than the rest of the autonomous communities. For example, we have allocated, as Mr Aragonès has said now, EUR 1,800 million in direct aid to help alleviate its effects. The next autonomous community is València, with 580. We've tripled the highest of the rest of the state. Or, for example, the difference between the expenditure per capita in direct aid between Madrid and Catalonia: EUR 231 per person in Catalonia, EUR 52 per person in Madrid. We have also captivated our health system, we have added important contract to education and health – it has also been explained, I do not insist. It seems to me that the measure of effort and success with which it has been deployed is obvious. The case of the Catalan education system is a case of European reference. This morning they explained it, the deputy Palacín and Councillor Bargalló commented on it. It seems you're obvious, you're undeniable. In these conditions? Yeah. With this temporaryity, with this characteristic, in function. And that's governance, and that's the model we want to become strong, stable, definite, and transformative. This is why the Republican management now has to continue, but obviously, oriented towards recovery, to the creation of equity, to the transformation of our production model. We understand that those who only think of their privileges are attracted to the mermaid songs of liberalism due to the extreme, not to what Mr Fernández explained to us, but to another of a very different kind that today lives and dominates in our territories: those who want to enjoy without thinking about the health consequences of their actions, those who talk about prioritizing the economy and reducing the educational services without implying that the future of a whole generation is the most terrible damage that can be done to an economy and a society. We do not; we reaffirm ourselves with a republican program that guarantees the freedom of all, because it guarantees the health, social, economic and vital security of all citizens. We will not enter the Swiss competition to see who brings together better fiscal paradigms. They won't, will they? On the contrary, on the contrary. First, we will work, as we are already doing, with a vaccination program as ambitious as the reserves of cows allow it – yesterday they put the second dose, certainly, in a fantastic way and in CAP Adriana, near my home. The most important strategic decision we have now, of course, is that of the 30,000_million management close to the Next Generation funds. It is not clear that we can do so on the conditions that Mr. Pere Aragonès explained to us and wished and drew. We are watering, and we are pending, but there are critical, worrying signs of how you are managing, preparing, drawing the management of these foundations. Catalonia has to be able to manage the part that corresponds to this fund of reconstruction and it has to be able, not to participate, to share and to take the lead in decisions. The central government seems, in change, in close collaboration with the great public and private enterprises, is – it seems – willing to decide almost exclusively on the bulk of the European resources to come to the State. We won't resign. We need to take advantage of the funds to prioritise projects that also strengthen the Catalan socio-health system, which contributes to the transformation of our product model based on the better relationship between training and work, with all the efforts made in increasing productivity and in the added value of products and services from today's, our Catalan business fabric. Certainly, now that the debate is more present than ever, when we talk about energy and digital transition, we need to talk about the country we want, the country in its conjunction. When we talk about it, in fact, we only talk about territories, when we talk about digital transition; a complete territory, equipped, served, able to deploy in all its points the maximum of the proper actions. We need to dig deeper into this Catalonia in the open, this southern Catalonia, of seven million citizens, with Barcelona as the capital of all and for all, not as the center that is also the black hole of our own country and that absorbs energy, wealth and creativity. It is precisely a question of organizing folds for, for example, generating, distributing and consuming more efficiently the renewable energy that we are on condition of obtaining. The example of the Valley of the Hydrogen of Catalonia that they have explained to us before, is the best example of what cooperation, network and general interest of this country means. Especially if we add to it, Vice President, the multiplier effect on the industrial environment and on the business fabric, on the advanced services that in its turn we would be in conditions of promotion, if we did well. To do so, therefore, to all this, we must have a strong country and, to hold it, we must have a strong government. It's time for responsibility. I would like to say, too, that there is maximum democratic and, first of all, self-requirement institutional responsibility to all levels and to all entities: the Government and Parliament of Catalonia, assemblies, deputies, public enterprises, consortia, institutions, etc. It's time everyone took on their role, legislator, ruler, manager, cent_per_cent. From the outset, let me hide, this Parliament must complete with its first and most important function: to define a majority that allows to invest a president, President Aragonès and form government, immediately. If we respect ourselves, we can't last another day. The government of Catalonia that must leave this chamber, the republican government that you will preside, Mr Aragonès, must immediately begin to take decisions, to manage the critical situation of this present, of many parts of our society and of our economy, and at the same time to begin to draw, to concrete national horizons of the immense transformative magnitude that we all know possible. Even more: your government, Mr. Aragonès, this government is keen to build the country from a progressive and transformative vision, will also have to take up the path of freedom, the path in which most of this chamber is compromised, to the service of the citizen majority that we represent. A path of freedom that will call us endless coughing for the dialogue with the opposing State we know, a state that has become addicted to repression, as we have just proven with the Court of Auditors or with the scenes that are happening out here right now. We must also put in place the infinite joint determination of society, political organizations and institutions, in order to prevent, accompany and achieve the immediate objectives of amnesty and self-determination that we have proposed. Steady and transformative governance or installation in provisionality and uncertainty. This is the dilemma we have to answer today itself. The new government in Catalonia is the best news for the central government, for socialists and populars, for all the Ayusos and VOXes known and to know that they want to do great on the side of division and internal confrontation, presumably – as we have just heard – and that sometimes it seems that part of independence wants to preach and practice. And at these movie heights things are pretty clear: either we work for the immediate investiture or we work to convert the Generality into the northeast office of La Moncloa. Either we work for a Republican Generality or we allow the health cord to Republicanism that we have seen in the Barcelona City Council or the Barcelona City Council also triumph in the Generality. I agree that yesterday we signed the three groups of the majority. I have a recovery that guarantees social rights for everyone. I am left with a democratic struggle that the State is asking across the borders of independence. At the same time, I should hear that there are those who prefer to break the independence majority before they lose control and have the last word about their projection and strategy, that there are only those who understand the unit as submissive. Or, even worse, we will have to find that since the division and the internal confrontation is working for the benefit of the adversaries, for the benefit of the State and its delegates and ambassadors in Catalonia, the only ones who would probably come out favored by a new electoral call arising from intransigence and incapacity to assume in a way the results obtained on the past 14th of February. So, for all this, to end...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.220.0	Mr. Maragall, time is running out, it should be over.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.221.0	Let's say that we have to be certain that to take all these challenges the best is that this Parliament is able to work and invest as quickly as possible the only real and viable candidate, Pere Aragonès, to lead a new Republican Generality of freedom, equality and progress. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.222.0	And finally, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Jordi Fàbrega.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.223.0	Thank you very much, President. Many honourable President of Parliament, Vice-President in office of President, Councillors, Councillors, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, good afternoon to everyone. I can't start this intervention to talk about covid-19 without giving our most heartfelt condolences to the 22,046 people who were in Catalonia for this pandemic, as well as to the more than 3_million dead we unfortunately have to mourn all over the world, according to official figures. From here, all of our escalph and support their families and friends. We also want to express our infinite gratitude to all the health professionals who, from the beginning, have demonstrated their vocation and excellence in facing this complex situation that has affected us all, but especially them. Just today, twenty-four hours later on International Day of Nursing, all our thanks for your tireless pocket despite the difficulties. Go before this pandemic is the hardest and most complex health situation that, like society, we have faced over the last hundred years, and so its management has been and is very complicated, especially at the beginning, when we have many questions and very few answers. Now we have more data, now we have more information, and above all we have some cows with an unimaginable effectiveness a year ago, just when this evil began, and so now we begin to see the light at the end of the tunnel. A health crisis that has led to an economic, social, emotional and psychological crisis without precedents, and from which it will be very difficult for us to get out. Especially if we don't take the best decisions right now, especially thanks to the European Foundation. But let's remember the ciphers. I think it's essential to contextualize its magnitude. Vice President Aragones did it, there's someone who didn't like it because it's fes, but I think it's worth it. More than 666,000 people have been diagnosed in Catalonia; of these, 22,046 people have died. Today there are still 1,227 people in hospital, 410 in ICUs. All our strength for all of them. The positive data is, in the sense of doubt, the 3,323,248 doses of cows administered, xifra which is gradually rising. More than a million Catalans and Catalans with the complex pattern of vaccination, a 29.4_per_cent of the Catalan population has already rejected the first dose and almost a 14_per_cent already presents the full vaccination. All over the world, more than 160_million cases have been reported, more than three and a half million deaths, and now more than 105,000 people are entering critical states in different countries. One of the most affected countries is India, and we celebrate this help from Catalonia. Let us never forget that behind every one of these figures there are people, there are families, there are empty lives and there are broken dreams. Each of these figures we're remembering today has a lot of pain and a lot of patience. All countries have suffered from this pandemic, even though not all countries have responded in the same way or with the same results. Unfortunately, the Spanish State is one of the worst figures in terms of results, both health and economic. I'm not saying, they're saying all the independent studies on the subject. At our home, for the time being, we've already had four, five, on Lleida, which we often don't forget and the summer passed to Lleida's plane the situation was very difficult. May I remind you now that we have to organize and manage a lot better this fruit season, which fortunately we have cows to do so. I started saying that the management of this crisis, which we did not have before, has been very complex, but today we are also here to say what we believe has not been done well, what we believe could have been done better, of a pandemic that has not yet ended – as we know, as all health professionals know. Without any doubt, it was the first time those months of March to May 2020, which was an evil, which many of us would never have wanted to have experienced. And I'm talking about the management as mayor, and the health professional as well in the most complicated days, where we all gave a little bit of a hand even though it wasn't our specialty or our current activity. But that first wave, on Madrid took over the health skills of the Generalitat, the mistakes were important. The first was precisely this, managing health skills; managing a crisis of this magnitude from a ministry that does not have the care skills in Catalonia was a wrong unforgivable. A study commissioned by the WHO to different experts and which was just made public yesterday, concluded in a very strong way that the response of all authorities and the same WHO was very late, and that they also lost some precious days to cope with the pandemic. Also in the Spanish State, where neither the situation nor the alarming data of Italy made us react. Later, home confinement was incomprehensiblely delayed; mass. There is a study that says that a confinement made five days before what was done – not fifteen days as President Torra asked, but five days – would have avoided more than twenty thousand deaths. Probably the worst thing we remember from the first wave of health professionals and residents is the lack of protective material to protect themselves. The lack of PPE was a real drama, and centralizing the purchase from Madrid, or rather, not buying it, was a capital mistake. This first wave has left us the horrific figures that we all remember. Full ICUs and triple the beds available in Catalonia, more than half of the deaths we unfortunately regret the last fifteen months for these first two months. Those first two months were a hell of a time, and just closing us home and with the effort and dedication of all our health care providers we were able, at least, to pass the page. And I can't help but comment on the gap we've experienced and we're living with the pandemic data. In a situation like this, transparency is fundamental. And that a study by the University of Washington concludes that the Spanish State has not notified 45_percent of actual covid deaths is inadmissible. After this first wave, the government of Pedro Sánchez and Minister Illa decided to centrifuge the responsibilities and that it was the communities that decided, who assumed, the responsibility. But they forgot to share resources; and managing this crisis with one hand connected to the desktop is extremely complicated, as it has been. But there have also been mistakes in managing it in Catalonia, and I think it is essential to make self-criticism in order to find solutions that prevent it from repeating a situation that we cannot allow to happen again. For us, the main learnings we have to gather were: u, not knowing how to value quickly and knowing how to anticipate the situation that lived in the residences. And that makes us see how important a model change is to our great people's attention. Do not count on the pharmacies for the pandemic's attention or do not count enough with the pharmacies. They're a vital health sector and we haven't been able to take advantage of them. They can perfectly participate in the diagnostic with the antigen tests or with PCR autosamples. These antique tests should also serve to maintain more open activities, help maintain activities in different sectors, such as restoration, culture, sport... We know that they diagnose the most contagious cases; we need to take advantage of them more. We also need to make self-criticism in the tracking system, while also studying contacts of positive cases. It is clear that this is the result of an epidemiological surveillance system that was not designed to cope with a pandemic of these dimensions. And finally, I cannot fail to claim, as we have always done from Lleida, from Pirinius and from the Lands of the Hebrews, that restrictive measures should be based, obviously and as it cannot be in any other way, on the health and epidemiological data of every moment, but also on the demographic data. If the goal is to reduce social interaction, minimize contacts, it does not feel like doing the same measurements in Barcelona, with seven_ thousand_inhabitants_per_square meter, that in the Pyrenees with thirteen_inhabitants_per_square meter. Municipal confinement, and even the whole district, didn't feel good about Catalonia. There are peoples of the Pyrenees where we find ourselves with someone, a normal day. Therefore, if I can again apply restrictive measures, which I hope and wish are not so, then I will once again claim that they are territorial. Obviously, not all of these resources that have been allocated to the pandemic have not been able to provide the necessary assistance to the rest of the care activity, such as chronic patient control or diagnosis and treatment of the rest of the disease. And this is in addition to an increase in mental illness, which has increased in an alarming way by winging and viscous situations, which Vice President Aragones also shared, not to mention the tiredness and burnout of health professionals after managing this situation. This pandemic has demonstrated more than ever the urgency of reformulating our health system. The foundations of what was called the Catalan health model, which was successful, were laid at the length of the 1980s, but an endemicly inadequate funding has put up against the ropes. And that has now been shown by the cove-19, where it has been seen that only the excellence of our professionals makes the system resist. It is essential to restore the confidence of health professionals and, therefore, to change health policies significantly, to improve the participation of health professionals in these health policies, improving salaries, but also involving them in the management, in line with the document of the 30 measures to strengthen the health system developed for the Committee of Experts for the Transformation of the Public Health System on September of the past year. This committee of experts calls for an investment of €5,000_million over the next three years and, with this, enhance public health with a real-time epidemiological surveillance system, strengthen primary care, enhance professional leadership, enhance the autonomy of primary care teams, enhance the role of the infirmary, transform research and health innovation into a more efficient and competitive model. A change of model is essential in the attention of our great people, a real focus on the person who gives the highest priority to the personal autonomy of our great people and adapts to the different degrees of dependence. And there's also a plan to get back all the activity from the rest of the pathologies that couldn't be done – and it's not easy to do it with professionals who haven't been able to rest all this year – and especially in mental health for patients, but also for our professionals. I remember: the positive data are the cows. Again, our recognition to the infirmary which, together with the staff, are the pillars of this successful campaign. And let me also acknowledge Dr. Argimon and his entire team from the consulting department and the department for planning this cattle logistics. The effectiveness of the cows is very high and, in the vaccinated collections, the reduction of infections, hospitalizations, ICU admissions and deaths is simply spectacular. It is an excellent news the beginning of the vaccination of the timers throughout the fruit campaign of Lleida, a news that we congratulate. However, the release of the AstraZeneca vaccine did not help. What I would ask who is responsible is that if we have a European Medicines Agency we trust the European Medicines Agency. We trust science. Science has managed to make very effective cows for a very short time, we trust them. These data, too, wanted to end them with economic and social data that the pandemic has entailed, but Vice President Aragones very well passed them with this rate of attunement, with this youthful trek, without counting all the ERTOs. It is obvious that the confinement, that the closure of negotiations without practical help from which the total practice of taxes, such as the Spanish State, has led to these numbers, behind which we do not forget that there are families and that there are people. Catalonia has given aid to different sectors from the first day and for a value of 1,800_million euros, the vice president reminded us, almost 50_percent of the total aid that has given the rest of autonomy. Also many municipalities in the measure of our possibilities have given aid to different sectors. Meanwhile, the Spanish State has trigat more than a year to give aid that, in the case of Catalonia, represents 993_million euros, half of what the Government of Catalonia has donated. It wasn't the time to make the autonomes and the families in debt, it wasn't the time to make businesses close and grow; it was the time for those who were indebted to the State, not the families. All the blind locked up will cost a lot to open and the big challenge was to get that it's not tankerssin. That's not what the Spanish State was up to either. And now we have the opportunity to initiate recovery with European foundations, with the foundations of transformation and regeneration, the Next Generation. It is true that they are an exceptional opportunity, probably unrepeatable, to finance with European resources the transformation and modernization of our economy, but before the State changes its role with which it always looks at European foundations: they are not European foundations for Madrid. They are investments designed for recovery first and transformation later. And, as a result, he specified it in planning and management. For this reason, it is essential that the administrations closest to the city participate in the management of the funds and I am not speaking only of the Government of Catalonia, I am also speaking of the joints and the regional councils. In Catalonia, they've done their dues. We've got the projects. We know where resources are most needed and where they will have the deepest and most transformative impact. Only if we participate in it will we be able to work because Catalonia, which generates 19 % of the GDP of the Spanish State, is there something that no longer agrees with it, but with its strength and the competitiveness of our proposals. And these projects must serve to work for the equity of the whole territory, with projects that favor the repopulation of 80_percent of the Catalan territory, that balance a territory and that offer opportunities for all our youth of all points of the country, also of the Pyrenees. We cannot lose the opportunity that the pandemic puts us ahead of transforming our health system, the attention of our large people and our economy with transformative and regenerating projects throughout the country. But this is complicated right now, because, as the very honorable President Quim Torra writes to his book The Hard Hours, this crisis has cleared up Catalan autonomy. He'll be naked, to the people. It's unsustainable. We have 52 percent of the votes. Go ahead and put it down. You're urgent. It is for the health professionals, for all the people of Catalonia, for our great people, for the future of the young man of the country of all the towns and villages. As I said, as all the data we've been through this afternoon, we're moving forward with folds to put it back on. It is urgent and our hand is extended to make the government that the ballot boxes have recommended to us, which advances towards independence and amnesty. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.224.0	And now, once all the representatives of all the parliamentary groups and sub-groups have spoken, the government can intervene to answer, if that is what it wants. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.225.0	Many thanks, very honorable President of Parliament. Honourable Councillors and Councillors, illustrious Members and Members of Parliament, in this response intervention, I will try to comment on some of the aspects that Members and Members have moved into the debate that we have maintained. A debate that I suspected there might be this risk of entry, but which you all have confirmed to me: investment debate bis, control sessions not to a government in office, control sessions to a candidate, use of what parliamentary control should be to a government in office to position itself – some – before any repetition of elections they would want. (Founding voice) It won't be – it won't be. I am convinced that the vast majority of this Parliament, which emerged from the ballot box on February 14, in favour of self-determination and amnesty, in favour of economic and social reconstruction will not let go of opportunity. So, that's what I wanted to make clear. I thank the words and the whole of most interventions. In some, it's obvious that it can't be like this, but I mean that most people, so I can appreciate the amount and a point of co-responsibility in the health, economic and social situation that the country suffers. And beginning with the intervention of the deputy of the Socialist Party, Mr Illa, I therefore thank the offer of support in those areas, therefore, in the health field, in the field of European foundations; and therefore, I take the word from it. Yes, I'd like to make some comments, I mean, you've made reference to difficult political times. The difficult political moments are those of the country. Our individual situation has no bearing on the challenges facing the country and this situation we have, which we must be able to overcome. From here, some comments on the intervention of Mr. Illa. You offered me the support to have more resources in the health field. Look, I'm making a proposal that I've been moving on these days to all those in charge of professional colleges in the health field with whom I've had the opportunity to meet. The extraordinary covid fund, from the past year... – which I believe, despite the fact that I felt that it had to be bigger, in any case it was a good initiative and a good proposal, and I have no problem in recognizing it –, we placed around 25,000_millions of people in need in order to reach a correct coverage of the group of governments like ours, in the end it was 16,000_millions, but in any case, they have allowed 2020 to have a presuppositionary increase in healthcare spending of 2,000_millions. These have been extraordinary resources. I propose that it is jointly leading that these 2,000_million that have arrived in Catalonia, but that they have also arrived in a similar quantity and have been destined in a quantity similar to the rest of the territories of the State, do not remain an extraordinary question but it is consolidating. It's simple; we don't ask for resources that are only for Catalonia. It is a proposal that I believe everyone can accept and that we should be able to cover the first stretch of this 5,000_million increase in health care that the group of health economists, like Guillem López Casasnovas, has placed on the table in an investigation, in a research that has counted on the endorsement of the Metges College and other health schools. And I believe that it is an absolutely economically affordable proposal that must allow us to take the first step in reforming the resources allocated in the field of salvation. Because, obviously, all the setbacks we have in the structural sphere of salvation... we suffer from chronic underfunding. These resources are, in the case of Catalonia, supported by the citizens of Catalonia and, therefore, it is as simple as to reproduce what was extraordinary in 2020 destined for the field of salvation, to reproduce it from now on. And I don't think we're going into any kind of strange battle here. In the field of European foundations. On May 19, we made the sectoral conference on the mechanism of recovery and resilience. And there was a finding there by representatives of the Ministry of History and the leaders of each government that is close to coordinating these issues. And the summary of the meeting is that there are no clear procedures on the part of the Government of the State relating to the European Fund and the major transformational projects; there are no public criteria, above all for which it refers to the LOSS, and there is a risk of arbitrariness that we need to be able to eliminate, there are significant deficiencies in planning on the part of the Government of the State that can hinder implementation. I would like to remind you that we have made a decree that you have brought to this Parliament to speed up the administration of the Generality in the matter of the creation of the consortia to be carried out in order to apply the European foundations, in the matter of speeding up what must be the contract and also focusing it on small and medium-sized enterprises. We all agree that these foundations must not go to those big corporations that have other financing mechanisms, but must come to the country's fabric of production, and that means also, and above all, to small and medium-sized enterprises and the country's social economy. What we find is that this decree law, which validated this Chamber, which also held the support of members of the Socialist Party, is at risk of being challenged by the Spanish Government. You would offer me cooperation. You ask him, so... you tell me: "Let's go wherever you want. Don't you? Listen, look, I don't think I'm going anywhere, I guess I can grab the phone and pull the threat out of this unconstitutionality appeal. Because it's done, it's a decree done exclusively to speed up the execution of the Next Generation funds. So, I think we have... well, and there's a whole agenda of proposals that, by taking his offer of support, we need to be able to do, and that will obviously reverse, in which is the welfare of this country's citizens. In the realm of public services, which is one of the great lessons that the pandemic has reminded us of, that at the most complicated time in our collective life of the past decades, there have been public services that have saved us, they have been at what is shared, that welfare state that we have been able to build is what has saved us and what we must be able to improve. And you asked me again, in this appearance of the candidate – because it turned into this – a step on the side. I think that when you ask me a step along is because of your political inability to take a step forward, because of the lack of support you have. If I was not the only possible candidate to agree with the results of the 14th February and the availability of the groups to arrive at agreements, you have already taken this step forward. I don't ask myself, you make 'lvostè, el pas, if it counts with support. And I think it's obvious that it doesn't count for hours now, with these supports, or at least with me, probably, right? [[Widow's remorse.]] And we are... Yes, you were doing this with the head, but it's that the PSC is a lot of fun, the truth, because they say to us: "We..., that the veto is passed! But we don't want independence. They take a step to the side, but I don't make a step to the front. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, I don't know, it's like, you're more thinking about trying to play Russian roulette, see if' look, a repetition of the elections, I've been at the barrier looking at me today I didn't rush, I can benefit, that's not for anything else. So I think we need to be more serious. If you want to take the step forward and report to the Presidency of the Generality, look for the support – look for the support – but don't ask the others that we are working to have it withdrawn, because we also defend a legitimate political project, obviously – obviously. So, I think we need to be a little serious about this. You ask me a step at the side because you, politically, do not have the opportunity to take a step forward. For what he does to VOX's representative, I don't know, I think all of his intervention is summed up in this idea, finally, very definite of his political program and his ideology, which is why we decide, because it's a shared global responsibility, to help India with sanitary material, which means that we're bringing in our health care providers. So, this absurdity has concentrated all your political thinking in one sentence, and a political thinking in which data doesn't matter, in which only low passions matter, in which only anxiety matters, in order to be exploited politically to precisely impose everything you supposedly denounce, right? , to impose inequality, to impose the difference in rights, to impose a society with first-class citizens and second-class citizens. There is one thing I will always fight: when you speak of addoctrination to the Catalan schools, are you saying that the 117,398 teachers of this country are serving a political cause? Are they saying that the teachers we trust the families in the education of our daughters and our children are under the program of a political party? I don't think so. If they are under any cause, it is that our children, the children of this country, the young people and adolescents of this country can have a future plethora of opportunities. And, therefore, from here, despite the accusations of indoctrination, I would like to reconstitute a whole collection that is also essential to our country, that are the teachers of this country and that during these months also government in function they kept the open schools thanks also to their commitment. [[Some applause.]] For what it does to the UPC, I think that the intervention of the deputy Cornellà..., coincide in many aspects, especially that the pandemic has accelerated some trends of foundations that we have been living in our economic system and in our society and that has shown even more the need to do it to reverse them. Some trends based on the growth of inequalities, of job insecurity, which are also consequences of a transformation of the product model, which is changing our way of producing, distributing, consuming and if it can generate new opportunities it is also generating new inequalities and therefore it is a step forward from public institutions, not only at the national level, as our case is, but also at the global level in order to govern it differently and govern it at the service of the majority. The Catalan economy is a diversified economy, much more diversified now – much more diversified – than before..., than in 2007, before the great recession. It is true, as you said, that there are sectors that depend a lot on social interaction and international mobility, such as tourism and also a good part of trade, that have been hard hit by covid-19 and that, therefore, it is more necessary than ever a new industrial policy. We've got the National Industry Pact, it's over. I want to make a new one and I want to make it much more ambitious. And we will also have the opportunity to do so with more resources linked to the European Fund. Therefore, I believe that, in this, we are taking a step forward in order to be able to do so. There must also be a clear commitment to social rescue on this political agenda to change the product model. And I believe that here we have proposals and agreements in this line – and now more in the area of what we have set up as an investment agreement – in the area of social rescue, economic change and the defence of the rights and centrality of public services, which we must set aside the Social Rescue Plan of €700 million; it must be implemented with the utmost agility. And I agree with you in a phrase that I believe is the one that guided this government's economic policy in function and government, let's just say, when it was in full function before this health crisis. He said: "Never more detail. In this chamber, in all the interventions on economic policy in the field of covid-19, in my condition as an economic adviser, I always made it very clear that we would get out of it on the contrary of the economic policies that had been applied in the previous crisis, with a much larger public role, with more public expenditure, obviously well-directed – well-directed – with an investment aimed at transforming the model of production and with a defence of public services, right? And, moreover, today the trend of good part of the changes in economic policy that are occurring at the international level go on this path. A lot of times we can stay in nice phrases, that's right. There is the risk that I only stayed in a relationship and is not transformed into concrete policies; that is, at the international level. But I think that we need to get to grips with this precisely because we are accompanied and the paradigm is changed that we cannot manage this crisis from the idea of austerity, but precisely from the idea of more public involvement, more involvement and more collective decision-making, and a protagonist role of governments like the Government of the Generality, such as the governments of the states, in the economy, to generate innovation that comes to everyone, to generate equal opportunities and to generate new jobs. The intervention of the representative of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, of the deputy Cid..., has made a whole list; it has tried to ask me in which it will be propitious to a debate of investiture. I think so. And, in fact, he did it with a lot of insistence. I think when he was talking about a bi-investigation debate, he was thinking about his intervention. There was one thing he said: "And you..., have to bear the cost of decisions. So that's what I deny. Because if one thing we have done for this government in function is to assume the cost of decisions; the cost is not only in reputational terms, in electoral terms, in terms of political criticism, but also the cost it costs to be able to find resources to put on the table when decisions involving a restriction of activity have been made. It is not for us to assume the cost of decisions. It doesn't make us for people or anything. That's why we haven't resigned at any time of our responsibilities, that's why we've mobilized more resources than ever – more resources than ever. And I remember the parliamentary debates that were here when it came to whether or not we allocated sufficient resources. I don't know, if they were enough, but we've been the ones we haven't destined for, sure. I'll give them back. The data we have compiled from the Generality can be taken from the State grant registers: EUR 230 per inhabitant before a mid-eighty. Or you can take some of the..., of Fedea, for example, which published a report with this relationship and which, with a lower proportion, but says that Catalonia was at the forefront and that it duplicated what had been the medium of aid for which it does to the productive sectors that had made the autonomous communities at the level of the whole State. And, therefore, I believe that this also needs to be made manifest. I think we don't have to make a competition from which you see faster or not the corporate committees affected by ERTO. Anyway, if you want us to do this competition, you say they went there a month ago, right? Well, I went on March 11th. So... we went there, with Councilman El Homrani, we were working, and he was also working the department throughout the media because in a very complicated situation it was possible to reach the most favorable agreement for the workforce linked to reindustrialisation. And, therefore, it is now at the time of the reindustrialisation that the Department of Enterprise engages much more intensively. And I ask them not to give up their ability to change things, not to give up their ability to inflate and make this vast majority possible. I don't think we can give up. I will continue to insist, I am very persistent and, therefore, I will continue to insist on the need for you not to give up, not to leave. And I think we have to bravely face what must be the new stage that the country has to create. The deputy of Ciutadans..., well, I think there has been a repetition of many of the debates... I will address myself, therefore, to... I will not be able to address Mr Carrizosa – whom I celebrate, therefore, as we all have to do when we have the opportunity, which can be vaccinated – but Mr Martín Blanco. I'm heading to him and he'll get Mr. Carrizosa to my appreciation. But there has been a repetition of many of the topics, of the common places to which Ciutadans has accustomed this past legislature: in this appearance on the health, economic and social situation and on the European foundations, they have been more time talking about the process, of hispanophobia, of TV3 and of the little bars you who do not mention the small mention that I could make in a paragraph at the end of my forty-five minute intervention. So, if some people like to talk about it all the time, it's still you. But only two ideas. When you... when your company asked us to give up our project, to give up our planning, no, we won't give up. I will keep my proposal, the independentist proposal to move forward with the Catalan Republic, to do so through the exercise of the right to self-determination, to bet that this exercise is through a reference given and fully recognized in which all parties can express themselves. And, win who wins, I'll defend the outcome of this reference. And that's how it goes so that we can have all the instruments that this society has to have so that we can have a shared future project and a window of well-being for the city as a whole. And they've applied for two resignations. We don't accept them. Nor will the Vergés Councillor resign nor will the Argimon secretary resign, because they have done a constant job during all these months in the fight against the pandemic and must continue to work in all that remains before. And a finding. They said: "At zero entrances – referring to the autonomous –, "zero taxes. The way to apply this is that we can manage all taxes. A newer contradiction, unless you've made yourself independent, which I suspect not. For what he does to the People's Party, well, I think that in his case, too, sadly, there has been a session of control of the candidate, a appearance of the candidate, not a appearance of the vice-presidency of the government in function. But there is one thing that... beyond that, and that, therefore, I think is already given answer to all folded, I think we need to eat the right data – I think we need to eat the right data. And for what you do at health expense... you can take the expenditure on GDP. When there is a much higher per capita GDP, obviously healthcare spending in relation to GDP will be smaller. In that report which you mentioned, the health expenditure of the Community of Madrid, its great example, and its whole party, in relation to GDP, is lower than in Catalonia. Because GDP per capita is what is respected by the state average. They're math. But in any case, more than that, more than that. When you accused the Generality of having a health expense, therefore, much less than the rest I refer to the data published by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health regarding the health expense. The latest publications are from 2019, before the pandemic. State midjana, expenditure per inhabitant; expenditure per inhabitant, state midjana: 1,486_euros per inhabitant; Catalunya, 1,515. On the other hand... the freedom of bars: 1,340 euros from the Community of Madrid, which is its project. So, for many years you've been following these results here, because it means that your project doesn't apply and we'll have a project that really values public health and makes a bet for social policies. [[Greetings.]] I would like to thank the intervention of Mr Ernest Maragall, always with this vision of keeping the country at its head. I think it's important to be able to put an end to all the transformation policies that the Member has drawn and that we share, right? And, therefore, I want to thank the trust, I want to thank the support that the Republican Left Group has shown to all members of the government in office during all these months. And so, when we start the new stage, I am convinced that this support will still be much more decisive. Finally, respect the deputy Jordi Fàbrega, from Juntes, for his intervention there are different aspects that I think are interesting. First of all, there are people and families behind bars, and I think we should never forget that, especially when we talk about the pandemic. I don't think we should ever forget that. Mass people have suffered and mass people are still patenting, to treat it frivolously. You didn't do it. And I think that I've underrated this is important. For what he does to Lleida's fruit season, he has been working intensely, also with the locals he has been doing..., basically the Health Department, the Department of Treball, the Department of Agriculture, but also the rest of the government departments we have been collaborating with, under the coordination of the government delegate to Lleida, and I think we can deal with it with many better conditions than what is the campaign of the past year. There have been mistakes, obviously. I didn't come here to make a triumphal vision of pandemic management, because no government can do that. We look at the percentages of vaccination... One month and a half ago, we looked at the percentages of vaccination in Israel, but we forgot how Israel had managed some of the events that had led to extraordinary resurgences that had assumed the shutdown of new schools and a situation of col·lapse in the country. We noticed, during the first wave of the pandemic, how they managed the pandemic and had the tracking system in Germany, and we have seen how they have now passed, they are passing, a winter and a spring extremely difficult. There aren't a few here that are more magical than the rest. This pandemic has such a big impact, it's so hard and it's badly so strong that there's no government that I can go out and display a full of immaculate servants. We've all made mistakes. The important thing is the learnings, and the learnings are the ones that have made the second and the third one have been able to contain more quickly and with less damage than the first, and with more help for the affected sectors. We have made Catalonia and other governments have made it. But we have had this learning, especially in the most vulnerable places; especially, for example, in the area of large people's residences. And thanks also to this learning what some might have seen almost as a fourth wave remained as a small alteration. After Holy Week, and thanks to vaccination, thanks to the advent of science, and thanks also to the compromise of all, today we are facing much more security and we are facing the principle of fi. And I think that's good, very good news. Also one of the learnings is that we had a system of residences that did not have governance as such, that had been built very quickly, and that what had been done was..., basically there were some government support actions, the inspection part, substantive, but also, basically, a collaboration in substituting places, and public places that allowed, therefore, the access of many people who needed these services in the final stage of their life. But we need to move on to system governance. And I think this is one of the great lessons of this pandemic. What does governance mean? It means not just setting objectives, not just a public policy where everyone is involved, all the services in the residential care area, but also shared ones, which have had to be built in a hurry and currents, which have taken place together from the social and health care areas and which I believe we still need to strengthen much more. And a compromise. Reference has been made to the lost care activity. One of the hidden costs, but which is very clearly visualized with many people's experiences, is that every person who enters the ICU means that there is not one that can't enter; it means that there are high-complexity surgical interventions that are to be expected, that those that are programmed and that are not extraordinarily urgent make them wait. And that, therefore, does not only pose a risk to the salvation of people, or continuing a risk, but it extends in many cases a lot of patience that could be solved. Other minor-complexity interventions, when you've got all the health personnel engaged in an objective, putting a stop to the pandemic..., which is the ordinary activity has had to stop banding. This has led to an increase in the waiting lists. I, therefore, must approach it. In fact, we are already approaching this with the extraordinary plan that we approved in September, in which CatSalut was reinforced – I think it was 140_million in two years or three, I think I remember; I am talking about memory–, in which precisely the extraordinary contract that had been made for the covid-19 in our healthcare system is maintained precisely in order to be able to reverse these lists of hope, because once the pandemic is over, it will continue to struggle for the salvation of everyone. Thank you all. Very nice late. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.226.0	Now, again, representatives of parliamentary groups can also exercise their right to reply for a maximum of five minutes. In the first place, Mr. Salvador Illa, of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.227.0	Mr. Aragonès, Vice-President in office of President, in view of the success of the announcements, went a step further and went to confessions: I do not play anything, neither when I do politics, nor when I do not do it, and less in the roulette, Russian or Catalan. It seems that some are playing there, on the coast of the country. ( Some applause.) Certainly, remember – remember – that you do not have the confidence of this chamber. This chamber came out of the 14th of February elections. You've addressed yourself twice to gain confidence and to be invested as president; you haven't. I haven't tried it yet, not out of unwillingness – not out of unwillingness. He asked me to take a step forward; the winner from the 14th of February to the night. You've tried it twice, and you haven't. I haven't tried it yet; I demand to be able to do it, effectively, is what I said, as the winner of these elections. It is the Catalans who decided to give more political, more forceful, more votes to my candidacy. ( Some applause.) According to the question, according to the question I wanted to comment on. I believe that they have already seen themselves in the course of this appearance and of the subsequent interventions of the representatives of the two attitudes groups, two great attitudes: the attitude of the veto and the toilet and the attitude of the extended hand. I'm honest when I tell you that you have a policy of self-extension in the struggle against covid-19 and in the maximum profit... in working together to profit from European foundations. And you can decide what you're doing with this offer I made here. Now, please follow'mhonest; do not ask me for an extraordinary financing of 16,000_million euros to lost funds to be ordinary for each year. You know, you know perfectly well, you are a public manager who, well, carries years already in the public service; you know perfectly well that there are things that if you want us to take seriously what you ask, you, in any case, cannot offer us. You want me to help you so there are no competition conflicts with the Government of Spain. And as long as I do! Let's share before, because I'll guarantee you with my comments that everything that fits in with the current legal framework, which is the best way we have to build together to get through all the folds. Third thing I wanted to say, and I don't say that much for you. You've had some expressions of humility, of running away from the cophoism that I share. And I've seen it in the first line, very much in the first line – very much in the first line – and I think it's the right attitude. But I've seen in some of the comments from some people who have pushed this phony an excess of cophoism, a lack of humility, and a lack of loyalty and coordination. I still see some interventions that are more likely to clear up what Spain has not done well, the toilet, and not to recognize that we have worked together, and that has served all this pandemic process, painfully painful for all, has served to strengthen governance mechanisms. It may seem to you that this is not the way you want to go to Catalonia. That's what I'm talking about. But at least, please, we're on a pandemic, we're still in the middle of a pandemic. So many toilets? So much so that we have worked together to make a European vaccination plan and that Spain – yes, Spain – brings the cows here to Catalonia? How much does that cost? And I'm not saying that much for you, am I? And some, of course, have lacked a bit of elegance, which does not cost so much – it does not cost so much – as I have to acknowledge that the health authorities of Catalonia act correctly. It doesn't cost so much to be an elegant point in the middle of a pandemic when you're listening to us all over the country. Many thanks, Mr Aragonès; many thanks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.228.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Illa. Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, Mr. Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.229.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, Mr Aragonès, I am pleased that you have finally understood the substance of our ideology, of our approaches, in short, of the project that we have come to offer to all Catalans from the institutions. And it is none other than to defend an orderly solidarity, to defend the rights and freedoms of all Catalans, and that solidarity well understood, that orderly solidarity comes first to defend Catalans against those who come illegally. That said, you were talking about indoctrination. He says: "Teachers in Catalonia do not indoctrinate. Indeed, we have magnificent professionals, no doubt, but you know well that in many schools we have those political commissioners installed by all of you for decades that condition the governing bodies of the schools, that condition the history that is taught in the schools and that drive that project, eh? , who led the boss of the Mafia years ago, Mr Pujol, with that evil so-called « process of linguistic immersion that what is really a project of separatist immersion. And that project, without going any further..., recently the data protection authority opened seven sanctioning files to some institutes that casually asked in schools whether or not they felt independent. This is the educational project that you have been developing for decades in Catalonia and in which from now on you will find a containment dam to stop you from moving forward on your totalitarian agenda. Look, Mr Aragonès, we are of course committed to the state of well-being, and we will do everything possible to make that state of well-being grow for the benefit of all Catalans and Spaniards, but be very clear that we are radically against the state of well-being that you have been creating for decades, in which you are perfectly protected and the Catalans, abandoned. Because you have come today to talk about the economic, social crisis, the health emergency, but there is a recent report from a body that is not suspected of joining our political party – without going any further, the Autonomous University of Barcelona – which literally says that you invest five times more in your separatist agenda than in helping companies; five times more in your separatist project than in helping the companies that you have condemned to ruin and misery. That's your economic revival project, that's your social policy project, Mr. Aragonès. And, in short, if you want to put an end to the genuine and convinced health, social and economic emergency suffered by our compatriots, then get to work. Reduce, for example, the budget of the foreign office, with a budget of 17_million_of_euro; reduce, for example, the more than five hundred high offices for which they are fighting cainitously with their Junts colleagues. In short, stop investing more than 1,100_million in all those organizations that you have been creating in recent decades. And I'm not going to call them chiringuitos, so as not to give you any more reason so that you can make jokes here and become playful, no, no. In these entities, yes, participated by the Generalitat..., and do not demagogue, do not talk about hospitals, no, no. You know what we're talking about, all those bodies that are in the middle of that fake negotiation that, as I said, ultimately, what is a sharing of armchairs, prebendas, high positions and high salaries. What a shame they have to endure the Catalans and what a shame they will have to endure throughout this legislature. But I want to tell you that you are not alone, that you will have a political formation, such as VOX, that you will defend your rights, that you will defend your freedoms, that you will denounce your trophies and that you will continue to demand that you reduce unnecessary political spending once and for all and that you will really dedicate it to the social and economic emergencies that society as a whole demands. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.230.0	Mr. Garriga, one more time I have to ask you to read the code of conduct, because you have again violated Article 7.3 of this code. He spoke of "totalitarian agenda; they ask him to also refresh the dictionary and look at what totalitarianism is. He spoke of the head of the mafia. He has made statements that they are not close to this Parliament and that, moreover, they are against the presumption of innocence. So I'm going to ask you again to read the code of conduct. Thank you. [[Ignacio Garriga Vaz de Concicao asks to speak.]] Yeah, why ask me the word? [[Ignacio Garriga Vaz de Concicao intervenes without using the microphone.]] No, it's not about allusions. The presidency of Parliament has attributed the function of the direction of how the Ple is determined. And I remind you that section 7.3 of your code of conduct today, with your statements, did not take it into account. It is of binding character and ask that if you please take this into account in your interventions. Thank you. [[Ignacio Garriga Vaz de Concicao intervenes without using the microphone.]] You don't have the word, Mr. Garriga. I gave him this recommendation. Thank you. Then there is the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, the deputy Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.231.0	Thank you, President. Vice President-in-Office, Members, first a quick acclaim: when it comes to orderly solidarity, it is about extreme right-wing policies and it is about, on the part of defenders of marquises and rickets, how to still steal more from the poor. And that's the orderly solidarity. That said, unfortunately, we have to say that this intervention by the Government has stopped us, and we have to reiterate what we said in this last legislature, that the Government in office does not enjoy the confidence of our candidacy. That said, comment on some elements that seem to us to be of use. First of all, in the health field, more detail seems to us to be an approach that must already be taken, and we need to go much further and we need to go much further into transformative policies. And that's not what we see in this government working. I would also like to say, in respect of the European Fund, that we are talking deeply about a transformation project linked to green hydrogen, an absolutely inefficient energy and a speculative bomb in the hands of IBEX 35, such as Naturgy, which, for the only one it serves, is to continue with non-democratic control of energy and, therefore, does not suppose any transformation. To say also that in the area of housing it seems to us that this government in function has tools, and has tools to start to make strong policies in the area of housing, such as the Law of 2007 on storm and retraction and on empty floors, which is fifteen years ago and has not yet stood in a serious way. And from this point on, we find ourselves with an element that we repeated and repeated on today and that generates a deep discomfort, which is the situation of the habitation. And it seems to us that it can be, if not, frivolous to talk about increasing the possibility of consumption of land, when we don't even have guaranteed land for a large part of the population. This element seems to us to be phonental, when, as Dani said, we have from 2020 fifteen or seven daily appointments – diaris. We're not going to want seven thousand in this past year and a half. From here we find ourselves with situations where we found ourselves the other day at the Raval, where an absolutely brutal action of the Squadron Mosses ended up with five people in detention, with various wounded people and with a family more without a home. And this is the situation that we're living in right now, and this is the problem that we have with the table, and this is one of the reasons why we can't trust this government as it works. From here the guest, vice president in office, looks at the images of that denunciation. The moves were recording, so let's hope they made these images easier for him. Otherwise, I've got it too. As we also expect, to the Interior, which also forms part of this Government, Mr. Samper, which also facilitates the protocol on hunger which has finally been facilitated by a legal empire and by an obligation of the Transparency Commission to a means of communication, but in its parliamentary office it is not yet made easier. From here, which also eases all the data that we have already asked the Government in office, on how many particular accusations the Generalitat has against demonstrators, which are not made easier, on which cases the law has applied in violation of the right of demonstration, which is not made easier. Unfortunately, we also regret that, as a result of an attestation of fantasies on the part of the Mossos d'Esquadra, a warrant for the arrest of Laia Estrada was issued today by the High Court of Justice. We know that there have been managements to prevent this arrest, we ask that they do managements to prevent the arrest of any political activist. It is not because we are Members or Members that we must have privileges and defend the right to protest. From here, I would like to end with a message of hope, that we believe it is the message of hope that gives us the organized people who are defending labor rights, who are defending the right to housing day by day, and we hope that this government in office, from now on, is standing next to the people and not against it; it is able to defend trade union rights, and not to avoid the social conflict negotiating with the employer, and it is able, as a minimum, not to stifle the people who with their self-organisation are hindering disclaimers and guaranteeing the right to a habitat, since this government in office is not doing so. Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, Members of Parliament. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.232.0	Next is the words of Mr David Cid, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.233.0	Thank you, President. I think it's true that Catalonia has a great capacity for innovation. I think Catalan politics would say that it is almost leading this capacity for innovation in Catalonia, because, I don't know, today I've seen how to rule without seeing that it's in government. Actually, I've seen a master class. This morning, and I'm not saying that for you, Mr. Aragones, but this morning Mr. Batet asking for an audit of the administration to the Generality, as if you had not been to the Council of Government of this Government, and this late a deputy of Junts for Catalonia, Mr. Fàbrega, said that he did not agree with the management of the district or territorial confinement for old age or metropolity, which was said by Mr. Sàmper – I suppose he was leaving to not listen – because... ( The Interior Counselor says: "No, no, I'm not leaving for this. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. But, anyway, it's the one who leads the Procicate that's his own game. Next thing you know, it's amazing. So, me, Mr. Aragonès, I plan it. In fact, I'm intuiting a new innovation. I've seen a lot of discussion about who would lead the opposition, haven't I? , in this new legislature. Miri, with all due respect to the President, but I believe that who will lead the opposition in the future Government of Catalonia will be the President of the Parliament. I'm... I'm telling you right now; I'm just saying, I'm excited, for what it's going to be like, huh? , in a new innovation of Catalan policy. And I address Mr. Aragones, but I also address Mr. Illa. With all due respect, but I think they're tired and I think we're tired. And look, if I'm tired, and I also see how Parliament's press is and who follows the parliamentary current, I just want to think about how people are at home who aren't up at the end of the month, who just ask us to protect them, how tired they are of what happens in these four pairs or in the Parliament of Catalonia. Because everyone knows the stage there is. And the problem is that we make a public speech and a private speech, and the results of the 14th of February are clear, and the positions of the different parties define the possible playing field. And there's only three scenes, and that's what everybody knows. And the problem is that we make one speech in private and one in public, and there are only three scenes, which is: a government of resignation, of more than the same, of Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra, that is, no? I've already explained it, haven't I? And they're more likely to see that they're not part of the government and all these years and coming; electoral repetition, or a Republican and Common Left government. And there's no other sceners. And I have made them a very concrete proposal, which is a compromise of the Catalan left, which is basically a compromise of minimums, which is to open a new stage. What do you mean, send Junts to Catalonia for opposition? Two: raise the vetoes between the political forces of the left, which does not pass anywhere else in Europe. And the third is that votes are not a trophy. Votes are switchboards, they're not a trophy at nobody's house. And that means taking advantage of the opportunities, the window of opportunity to open, too, the windows of this Parliament. And it's not true that I've only made him an investiture. You also made reference, Mr Aragonès, to the political situation, but I have asked you very concrete questions about the government's management in these months. I asked him if you agree or disagree with the management of the Advanced Fund and that DiR gymnastics receive the 33_per_cent of these funds. I asked him if the health net personnel who made a vacancy on April 30th will or will not receive the bonus as well as the rest of the health net personnel who were on the front line. I asked him whether there will be externalisation or not, whether or not it will stop, of the sterilisation services of the great hospitals of Catalonia. I asked him to hang on to it. I asked him what happened to the presence of the primary care of CAPs. If this presence is recovered, if it recovers the specialties that have been withdrawn, for example, to the Maresme CAP. There are CAPs that don't have a pediatrician before they do. You serve, for example, as that of the speciality of gynaecology of Sant Joan Despí. Is that, is he going to get it back or is he not going to get it back? And then you made a proposal today and... when I said, "Why don't you want to take on costs? Miri, Mr. Illa told him he didn't agree. I'm telling him I agree. I agree that the coveted fountains in sanitation are consolidating. But I think it's an indirect way of not dealing with a real debate, of not, for example, bringing to the dialog table a demand that must be fundamental for Catalonia, which is a new financing system. And I think it's very modest what you're proposing on the side of a new funding system. And I believe that, in the end, you are making this proposal to consolidate the covid funds, which I can agree with at the health level, because you do not want to face, because you do not want to tell the Catalan society that while it is also to be managed and that we need a new funding system that could or should represent much more resources than these 2,000_million euros. In short, I believe that when I tell you that we need to open this new stage, that we need to tell people the truth, you have to see with this, and therefore, I insist, it is not left in a government of resignation, I intend to explore a government of transformation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.234.0	Next is the words of Mr Nacho Martín Blanco, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.235.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, it's my turn to make the replacement of the president of our group, and I'm doing it to make, you know, a couple of comments, three comments, and I'll try to be brief. I feel that much has been said in this debate about questions that have little to do with the tangible reality that the citizens of Catalonia see. It does me the effect that many of the great age-old abstractions, great abstractions that have, therefore, very little relation to the everyday life of the citizens of Catalonia, and that is why I am concerned and reminded of a phrase from Gaziel, which said that "separatism is capable of causing an episodic catastrophe to Catalonia and that it is powerless in itself. That is why, Mr Aragonès, when Mr Carrizosa gave it to him, somehow, he asked him to let go of his most maximalist positions, it was not so much that he let go of his separatism, because he does not have to let go of his ideology, it is perfectly legitimate, but what we do not really understand is, they have proved that Catalan reality has shown enough that separatism is harmful to Catalonia, that it is harmful for living together in Catalonia, it is incomprehensible that some pretend to extend 'in this obsession. Deia Josep Pla in an interview with Josep Tarradellas after the Franco dictatorship, interviewed him and was very surprised by the character of Tarradellas, and said: "It is a decision contrary to all useless and gratuitous action, and above all to all useless and gratuitous action that can break the negotiating bridges, that will surround the lands of possible understanding with the contradictions; it does not want to complicate things or make them harder or have easy successes with romantic declarations. It's an anti-sentimental, it's an anti-affectist and an anti-demagogue. The only one who aspires is not to make a fool of himself, not to make more beasts or to do more foolishly. Well, I think that lately in our land, in our community there's an effective mass policy, a sentimental mass, a demagogue mass and a massive propensity to unspokenly enslavement. And I'd ask that we get to work together. Before Mr Cid the Lord Is tired; I, frankly, have to make a couple more confessions: one, first of all the fact that I recognize a political opponent some virtue, to recognize some positive aspect that allows the dialogue, that allows negotiation, friendliness, reason, a rational debate in our Parliament I am not tired. On the contrary, I will never tire of feeling statements like this one made, in this case, Mr. Illa, which I believe is very adjunct in the present circumstances. And then, something that called me a lot of attention. I see myself there alone with my companion Anna Grau and I see that the deputies of VOX have left. Madam President, I really think we need to make an effort to get your pocket. And you, according to the article, I think it's 39, president, but correct me... well, that correct me if I'm wrong, I think it's 39, you have to age to preside over this Parliament, because it represents the chamber, it does not represent only its ideology. You cannot make propaganda statements about your way of hearing reality, but you must respect the conjunction of political groups. I represent myself, I represent my voters, I represent my companies, the deputies of Esquerra, the MPs of the PSC, the MPs of the commons, the MPs of the CUP, all that is the chamber in fish and the Catalan society in fish, and I think you do not have the right to act in such a partial way. It's not a question of VOX, it's not a question of defending VOX; it's a question of defending the dignity of this Parliament. And I think, frankly, they're out as they've basically done with this so sectarian attitude, I don't think they can get anything at all. Imagine's, Madam President – and I say it without acridud –, imagine's – imagine's's's – because you see how unfair its attitude is, that there is a constitutionalist president who has an attitude, therefore, of clear obstruction to the work of some members of an independentist party because it does not like independence or that we have a constitutionalist president, a president of the constitutionalist chamber who does things like what you do when plenary sessions begin, which remembers the deaths in the Mediterranean – all right – that remembers the victims of gender-based violence – all right – and that later remembers, moreover, his obsession with identity, that he has taken political prisoners in our country, that he has taken political prisoners in Spain. This is a huge fallacy, it is as if a constitutionalist president arrived here and said: "In this chamber, in this Parliament there are Members... – Mrs. Capella, she is not nervous –, «... in this Parliament, in this chamber there are Members who are condemned to fraction contracts. There's no congressman convicted of breaking contracts. There's some congressman who's charged with breaking contracts, who you have to call, Mrs. Delete. But there are no MPs convicted of breaking contracts. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] What you can't do is propaganda... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.236.0	Time's up, Mr. Nacho Martín Blanco. The article, indeed, was article number 39. And when he talks about neutrality and impartiality in the conduct of debates and the direction of debates, "neutrality does not mean passiveness before the violation of fundamental democratic principles' fundamental rights, which this presidency will age because they are defended in this chamber. (Applause.) Thank you very much. The Mixt Group had declined the word. Now Mrs Eva Parera asks me to speak on behalf of the Mixt Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.237.0	Thank you very much, President. I'll make a quick reply. I, Mr. Aragones, you spoke to him, and the first thing you said was that... you made a toilet saying that this looked like an investiture debate 2. But I have to tell you that the first ones who have made an investment debate here have been you, among your partners claiming to invest a government already: you press Together and Together sending a message, the UPC taking advantage of it too. So, I think it's obvious in the background that there's a 2 investment debate, since we're in a very complicated situation, all of us appreciating whether or not there's going to be a government. I am also very concerned about the lack of humility that I have seen here in the interventions that have been made by those who hold government responsibilities. There was no self-criticism. No, no, no, I'm sorry, there's no way. You have done a bad management of the health crisis and are doing a bad management of the economic crisis; there is no good health management; there is no good economic management. We can remember terrible chapters in healthcare management and economic decisions that are taken. There is an obscure management: where are the actions of the Procicate? We've asked them, we don't have an answer, we're still asking... I don't know the only one that's done it here, there are many other groups that have asked what's going on with these meetings the Process, as they take these meetings. There is a management with constant contradictions, and we have seen it among advisers of different parties that conform to the government. They don't agree. We've seen an economic advisor... from the company asking for the restoration to be opened and the decision to be taken by the government is that the restoration will not be opened. We've seen a counselor say that teletreball is mandatory and a few hours we've seen the spokesman say that no, no, that's not true, that teletreball is not mandatory. It's that you don't know or agree at the time of making statements. Therefore, this creates a difficult uncertainty between the citizens, with the feeling that nobody here knows what is being done. You say, "Please, we need you to help us, tell Mr. Illa with the state government." The Government of the State has now made a leave of office, he said: "The autonomous communities that are spreading. You have been demanding that they let them do and now they let them do, you only make appeals to the government of the State. All right, that's what it's supposed to be, there's got to be a collaboration between administrations, and it's good to start seeing that we need each other. The truth is that the feeling is that we don't have a lot of leadership, because there's no leadership, no, no leadership, and that there's a government in place isn't an excuse. There has to be a leadership in the middle of the economic crisis, in the middle of the pandemic. And what's there is a great feeling that they don't know how to deal with this crisis, that they don't know how to combine health control, economic control... they don't know how to combine measures that allow people not to die, people that allow them not to die from the virus. And get lucky they have, and start getting out of the vaccination. But it's thanks to the cows, it's not their management that made this crisis. I, therefore, would ask above all, please, to agree with what time you communicate, I no longer say what you decide, because this seems impossible, but what you communicate, because the people on the street need to feel that there is a leadership and that their government knows what they're doing, and the feeling that we all have now is that the government doesn't know what they're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.238.0	Thank you, Mrs. Parera. Now, on behalf of the Republican Esquerra Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, has the word Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.239.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, thank you again for your answer. To me I admire how you preserve serenity, tranquillity, after this type of debate. Jo, frankly, huh? , you wanted to listen here– okay, yes – a balance, a critique, mistakes, faults, pandemic management, inadequacies..., but also some indication of where we should go, which country model you imagine we have, in which direction. Mr. Illa has done it, at least; I already recognize him. He did it in a sense and with a direction that I don't share in absolute, I've already said, and so I don't repeat it now, but at least they claim that there's another way to hear the situation. In most other cases, there is only an attempt to take advantage of the corridors, isn't there? , small miseries, lacks, concrete cases, abundant and dramatic personal or small situations..., or from one or other collection, from another territory... Okay, we can do it, but it seems to me that this is not exactly what this Parliament deserves and what I believe the country expects of us all, right? It is good that we conjure up to do taxation and demand transparency, I think it is perfect, it is one of the tasks of this Parliament. And to demand accountability and transparency. But, frankly, it seems to me that we are seeing something else in general. Another thought. I ask the progressive groups in general of this chamber, and especially of the companies of the commons and the CUP, which are not limited to this easy exploitation of one concrete aspect or another, of a certain incident. I'm not saying I'm not right about any of the things they say, am I? Maybe so. But what there is is no country visit, what there is no alternative, what there is no model, what there is no way to focus on it in a clear, obvious way. I ask you to add – what I add –, to say, what I proposed, what content you would want for this government that you claim. Doesn't he realize that his intransigence of exclusion today, a priori, and absolute, is only contributing to making what he says his goal is harder? It's explicitly prejudicial to him. When it expels, it expels; when it formulates total vetoes it only helps to increase the bargaining value of those who want to expel. Fi. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, it's his fault, I'm sure he doesn't, because he doesn't have as much skill as that, but he doesn't add it. I'm asking you to add it. They ask you to actually be at the height of the ambition that you can share and of the objectives that you can actually share, that there are many, here and, certainly, other institutions where it is also equal or more difficult. Mr. Illa, I've admitted this, but also there... to see how you say it. With one hand, you make us a big one, huh? "We will work together and help in the management... but I don't know if we can admit that one more is needed to manage the crisis and with the other it is continuing to fuel repression, which is the sole source of the institutional provisionality that you denounce and criticize. [[Greetings.]] It's not worth it– it's not worth it, it's not worth it. All right. As Magritte would say, this isn't an investment debate – is it, Pere? , Vice-President–, as much as anyone understood to turn you into this. This pandemic, the Government of the Generality has managed it, with this..., and I repeat what I said before, with this characteristic of government in function and provisionality, with immense dignity. Not easily, not uncertain at all, not without internal conflicts... But I repeat that he has ruled it, that he has decided, that he has taken all the decisions, that he has taken risks. And governing is risking, and at these times even more. We assume..., the Government..., Vice President Aragonès – and today has done more than ever – has taken over the management of the crisis, has exercised the leadership that the country claims and needs, and has assumed the cost of the crisis, too. Or do they think we didn't have the electoral cost of this crisis management? Of course we did. Naturally. Of course we did. To the best of honor, and with all pride. I am proud of the government that today represents Mr. Pere Aragonès in this chamber explaining what he is explaining and proposing. We need a government headed by Pere Aragones now, immediately. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.240.0	And finally, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr. Jordi Fàbrega.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.241.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, I've done self-criticism here, I think I've done self-criticism of things that didn't do so well in the Spanish State, which we believe we didn't do well in Catalonia, and, in fact, I did self-criticism with some of the advisors of this government. I don't know whether I've been elegant or not, but do you know what it would be like to be elegant? Discuss the amnesty law at the Congress of Deputies. It would be elegant and democratic. [[Greetings.]] That would be elegant and democratic. Because we have companies, we have companies in prison and exile. And in this context, then, maybe not soc friendly, huh? But, well, let's go to what we were doing today. Yesterday was the International Day of Nursing, divenders was the World Day of Red Creu... Therefore, I believe that one of the things we have to do here today is to claim our health professionals, who have given it everything for this pandemic. We've been talking about data. Now I have five minutes, let me talk about sensations, because sensations sometimes are as important as data. The sensations we have seen, the sensations that many of us at the health centres and the CAP have seen in the eyes of the health workers, in the eyes of the ill, in the eyes of the family. This feeling of why, this feeling of ‘will I have or will I not have EPIs? , this feeling of patience, this feeling of "if this disease is stingy, when it is tricked, it will read, it will read to the ICU or it will no longer read to the ICU? 'Cause they'll be full... And that's why we can never forget that behind the figures there are people, there are families. But we will never forget this, the ones who have lived it, and we have all lived it, we will never forget it. Nor shall we forget... because this is where the Canadell company has been spoken of. I didn't know him, but at Seu came some respirators that moved the chamber to get these respirators; some boxes to intubate malalts safely, that moved the chamber to do it forward. Because we also have to claim here the absolute solidarity of all the people of Catalonia, which has been bulging to help the health care workers in the toughest moments. And that's what we have to say, too. And that's why we're in debt to them. We're in debt to the toilets, and we're in debt to all the people who got drunk. And thank the effort... We have to get this effort, this debt that we have, to have a sense; to take away the learnings that you have said, Mr. Aragones. Take 'n these learnings. But not only learnings that are theoretical, but these learnings are translated into actions, such as a unified follow-up, management of all our control with our great, social and health people, together, that takes into account home care, with day centres, with SARARs in rural areas, with protected floors and with services, with open centres. And when there is less autonomy, with assisted residences, but those assisted residences then are sanitary, because, if not, what has happened to us. We also share that this pandemic is an implicit door, a door intertwined with this pandemic that fully affects mental salvation. We cannot react; we must act proactively and act to put mental salvation at the centre of all policies, at the centre of the debate of all policies of the country and of the Government. And I also make all those short-term, but structural changes that our health system deserves. And also... I don't know if you've talked about it, but we don't forget about the research. Who's been dealing with this crisis is the search, getting the cows. Therefore, we are able to search for Catalonia, so that it is the search pole of the south, of Catalonia, Catalonia, because we can do it. It must be the search pole of southern Europe. They ask you to capitalize on these learnings about this pandemic, as did Mr Batet yesterday morning, Mr Batet, with this public and independent audit, as do all the advanced democracies, to look exactly at these learnings as we have to do, because this pandemic has to feel and we have to do the girly things and it has to feel and it has to be used to learn. Certainly, and with this end, the same feeling that he must hold the prison and exile of the legitimate government of Catalonia that 155 escaped: independence and amnesty. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0501.242.0	Well, so they've been listening to all the parliamentary groups at this point in time. Thank you very much.
