ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.1.0	Good morning, everybody. Illustrative Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Generality of Catalonia, who followed this session from other rooms, ladies and gentlemen, continued to welcome the Parliament of Catalonia in this session of its thirtieth parliamentary term. [[Constitution of the Plenary of the Parliament and election of the Bureau of the Parliament]] [[396-00001/13 and 398-00001/13]] As is required, according to Article 1 of the Regulation of the Chamber, this session is to begin with the reading of the decree of convocation, which is Decree 14/2021, of March 5, of convocation of the constitutive session of the Parliament of Catalonia, published in the Official Diary of the Government of Catalonia, number 8359, of March 8, 2021. This decree says: "Decree: Article 1, summon to the constituent session of the Parliament of Catalonia the deputies and elected deputies who have been proclaimed for the provincial electoral assemblies of Barcelona, Girona, Lleida and Tarragona, according to the result of the elections held on February 14, 2021. Article 2. The Constitutive Session will take place on March 12, at 10 a.m., in the Palau del Parlament. Final disposition. This decree will enter into force on the same day as its publication in the Official Gazette of the Government of Catalonia. Barcelona, March 5, 2021. The Rules of Procedure of Parliament, in its Article 2, stipulate that the constituent session shall initially be chaired by the elected Member of Parliament from among the present, assisted by the two youngest Members as Secretaries. According to the data released to the Parliament of Catalonia, it is known that the Honourable Mr Ernest Maragall and Mira, born on the 5th generation of 1943, is the oldest member of the present and corresponds to him to preside over the session. It will count on the cooperation of the two youngest Members, Mr Alberto Tarradas Paneque, born on 9 September 1996, and Mr David González Chanca, born on 4 November 1994. If anyone of the elected proclamations considers you to be a better right, he will have to warn you now; otherwise, the Parliament expects and the Rules of Procedure to make up the Editorial Board so as to open the constituent session of the Parliament in its thirtieth legislature. [[Pause.]] I therefore call upon them to occupy their places in the presidency. Meanwhile, as Secretary General of the Parliament of Catalonia, I would like to wish them all and all the best certainty in the exercise of the representative function that the people of Catalonia have entrusted to them. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.2.0	All right. Good morning to everyone, ladies and gentlemen. A date began this constitutive session with the reading of the summons decree by the secretary general, as president of the Edat Bureau, and in accordance with article 2 of the Rules, I declare this session open. I wish you all a very good day and a good session of constitution, as we all wish. Before reading the report of elected Members, and after leaving the election process of the Bureau of Parliament, the President, the Vice-Presidents and the Secretaries, allow me some words of greeting and also reflection, minimally brief, but which seem to me to be necessary or convenient. Let me add to this welcome another one of exceptional and personal, huh? A proper name. Welcome home, Congresswoman; welcome home, Meritxell Serret, eh? [[Strong applause and perlongations of a sector of the chamber.]] Thank you. [[The applause continues.]] Thank you very much. Yes; Mr. Carrizosa, do you ask for the word? [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres intervenes without using the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.3.0	For a point of order? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Say, say, have a few seconds to express it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.4.0	Yes, on a point of order. Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure states that when the Bureau of Age is set up, it is to organise the election and the constitution..., the election of the members of the Bureau and the constitution of this Parliament. I would ask you, please, Mr Maragall, not to make a speech in which a good part of this Chamber, as you have done in other constitutions, may not be understood. I ask you to strictly stick to your function...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.5.0	All right...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.6.0	...protocolary and do not make the rest of Catalans who do not feel understood with a speech like the one you are going to make, do not feel excluded from this Parliament. I ask you please, Mr. Maragall...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.7.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.8.0	...as a fellow Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.9.0	Thank you very much. [[Some applause in a sector of the chamber.]] I understand your warning, but I'm convinced that when my intervention ends, you'll understand that you'll have to rectify what you just said, huh? This session I think it shows very graphically what happens to us today as a country and as a society, which we are. Today, this Parliament is the best representation of the country in its complexity and diversity. Also with contradictions, inequalities and hopes, which we know I counted. This country now has giant challenges in Catalonia, to re-emerge from a pandemic with devastating effects, and in Catalonia, in the relationship with our lives, with the State and with the European Union, without oblivion of partners from the other side of this sea, between two lands. The first responsibility of this Parliament, I understand, that of all the groups of this Parliament, from today on, is to make it appear, to allow the formation, as soon as possible, of the majority that gives place to a government, to the strong, stable government that is willing to take immediate action, that this country needs; a government that takes over the kingdoms of the country, the kingdoms of the country with urgency character and with the transformative intensity that the situation demands of us; a government that can, for example, immediately address the high-intensity critical challenges that young people have posed to us in the past weeks. Mass people in Catalonia need cures and expect compensation for the sacrifices demanded. The country also needs a cure; an urgent and ultimately healing cure. We are still installed, obviously, in the democratic anomaly; an anomaly that we live every day and that this Parliament has suffered and suffers very directly. It can only be remembered that President Forcadell is still serving prison sentences for actively defending freedom of speech and debate in this house; or that President Torrent and three members of the Bureau have just been subject to further judicial proceedings for the same reason; or that the seven political prisoners, who had recognized the third degree, had to return to the prison of the hand of a supreme court, he did, prisoner of his own right of repression and revenge as only language. No, in Catalonia, today we can't talk about democratic normality. This Parliament is not the clearest evidence. If we measure it with presences and absences, we see the difference between what it is and what it might be, not only in reference to political prisoners and exiles and exiles, which today, a little more, we have to count and recognize as the legitimate representation of hundreds of thousands of Catalans and Catalans, also in relation to many citizens who might and would not like to participate freely in the democratic debate, exercise civic representation or assume responsibility for institutional action. It is also, for sure, what explains some presences, like my own, that I would no longer feel in conditions of democratic normality. This will, therefore, be the other great objective of the legislature: the full recovery of democratic quality, the climate of freedom, respect, mutual recognition in this chamber and of Catalan society. And that, we all know, will require, among other things, a profound change in the relationship with the institutions of the State. I want to make a firm and closed defense of democracy and political action that results as the only scene to contemplate in the next four years. Democracy is not synonymous with a lack of conflict, it is a way of resolving 'them, putting the word, the arguments, the votes; in short, the own way of parliaments and, very concretely, of this Parliament. Votes are translated into decisions, and this Parliament, its popular sovereignty, must be the great home of the democratic debate, of the continuous and passionate contrast, from the positive and necessary diversity that defines Catalonia. It cannot exist, it does not deserve to prosper or be assumed for the citizenry no country project, nor does it want to represent the present independenceist majority, which did not explicitly pursue the representation of the city council and the better of the living conditions of the 7 and a million citizens. There will be no Catalonia, there will be no country, without counting all the people who integrate it, from the most absolute respect to the various ideologies, political proposals and personal convictions that any giver and man of this country wants to express and defend publicly. Of course, except for those who claim to use extreme right-wing positions and abuse democratic rules and procedures to precisely destroy the same democracy and its institutions, as has already been evident in so many European democracies and now, I am afraid, in this same chamber. We will fight this extreme right; it is an obligation, it is our democratic obligation. Catalonia has always been an open community to the world; an opening that in no case can be of dissolution, loss of identity and genuine references. To capdavall, which is dissolved has nothing to contribute, and Catalonia wants to bring in this world, starting with català, the language we offer the world. Because in the world there are those who bring the most, not those who take the most. And the best we can bring is a way of doing and a way of being, not because ours is better than anyone else, our way of being and doing, but because the world is enriching itself precisely by ways of being and doing, by adding accents, languages and tonalities. We are aware of the immense activism represented by being a land of gathering, the diversity of the country we have, enclosing the more than three hundred languages that are spoken today in our streets. I'm done. We come from the repression and the judicial persecution that characterized the later legislature. We have opened the legislature of good governance, of freedom won by politicians, of democratic backwardness, of southern Catalonia, diverse and ready to continue building the country free, rich and full that we all know possible. We define this institution and we are at the height that history requires of us. For freedom, Visca Catalunya! [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] In accordance with Article 2 of the Rules of Procedure, shall we proceed now... further questions, Mr. Carrizosa, ask me? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] For a point of order?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.10.0	I called for respect for the Rules of Procedure, Article 2; you told me that you were going to respect them, and you obviously did not respect them, and your speech does not sympathize with what most Catalans think. There are no political prisoners, there are no exiles; there are...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.11.0	All right, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.12.0	...people validly condemned in a democracy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.13.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.14.0	...and there are fugitives from justice. And a second question, Mr. Maragall...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.15.0	Miri, Mr. Carrizosa, you've already made use of the word, you were thirty-seconds old, you've exhausted them. Thank you very much. [[Widow's remorse.]] Let's go on... this isn't an open debate session between the groups, it's an election process session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.16.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] ... Members who can exercise the right to vote who are present here and who will exercise the right to vote. The number of deputies...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.17.0	This question will be clarified, Mr Carrizosa, not pateixi, immediately, in the moment before the principle of voting for the election of members of the Bureau of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.18.0	Yes, because it is not enough to read the elect... (Remor de veus.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.19.0	It's gonna be... not pateixin.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.20.0	It's not enough to read the elect, Mr. Maragall...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.21.0	All right. It's compliant, so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.22.0	...you have to know the number of those who vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.23.0	In accordance with Article 2.2 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall now proceed to the reading of the report of the elected Members. And I call on the Secretary of the Edat Bureau, Mr. David González Chanca, who began reading the relationship of elected members for the Barcelona constituency. Forward, Mr. Gonzalez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.24.0	Good morning, all of you. It is a pleasure and an honor to be part of the Parliament of Catalonia. Reading of elected Members and Members who have agreed to the full exercise of the condition of Members of Parliament. « For the Circumscription of Barcelona. Party of the Socialists of Catalonia: Salvador Illa Roca, Eva Granados Galiano, Ramon Espadaler Partners, Gemma Lienas Massot, Ferran Pedret i Santos, Alicia Romero Llano, David Pérez Ibáñez, Assumpta Escarp Gibert, Pol Gibert Horcas, Esther Niubó Cidoncha, Raúl Moreno Montaña, Beatriz Silva Gallardo, Jordi Terrades i Santacreu, Marta Moreta i Rovira, Juan Luis Ruiz López, Rocio García Pérez, Cristófol Gimeno Iglesias, Eva Candela López, Jordi Riba Colom, Elena Díaz Torrevejano, David González Chanca, Helena Bayo Delgado, Mario García Gómez. Left Republican of Catalonia: Pere Aragonès i Garcia, Laura Vilagrà i Pons, Roger Torrent i Ramió, Najat Driouch Ben Moussa, Josep Maria Jové i Lladó, Alba Vergés i Bosch, Ernest Maragall i Mira, Ester Capella i Farré, Chakir El Homrani i Lesfar, Jenn Díaz i Ruiz, Pau Morales i Romero, Núria Picas i Albets, Ruben Wagensberg i Ramon, Mònica Palacín i Paris, Jordi Albert i Caballero, Lluïsa Llop i Fernàndez, Juli Fernández i Olivares, Ana Balsera i Marín, Ferran Estruch i Torrents. Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle to Win: Dolors Sabater Puig, Carles Riera Albert, Eulàlia Reguant Cura, Xavier Pellicer Couple, Basharat Change Canalejo. Together for Catalonia: Laura Borràs Castanyer, Joan Canadell i Bruguera, Elsa Artadi Vila, Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol, Meritxell Budó i Pla, Jordi Puigneró i Ferrer, Anna Erra Solà, Lluís Puig Gordi, Aurora Madaula i Gimenez, Damia Calvet Valera, Mercè Esteve i Pi, Josep Rius Alcaraz, Judith Toronjo Nofuentes, Francesc De Dalmases i Thió, Assumption Laïlla i Jou, Gloria Freixa i Vilardell. Popular Party - Popular Party : Alejandro Fernández Álvarez, Lorena Roldán Suárez, Eva Parera Escrichs. Ciutadans- Party of Citizenship: Carlos Carrizosa Torres, Ana María Grau Arias, Ignacio de Loyola Martín Blanco, Marina Bravo Sobrino, Joan García González. In Comú Puem - Puem en Comú : Jessica Albiach Satorres, Joan Carles Gallego Herrera, Jessica González Herrera, Lucas Silvano Ferro Solé, David Cid Colomer, Susanna Segovia Sánchez, Marc Parés Franzi. Vox : Ignacio Garriga Vaz de Concicao, Antonio Gallego Burgos, Juan de la Cruz Garriga Dómenech, María Elisa García Fuster, Mónica Lora Cisquer, Andrés Félix Bello Sanz, Manuel Jesús Acosta Elias.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.25.0	All right. Mr Alberto Tarradas Paneque, please continue reading deputies and elected deputies for the Circumscriptions of Girona, Lleida and Tarragona.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.26.0	Thank you very much. And very good morning. « For the Circumscription of Girona. Party of the Socialists of Catalonia : Silvia Paneque Sureda, Oscar Aparicio Pedrosa, Mónica Ríos Garcia. Left Republican of Catalonia: Teresa Jordà Roura, Sergi Sabrià Benito, Anna Caula Paretas, Bartomeu Conte Masmitjà. Together for Catalonia: Gemma Geis i Carreras, Marta Maderas i Mir, Salvador Vergés i Tejero, Francesc Xavier Ten i Costa, Maria Antònia Batlle i Andreu, Ferran Roquer i Padrosa, Jordi Munell i Garcia. Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle to Win: Dani Cornellà Detrell, Montserrat Vinyets Pagès. Vox: Alberto Tarradas Paneque. Together for Catalonia, for the circumscription of Lleida : Ramon Tremosa and Balcells, Cristina Casol Segués, Jordi Fàbrega and Sabaté, Anna Feliu and Moragues, Joan Carles Garcia Guillamon. Party of the Socialists of Catalonia : Óscar Ordeig Molist, Judit Alcalá González, Silvia Romero Galera. Republican Left of Catalonia: Marta Vilalta i Torres, Meritxell Serret i Aleu, Jordina Freixanet i Pardo, Antoni Flores i Ardiaca, Engelbert Montalà i Pla. Candidature for Popular Unity: Pau Juvillà i Ballester. Vox: Antonio Ramón López Gómez. For Tarragona. Republican Left of Catalonia: Raquel Sans Guerra, Lluís Salvadó Tenesa, Irene Aragonès Gràcia, Carles Castillo Rosique, María Jesús Viña Ariño. Together for Catalonia : Albert Batet Canadell, Mònica Sales de la Cruz, Eusebi Campdepadrós i Pucurulla, Maria Teresa Pallarès i Piqué. Party of the Socialists of Catalonia : Rosa Maria Ibarra Ollé, Rubén Viñuales Elias, Joaquim Paladella Short, Dolors Carreras i Casany. Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle to Win: Laia Estrada Canon. Ciutadans- Citizenship Party : Matías Alonso Ruiz. In Comú Can - Can in Comú : Jordi Jordan Farnós. Vox: Isabel Lázaro Pina, Sergio Macián de Greef.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.27.0	All right. Thank you very much. At this time, this presidency makes known the relationship between the electorate, the deputies and the deputies, and makes it clear that all the Members of Parliament have completed the requirements laid down in Article 23 of the Rules of Procedure in order to enter the full exercise of the condition of deputy. We shall continue to elect the members of the Bureau of Parliament. In accordance with Rule 43 of the Rules, votes for the election of these officers shall be fan by half of the papers which shall be placed in the ballot box prepared for this purpose. The first election to be made by the President of Parliament, according to Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure, and in order to make this election each Member must write a name to the paper, and it is elected that obtains an absolute majority. They shall consider null and void unreadable papers containing a name higher than the requirement or names relating to persons who are not members of the Parliament. Papers without written indication will consider blank votes. I remind the House that the members of the Bureau would vote at the end. Before proceeding to the vote, I am sure that three requests for a vote have been rejected: that the deputy Teresa Pallarès Piqué, in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure, has delegated her vote, by reason of severe malalty, to the deputy Albert Batet and Canadell; that is how the deputy Pau Juvillà and Ballester has delegated his vote, in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure, and that they comply with the agreement of the Bureau of 13 March 2020, by reasons related to the covid-19, in the deputy Maria Dolors Sabater and Puig, and, lastly, that the deputy Lluís Puig and Gordi has delegated his vote to the deputy Laura Borràs and Castanyer, for the current circumstances which the member is unable to exercise the form of a vote. These voting delegations have been communicated, known and debated by this Bureau of the Catalan Parliament and we have given..., and it has been granted the first two unanimously and, in the third case, with my vote in favour of the delegation and the vote against the secretaries, here present, of the Bureau, is considered not accepted by this delegation of the vote. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on these conditions. According to Articles 2 and 95.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Editorial Board, in the exercise of its competence for this session, and the delegations... – well, that's what we have already said exactly – and, therefore, it remains as I have just communicated. And, therefore, we can begin the cry, ordered alphabetically, of the assembly of the Members of Parliament – not by groups, but by alphabetical order – and, therefore, Mr Alberto Tarradas Paneque asks him to initiate the cry of the Members of Parliament by alphabetical order, bearing in mind that we will have to do it with a certain rhythm and flow that allows the better follow-up of the instructions of salvation and distance that are recommanable in the circumstances we live in. Forward, Mr. Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.28.0	Thank you very much. The relationship of deputies, numbered and alphabetically ordered, according to which article 100 of the Rules of Procedure... [[Long break.]] Let's start the cry. [[According to Rule 101.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Members are nominally called in alphabetical order to vaginate to the presidential table and place the papers in the ballot box. The members of the Editorial Board are screened at the end.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.29.0	We will therefore proceed to the scrutiny, also following the rules of prevention and salvation. We put ourselves in this band, I said. Mr. Gonzalez' secretary will drag and read the papers one by one and Mr. Tarradas will write down the respective names, and the servants of the chamber, too. Forward, Mr. Gonzalez. [[It goes to the polls and then to the countdown.]] All right. Complete, therefore, the first scrutiny, I do the following: Mrs. Laura Borràs, 65 votes; Mrs. Eva Granados, 42; Ms. García Fuster, 11; Ms. Gallego, 8; in white, 8. Therefore, now, I realize that there has been no absolute majority, we must proceed to a second vote, for the same reason, that of the Presidency of Parliament, of the Bureau of Parliament. So let's go back to the reading of the deputies, so that they will proceed to the ballot box another time, bearing in mind that now the election is retrieving the sort between the first two deputies for the number of votes obtained. That is, between Mrs. Laura Borràs and Castanyer and Mrs. Eva Granados Galiano. [[Pause.]] All right. [[Long break.]] We shall therefore resume the voting procedure. Please, Mr David Gonzalez, I can start reading again for Members and Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.30.0	Thank you. Report of Members, Numbers and Alphabetical Orders, according to Article 100 of the Rules. [[According to Rule 101.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Members are nominally called in alphabetical order to vaginate to the presidential table and place the papers in the ballot box. The members of the Editorial Board are screened at the end.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.31.0	We shall proceed to the polls of this second ballot, bearing in mind that votes will only be valid for one of the two candidates we have presented; candidates, both. [[It goes to the polls and then to the countdown.]] All right. Finished, therefore, the recount and verified the scrutiny with all detail and care, we proceed to proclaim that Mrs Laura Borràs and Castanyer, with 64 votes, has been elected president of Parliament... (Strong and perlongated applause in a sector of the chamber.) All right. Let's complete the reading of the scruples. Mrs. Laura Borràs, who won 64 votes; Mrs. Eva Granados, who won 50. There were 2 votes in favour and 18 votes in favour. In any case, with these results, as we have just said, Mrs. Laura Borràs is proclaimed president. Thank you very much, Mrs. Borràs. And now we shall proceed to the next vote, with the election of the two Vice-Presidents. Every deputy can write, he/she has to vote a name, as you know, to the paper and they will get elected who by order correlates have a majority of votes. All right, so we can start reading the names of the deputies. Forward, Mr. Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.32.0	Thank you very much. [[According to Rule 101.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Members are nominally called in alphabetical order to vaginate to the presidential table and place the papers in the ballot box. The members of the Editorial Board are screened at the end.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.33.0	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the two vice-presidents of Parliament. Forward, Mr. Gonzalez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.34.0	Thank you. Begin. [[It goes to the polls and then to the countdown.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.35.0	All right. We proceed, therefore, to the proclamation of the results, once completed the scrutiny. The first vice-president was elected, with 71 votes in favour, Ms. Anna Caula and Paretas. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Thank you. And she was elected vice president second, with 50 votes in favour, Mrs Eva Granados Galiano. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Granados... [[Greetings.]] All right. We shall now proceed to the third and, presumably, final vote, for the election of the four secretaries and secretaries of the Bureau. According to Article 44.3 of the Rules, for the election of secretaries and secretaries a name must be written to the paper, and they are elected by order of the four votes only getting more. So we begin, therefore, to cry out the deputies. [[Long break.]] Let's get started, then. Forward, Mr. Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.36.0	Thank you. [[According to Article 101.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Members are nominally criticized for being alphabetical because they vaginate at the presidential table and place the papers in the ballot box. The members of the Editorial Board are screened at the end.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.37.0	All right. Once the vote has been completed, we shall now proceed to the vote. Forward. Mr. Gonzalez, you're singing the names.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.38.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.39.0	Mr. Tarradas will point them out. [[It goes to the polls and then to the countdown.]] All right. We therefore proceed to the reading of the results. According to the scrutiny carried out, Mr Ferran Pedret and Mr Santos would be proclaimed, first of all, with 39 votes; second, Mr Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas, with 25 votes, and then, there is already a tie between Mr Ruben Wagensberg and Mr Pau Juvillà, both with 24 votes. That would be, therefore, for first secretaries, Mr Pedret; second secretaries, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas. Third and fourth secretaries... [[Sergi Sabria and Benito ask to speak.]] Yeah, there's a word asked for. Mr. Sabria...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.40.0	Yes, Mr. President. The result of an agreement between groups, for us, if everyone agrees, it would not be good to repeat the vote. And, therefore, the third secretary would be for Mr. Pau Juvillà and the fourth secretary, for company Ruben Wagensberg. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.41.0	All right. I understand, therefore, that everyone agrees with this solution and that, also applying criteria that have already been repeated in previous legislatures, we would proclaim Mr. Pedret as the first secretary, Mr. Alonso-Cuevillas as the second, his Pau Juvillà as the third secretary, and Mr. Ruben Wagensberg as the fourth. Therefore, after the elections, I invite all those who have been elected, starting with Mrs. Laura Borràs, the President; Mrs. Anna Caula, Vice President, and the four secretaries... [[Funnel veils]] , and Mrs. Granados – she has forgiven! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[relays]] , of course, to occupy its seats at this Bureau and to follow the session after its condition of elected members of the Bureau of the Parliament for the thirtieth parliamentary term. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats. Members of Parliament's Bureau occupy other places.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-12-0101.42.0	Good morning. Thank you, everyone. Many honourable Presidents of the Generality, President Torra and President Puigdemont, who are not in this room, but they are sent to us; Presidents of the Parliament, who are also present here; Honourable members of the Government, Vice President and Councillors; Members of the Bureau, reprisals, who are also here, like Vice President Pep Costa and Lluís Guinó ; Workers of the House ; Illustrated deputies, members of the Bureau, my first gesture, after having counted with your confidence to be the highest authority of the Chamber representing the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia, I would like it to be a minute of silence for all the victims of this pandemic that we are patenting, in recognition of many lost people, and also a situation that is possible in honour of the country. If they want to accompany us... [[In the chamber, dempeus, serve a minute of silence.]] Thank you. [[Greetings.]] Give thanks to all of us, and it's all crazy that we're being followed, tanben. We are not in the Chamber, it is a powerful display of the unusual situation in which the session of constitution of this chamber and the iniquitous of the new legislature is produced, an exceptionality that has a double view: the first, of exceptional health care for the situation of pandemic that we live in the country and that, among many other consequences, has prevented today's session from being held in the usual circumstances and scenario; and the second, of exceptional democracy, because we do not want nor can we forget that the call of the elections that led us to this day has been provided for the arbitrary incapacity of the most honourable President Quim Torra, who precisely today made it possible for the convocation of the elections that led us to be held here today to be carried out by the President Quim Torra. Allow me, however, to begin by thanking you for the great honor you have brought me. It 'takes confidence and grace of entry to preside over the chamber that embodies the sovereign will of the people of Catalonia, a chamber – I would like to remind you – that it is the heir of the first Republican Parliament of 1932, that it was necessary to dissolve a first of October of 1938 before the outbreak of fascism, as it was of a long parliamentary tradition, that of the Catalan Courts, that for almost five hundred years they were pioneers of European parliamentaryism and that they were abolished again for Bourbon authoritarianism. The Parliament of Catalonia is the maximum expression of the will to be and to persist in a people that is not under anyone's will, that is not submissive and that does not need or accept any kind of tools to decide freely how to govern its destiny. The attempts to laminate it, to control it and even to abolish it are unfortunately not a preterite reality. The legislature that we have just finished came from one of these intentions: the illegitimate application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, which meant the cessation of our government and the dissolution of this chamber. I would like to remind you, because we can never forget that our legitimate president, the very honorable Carles Puigdemont, today can circulate freely throughout all and every country of the European Union, but cannot put the few into this democracy which is said to be consolidated and model that represents the Spanish State. That the very honorable Mrs. Carme Forcadell, to whom I have the joy and honour of succeeding in the carrec, carries 1,086 days deprived of liberty, add a penalty that has been repeatedly condemned by numerous neutral international organizations and that should enrogate any democrat. That the honourable legitimate advisors Dolors Bassa, Raül Romeva, Jordi Turull and Josep Rull do not carry 1,118. The Honourable Counselor Quim Forn and Vice-President Oriol Junqueras, 1,227 days, and Mr.Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart, 1,244. And that the honourable Counselor Clara Ponsatí, the Councillor Toni Comín, the honourable Counselor, and since today also illustrious deputy – who will soon recover his right to vote – Lluís Puig, are still Romanesque today exiles more than a thousand miles from his home to be able to assert his cause, which is a just cause, with understanding any of his European justice, except Spanish, which is not his justice but his revenge. And allow me to greet in a special way the illustrious Member Meritxell Serret, who yesterday himself was able to return home, as today returns to this house of all, after almost three and a half years. So good that yours is the first of all setbacks to come and we wouldn't want to differ a day more. I make a special point to President Forcadell, sentenced to allow debate in this house of the word, which is what is a parliament. The task that he did as the Speaker of Parliament deserves all my respect and admiration. In fact, my goal is to continue the work there where she left it, because no court or prison will make us give up their ideas, our ideas. That President Forcadell, who so dignifiedly headed this chamber, is today serving prison time for allowing this Parliament to debate such essential questions as the national yearnings of our country is a democratic anomaly that we will not tire of denouncing. "The essence of democracy is that the word in Parliament must be free. Parliament must be able to speak absolutely of everything. These words, which President Forcadell said in front of the court that she would sentence her to eleven years and a half of imprisonment for a alleged crime of siege, illustrate the experience with which I urge you to face this new legislature, to work to regain the dignity of this chamber and to grant it the political relevancy that is close to her as to the sovereignty of the people and to protect her because she is a sovereign institution. Without separation of powers there is no democracy and it is our duty to maintain the inviolability of this Parliament, its independence, they do not allow interference from other powers, neither from the executive nor from the judiciary. It is said as a declaration of the intentions of a parliament that we must want strong, independent and free, because without a parliament we will rise above the desire for freedom of the citizenry will be respected. As President Macià put it, we turn it into the political instrument of his collective freedom. This is my proposal and my compromise, that this house, which is the house of the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia, preserves the rights of all Members, that is the way to preserve the rights of their constituents and opposes the extension of the freedoms of their members and, by extension, of all the citizenship that all of us here represent. With the president, I will ensure that this sovereignty is respected and defended against any outside interference. I have accepted submetric 'but the vote to preside over this chamber with full consciousness not only of the high dignity that implies, but above all of the enormous responsibility that it supposes to preside and represent a chamber that has been, that is and probably will continue to be one of the main objectives of the gross and anti-democratic war of the Spanish State against Catalonia. It is well known that I have competed for the later elections – and I will be allowed this personal note – not with the aim of presiding over the Parliament, but of presiding over the Government of the Generality, but the people of Catalonia, who are the only one to whom any public office owes, in the same way that they have granted for the first time a majority in votes and a clear independence vote in this chamber, has also given priority to another group. Entering to form a new part of my country's government, as I have done, would have been an immense honor, not to say, but perhaps even, personally, a more comfortable option, but I did not abandon my academic life and dedication to letters and decided to take the step of running for a few elections in this Parliament seeking comfort. It was the exceptional context of the application of Article 155 and the conviction that the civil and moral right had to make me available to my country to help end repression and complete the path to national liberation. It has been this conviction that has guided all and every step I have taken from abroad, and if I am honored to be able to address this chamber, it is again because during the last few weeks I have tried to make an honest and rigorous reading of the results of the elections and I have come to the conclusion that, now more than ever, this chamber must have a key role in the unfolding of our country's future policy. And as much as the majority of the Bureau, like its presidency in particular, we are called upon to make our own an insurmountable compromise with the message that the people of Catalonia have addressed to us. The legislature that we are about to see today has to mark a turning point in the advent of Catalonia's independence, so they have turned and decided more than half the citizens. Also, we know perfectly well that when the Spanish State fails to win the ballot box, it tries to win it in the courts. The judicialization of politics, which Spain has turned into its only response since two years ago, is the greatest demonstration of political impotence. If there is no dialog, there can be no politics. And the Spanish State, it has not only given up dialogue, is willing to decide what and what others cannot dialogue about; especially, it is willing to decide what and what cannot be talked about in this room, who can do it and who can't do it, how can it be done and how can it not be done. And I want to make it clear, from this very first moment, that while I'm president of this chamber, that won't happen. The Members of the Parliament of Catalonia will have no other limitations than those which impose democratic principles. What does not fit into a democracy or a parliament is xenophobia and racism, masculinism and any kind of national or personal oppression. Unfortunately, no Western society is vaccinated against these massacres, but Catalonia has always been an example of freedom and this table will age so that they continue to feel. As President, I will be tolerant of diversity and discretion, but I will also be relentless against masculinity and xenophobia. The women – and I hope that all the Members of this Parliament – will be a wall against masculinism; a wall in defense of democracy. And I would like to point out that, for the first time, the president and the two vice-presidents are women, in this Parliament. Sixty-five of the 135 elected are deputies. A percentage that grows in more than four points respects the previous legislature. And we will continue, from the Parliament, to develop the Pla d'Igualtat through a plan of action that will eradicate gender discrimination and achieve effective equality, also fighting the political fascism that wants to detail the rights of women. There's never been so many women in the room. A reflection of what is going on socially and what is still going on. There's never been so many women, it's the reflex that for a long time there's been too few. This legislature must also be that of the dam; that of the dam of our civic life, that of our cultural life, the commercial life, the professional life in fullness after the pandemic of the covid-19. And to accomplish this fullness and to deal with the devastating effects that this health crisis has had on all spheres will be crucial not only the direction and political will of the Government, but also the legislative impulse of this chamber. The guarantee of the economic and social progress of a company is directly proportional to its legislative capacity, because the laws that we will have to deal with, all of us, fellow Members, are the means with which we guarantee, protect and, above all, anticipate our future. We are in 2021, but we do not have a 21st-century parliament, which is used to be up-to-date and to protect and improve and update all political rights. I'll work to make it a front-running parliament. As useful, digital and advanced as possible. It was precisely thirty-two years ago that Tim Berners-Lee wrote a first draft that defined concepts as important as that of the web or the concept of hypertext. A proposal that, without any doubt, has finished laying the groundwork for the global network of collective knowledge. In this sense, I take advantage of this admonition because we have to make, from Parliament too, a decisive bet for the modernization of this institution and of all its procedures. In the final stretch of the previous legislature, the pandemic has shown us the absurdity of the technological limitations that have perverted its pull. Because the paradox that we see today is that the debates and the telematics management have not only been and are possible, but are now essential. I have no doubt that all of us will work from today to make economic and social recovery of the country possible. What we will do from the consciousness that all crises, too, strike with a special harshness the most vulnerable sectors of our society. And precisely because of this, the legislative impulse of this chamber must have as its main concern the protection of those who do not have only public institutions to protect them. I will work, we will work so that this Parliament is exemplary and transparent, austere and integral. If all public institutions in the civil service must be exemplary, Parliament must be even more exemplary. Because it's not taxed by anyone, since its independence is sacred. For this reason, its exemplaryness and the transparency of all and each of the processes must be maximum. And in times of crisis, in times of severe economic difficulties, austerity must be a mandate and integrity a rao de ser. This, therefore, is the experience with which I invite you to work and legislate to give an answer to the needs of the citizenry, to the democratic aspirations represented by most Members of Parliament, which the people of Catalonia have expressed at the polls. The Parliament of Catalonia is the representation of all Catalans and its work must be done for all Catalans. My commitment – and I am sure that the extension to the rest of the Bureau – is to move and work tirelessly because the view of the citizenry is present in every one of our actions. And in this sense, I invite them, naturally, to do politics in the plenary room, but I ask them not to convert this institution into a house locked in it itself, but to open it, that we might be able to function as a space for the social debate, for the intellectual debate, for the cultural debate. I will make use of the prerogatives that I know only that, at least, a president of this house, Ernest Benach, inviting personalities of the scientific or cultural world to direct, to address words to the deputies. On that occasion he was Master Joan Solà and I held – he was my teacher – the great privilege of accompanying him. On that occasion, Professor Solà urged the deputies to say: "Fortunately, our country has an unequivocal intention to pull forward. To do it, despite everything. It has a first-class human, technical and scientific potential to achieve it. We take advantage of this enormous potential, ladies and gentlemen, you and all the other leaders of society. Let's raise our country. We unequivocally defended his multiple personality. It's Joan Solà's words. And speaking of his specialty, speaking of language. The language of the Catalan countries added: "Your defence is a pocket of all Catalan speakers, but you, as parliamentarians elected by the people and as legislators, have a greater responsibility. We also have this in our responsibility for the backbone of the country: the own language; the Catalan language in the Principality – and also the Catalan sign language – as well as the orange language in the Aran. Before the composition of this chamber is the reflection of the opinion expressed by the citizens in the ballot box. And I'm saying that in this house the word has to be free. But the representatives of the democratic forces must also conjure us up, so as not to give respite to the totalitarian ideas that are dispelled in order to spread 'expertly in our society. The fascism is incompatible with democracy, we cannot normalize it in our political scene; I count on all of you to do so. But we also have the repte, a repte col·lectiu, to pay attention to the causes of its growth. Citizens have chosen with the inapplicable force of their vote a parliament which must stand firm in defending democratic values and which must have the courage to stand up to repression. This is the ballot box, and we can't take him away. As president, I intend to defend the compliment of the 14th February election mandate. In democracy, it is always the law that has to adapt to popular will and not the other way around. We are in a legislative chamber and we have power – and we can – to legislate over everything that this majority of this chamber decides, because the only limit that this Parliament has is the aspiration of the citizens of Catalonia that we represent, and we get to where they, democratically, bring us. We have the words that Simone de Beauvoir has left written: "That nothing should be limited to us, that nothing should be defined to us, that nothing should be subject to us, that freedom should be our own substance. Members and Members, I invite you not to impose limits on democracy and to make it possible for Catalonia's freedom to reach where its citizens want to decide. The voters have placed their trust in us; a confidence to help turn Catalonia into a more free, closer and fairer country. Let not his hope be disappointed, let not his trust be mocked. The Tretzena Legislature is hereby constituted. Visit the democratic, just and free Catalonia that we represent today. And I invite them to put us down and sing our national anthem. Thank you very much. [[Greetings. The chamber, dempeus, sings Els Segadors.]] The session's up.
