ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.1.0	Well, good morning. Let's resume the session. And the truth is today, before the session starts... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, we're missing a secretary... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thank you, I hadn't seen it. Ask him to come. I was here, because we did... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Perfect, thank you. Now yes, we already have the secretary. We can start with the Ple's precept. Today is June 17th; it is the national festival of the Aran, the date on which the restitution of the General Council of Aran is celebrated and the recovery of its rights and privileges. That's why I'd like to send, before I start this session, some greeting words to all the spiders that are celebrating today. Good Aran's face to all of them. In Aran auetz fought on an exemplary basis to preserve and recover your cultural and historical heritage and it was your language that is a part of your cultural and historical heritage in this country. Less than a year old is restrictions of this pandemic, delay that you can celebrate was your own as a caus. Good Hesta d'Aran. And, say these words to all the spiders that are celebrating today, let's start with an alteration of the order of the day. As the parliamentary groups know, because they have not been informed beforehand, the proposals, in accordance with Rule 83.3 of the Rules of Procedure, altering the order of the day of this plenary session, at the same time as the requests made by the Joint Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, in such a way that point 18, which is the report to the Minister following the inquiry to the Government on the situation of children's education, can be substantiated in continuation of point 15, which is beyond the questioning of this session. And that point 17, relating to the motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the strategic lines of the department competent in the matter of equality, can be substantiated further to point 18. Therefore, this morning we will substantiate the motions in this order: point 18, point 17, point 16 and, finally, point 21. How have all the groups been informed, on the proposal I have mentioned, can we approve this amendment by consent? [[Pause.]] Perfect. So thank you very much. The order of the day is changed in this sense. [[Asking the Government about university entrance tests for batting students]] [[300-00009/13]] And let's get to the top of the order of the day, the question to the government about proofs of access to the university for baccalaureate students, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The honourable Member, Mr Ignacio Martín, has the floor to make the presentation of the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.2.0	Thank you, President. Well, in the first place, I add to your congratulations on the day of the Aran. Yes, it is true that I would like to make a small historical precision. It is curious that in a parliament in which there is a good bunch of separatist parties, which speak all the day of 1714, they speak of Philip V as if he were a..., let's say, the greatest demon in the history of Catalonia..., let's remember that precisely the Aran, during the War of Succession, which was a period..., a very different historical episodes from what nationalist historiography says..., to Aran precisely the majority support of the people of the Aran was to the Bourbon cause, to the cause of Philip V. And it was precisely this motivator for which the historical institutions of the Aran were respected for the new monarch, the monarch Philip V, that Catalan nationalism presents, let's say, as the greatest demon of history. The story is very curious, and when it's explained well, when it's explained rigorously, it has these contradictions. I insist, the War of Succession was a European war, a war that held a civil war in Spain, between Catalonia and also between the Aran, but most of the Aranese gathered, gave support to the candidate Felipe V, different from other rights of the Crown of Aragó. And, for example, Catalonia had philipists, but there were also Austrians. And in any case, that war was a very different thing from what nationalist historiography tells us. This, as we speak today of selectivity, has interest, because one of the themes that is used to going out to selectivity is, precisely, the theme of the War of Succession, which the nationalists used to..., used to, the nationalists, to present as the War of Secession. No: it was a war of succession to the throne of the Spanish crown. And anyway, I think that's interesting. However, today I do not come to talk about history – although, in part, yes – but about the recent news we have heard about the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia regarding the requirement that the Generalitat provide Catalan pupils, in the EBAU tests, in the tests of selectivity, the examinations in the three official languages of our community, which are basically Spanish, Catalan and Aran. Historically, successive nationalist governments, as well as those presided over by the Socialist Party of Catalonia, have abandoned their functions and have avoided offering Catalan pupils the possibility of taking the test of selectivity in any of their languages. Well, this time there was a judgment before the evidence of selectivity, of the Court..., a judgment not, an order of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, which demanded that the Generalitat comply with its obligation and that Catalan pupils be given the opportunity to make the examination both in Catalan and in Spanish and in English, that the examinations be made available to all, universally, in all three languages. And yet the Generalitat, once again, by order of the Councillor, Mrs Conseller, Mrs Geis, what she has done has been to do, as always, disobedience to what the courts say. The courts required you, as a counselor, to deliver the exams in all three languages, and what they have basically done has been to do the usual thing: cheats to avoid fulfilling their obligations, with what the courts say and with what, in the end, is fair to the citizens of Catalonia as a whole. The most curious thing is that, far from recognizing the perverseness of the situation, that lack of recognition of rights..., because this is not a question of philosophy, political theory or national rights, as you like to present this question, but of individual rights, of the rights of citizens to receive information from their public administration – in this case, from the Generalitat, from the Autonomous Administration – in the three languages: Catalan, Spanish and Aran, which are the three official languages in Catalonia. But, curiously, it turns out that, when these exams take place, the next day the great news that appears on TV3 and that the different nationalist leaders present us as the great novelty is that only 5_per_cent of the students who were examined of selectivity this year have asked, they have asked, motu proprio, they have had to raise their hand to say: « I want the exam in Spanish. And that sounds like great news to you. Separatists, it's terrible news. The news is the observation that in Catalonia the spiral of silence presides over our public debate. The spiral of silence is what the philosopher Elisabeth Noelle-Neumann, who operates in a society when an important part of society does not dare to express its views because of fear of the pressure of the majority, because of fear of the tyranny of the public administration, who sends constant messages of contempt and contempt to those who think differently; of contempt, in short, of dissent. So, well, honestly, I think we deserve all our appreciation those brave ones who have asked..., that 5_per_cent of students who have dared to ask for the exam in Spanish. But, of course, it is you, Mrs Geis, who should have offered all your Catalan pupils that exam, both in Catalan and in Spanish and in spiders, physically, and not to tell them that you have the option to do what and to..., you have the option to ask for their right to be recognized... No, no, you recognize your right to examine yourself also in your mother tongue. Or do you think it is normal that in a society where 55_per_cent of citizens have Spanish as their mother tongue and only 5_per_cent asks to take the test in Spanish, ask to have such an important test for their lives in Spanish? It is absolutely abnormal; 55_per_cent of families, 55_per_cent of Catalans with Spanish as their mother tongue, and only 5_per_cent asks to make such an important examination in their lives, in their academic trajectory, as that of selectivity..., only 5_per_cent asks to do it in Spanish. Something I think it's obvious that it fails in Catalonia that you sell like a orchard. From that point of view, I take this opportunity, Mrs Geis, to ask you for a rational debate on the language model of Catalonia. A debate that I place on you to have, between you and me, here, between my group and yours, or yours, here and in any other forum, in any other academic forum, in any other communicative, media forum... Let's make that debate before the public. Let us give Catalan public opinion a rational, serene, calm debate about what educational model they want for their children. I assure you that I am fully convinced that a vast majority of Catalans will want a bilingual system at least, in Catalan and in Spanish, when not trilingual, by introducing English. Now, that spiral of silence is no coincidence. That spiral of silence..., are many years of policies of contempt for the Castilian, of contempt for bilingualism; of episodes as sharp as that here, in this Parliament, in the year 96 a deputy of the People's Party, Mr Julio Ariza, dared to speak Castilian and there would be deputies of Convergence and Union that were horrified, with their hands on their heads. The entire Republican Left Group abandoned the horrified hemicycle. And a deputy, Joan Aymerich – I say names so that it is clear and that everyone can look for it in the hemerotheque – from Convergence and Union, shouted: "Please, there are children in the hemicicle! That there's kids in the hemicle! How can an intervention in the castle have children in the hemisphere? That is the spirit that the nationalist parties have for the presence of the Castilian in our society, for the presence of the Castilian in our Chamber. I also remind you, for example..., like what happened in a school in Mataró after a judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, a judgment just like that which you have recently disobeyed, Mrs Geis, which required that the teaching hours in Catalan schools be at least 25_per_cent in Spanish..., when a family dared to demand that this right be made effective again, demanding that citizens do what the Administration does not do, neither the Government of the Generalitat, nor unfortunately the Government of Spain, that the only thing that it does is to support their speech..., far from recognizing their rights, they are required to do so. For a family in Mataró asked for that, asked for their children to be given 25_per cent of the hours in Spanish, and what happened? That their parties, Convergence – or Junts per Catalunya, or whatever it is called now – and Esquerra Republicana, called demonstrations at the gates of Mataró's school to literally insult parents. And I read what the candidate for the City Council of Mataró told you for Republican Left, Roser Jurado, on Facebook to the families who had asked that 25_per_cent of the hours in Spanish for you to tell me, Mrs. Geis, if that is not totalitarianism, if that is not what you are constantly calling "extreme right," "fascism and I don't know how many more things. He told the families who had asked for this right of his, 25_per_cent of the hours in Spanish: "This will not remain so. On the 14th, the day of the beginning of the course, you will see how you receive the family. This was said by a candidate for the mayor of Mataró de Esquerra Republicana to the families who had dared to ask in their country, in Spain, at least 25_per_cent of the hours in Spanish. It's just that he's slick, really. I tell you, honestly, that, as you all know – and I think the movement is showing itself walking – I speak, I perform, I write and I make a militant use of bilingualism. I am fully convinced of bilingualism as the best way to articulate coexistence in this community of ours. Now, what you are doing is trying to eliminate, through a social engineering project, the Castilian from our lives, from our classrooms, from our public space. And I insist on what I said before: I only ask you, Mrs Geis, from the utmost respect and without any desire to offend anyone, that we hold once and for all, in the middle of 2021, a rational debate on the language, a rational debate on the model of linguistic immersion that so much harms our children and so much harms coexistence in Catalonia. Thank you, Counselor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.3.0	To answer, there is now the words of the Research and University Advisor, the deputy Ms Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.4.0	Good morning, President. MPs, MPs, MPs White... Jo, first, wish all of you good Aran's National Hesta. And, therefore, the compromise also, as the president refers, from the council to end all public policies that may have a national impact and also on the development of this territory. In the first place, I would also like to start, before entering – I listened attentively to the White Member –..., congratulate and give thanks to all the people who have developed the organization of the PAU, especially to the Secretary of the University Council of Catalonia, Mr Josep Ribas, and to all the staff of the department, because the week that we started to retire as the team of the Council we met with this interlocutory, Mr Blanco – no « sensència; neither would it be a strict interview if we spoke legally, so only it could be a provision; therefore, neither is it an interlocutory, but let us be –..., from this first encounter as to the Council. Therefore, my first thanks go to all the teachers, teachers, all the students who participated in the tests of the PAU, because they went, as I will explain, with all the normality, because the most important thing was that they could do these tests in a year conditioned because it was the second year, in this case, that they were doing the telematic classes, in pandemic. And we all know what to do with family selectivity tests, too. And, therefore, the first thing that worried us about how the council is that it is possible to develop with all normality, that it can do the exams, that they are also very important for its future development and to be able to choose that way to university. And, therefore, that was the one that worried us the most, as the councillor. We're also concerned about the recovery of face-to-face. And that's what we're working on with Councillor Argimon, who in September the universities can regain their presence. It is true that there are public sanitation criteria here, but we expect this recovery from face-to-face, which can also impact very directly on the day-to-day students of Catalan universities. With regard to the question made to me by the deputy of Ciutadans, the deputy white, tell him that this year 39,775 students who were enrolled in this school joined the selection tests, which were completed in 225 courts in 62 municipalities. That, therefore, there is also a strict infrastructure for distributing exams, the different models of exams; that it also had to be old because no interference could mismatch this good functioning, this distribution of exams and all the protocols it has established, which I think went very well. Moreover, this year two spaces have been given up for testing, because, because of the effects of the pandemic..., Ramon Llull University, the International University of Catalonia, which have also collaborated to be able to do these tests in a framework of centralization and greater security in the field of sanitation and pandemic. And you know that there have also been other protocols that believe this is a good thing to do. First, there is a mandatory phase, as you know, and the specific and optional phase, which serves to push the note. Moreover, it was done with an inclusive will, so that students with a learning disorder who asked to be examined in a specific ordinary court and who had a favourable acceptance letter could also be examined in the framework of that court. And, for what it does to the incidents, deputy of Ciutadans, have occurred in a very limited number. There have been basically eighty cases of students who have asked, because of their covid symptoms, to be able to test for selectivity on another day. This was already established, because we can already imagine that it was the first case of incidence, that there were students who were enrolled in the PAU and that there were symptoms of covid or being close contacts with people... And, therefore, the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia has come into contact with them and their own days will be able to do the tests, as expected. Therefore, in this sense, it worked correctly. With regard to the reference you made to the language model, I agree with you: here there is no spiral of silence in this country. I believe that in the place where there is no spiral of silence in this country is the Parliament of Catalonia, that it is the place where the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia is wrong, because all and every one of you, Members and Members of Parliament, are democratically elected for all the citizens of Catalonia – every one of you. Therefore, the place where there can be no spiral of silence is in Parliament. And in Parliament, it's too bad about sovereignty, it's where the debates between Members of Parliament and Members of all those aspects that are part of the political programs that we defend. Therefore, there will be a councillor and a councillor that we can do all the democratic debates in this Parliament: of the language model..., of which you want. I simply ask that they do not want to win the courts of justice when the democratic majority of this Parliament does not hold them. [[Greetings.]] Two. When you refer to the language model and you talk about disobedience, I tell you that you refer to rigor... Well, we have a legislative framework, in Catalonia, that we have to complete, and that's what sets the legal framework to apply for Catalan universities, such as evidence of selectivity at university. For example, Article 6 of the Statute of Autonomy establishes that Catalonia's own language is the Catalan language, and, as such, the Catalan language is the language of normal use of public administrations and also the language normally used as a vehicle and learning in teaching. Article 50, that universities and higher education situations must adopt measures to ensure the use of català in all teaching, non-docent and research areas. Article 11 of the Law of Education of Catalonia establishes the Catalan language as the own language of Catalonia, which is the language normally used as the vehicle language and learning to the educational system. And Article 6 of the Law of Universities of Catalonia..., the Catalan language is the language of its own at the universities of Catalonia, and, therefore, is the language of normal use of its activities. This is the standard mark. But let's get into the debate that you were asking me and that I, in good grace, therefore, step back. At the PAU – at the testing of the PAU –, as has been done in the past years..., because you, when you do some kind of considerations of bad functioning, do not only do them to this council or to this council. There is a network of teachers and teachers who participate in the PAU, who when you have doubts about what will they are doing and organizing these tests..., not only are you involved in the counseling – which I already say is equal to me – but in this teacher who has been doing the tests and developing them correctly for many years. Therefore, they ask you to rethink the criticisms, because they do not only affect this consultancy – which I say is equal to me – but the teacher who participates in the organization of the PAU. So, when you do some kind of criticism, you think there's a whole series of teachers who've been involved in it for many years, and they've also felt a lot less, with the criticisms that you've been doing. Moreover, the PAUs can be made in any of the three official languages in Catalonia, as you said – the Catalan language, the Arabic occupancy and the castle – with independence from which language the statement has been rejected, carried, clearly – you make reference – to Catalan language exams, Catalan literature, Spanish language or foreign language. All the courts of the PAU have examinations in the Aran castle and on the occasion of the Aran, if they correspond, and are distributed on request of the student. This model has not emerged any evidence-incidence, and language uses scrupulously complement the normal mark and also resolve to what you refer to. As you know, despite the fact that the PAU's operating instructions were made public on April 13th, it was the divender 4th of June at 2.55 p.m. that filed this request for precautionary measures. Finally, the dilluns, two-quarters late, we got the notification of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, but for which we continued to age is for this correct functioning, for the correct distribution that had already been made of examinations. And, therefore, what we did was to continue working so as to offer certainty, rigour, solvency and predictability to students in the testing of PAUs – and families. And how did we do that? So with the objective of continuing to ensure the proper functioning of the PAUs and the use that they can make to choose and make the examination in the official language that they want, what we did was to reinforce the communication so that each of the students has information on the entrance of the classrooms, through the electronic mail... All the students received a notification by electronic mail because they have another information of this right that it is possible to choose the language. The truth is that we might probably have the exact data of who the impact was, but I assure you that this impact is artificial. There was no increase in the use of the demand for exams in castle – that would not happen if it did occur, it would not happen – but there were exams in castle each in the classroom and each of the students who participated in the tests of the PAU had information respecting this right. Therefore, here, as always, no right has been violated. There is no spiral of silence, and what there is is a correct functioning of the tests of the PAU, which depend on the teachers and teachers that each of these years and the last years have been developing and carrying out these tests with a correct normality. Therefore, I return to say: to debate everything they want, to theirs of the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia, and to debate everything we carry in the electoral programs. But you don't want to win in the courts of justice at what here, voting for the deputies and the deputies who represent the people of Catalonia, you won't win. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.5.0	Thank you very much. Now has the word Mr. Ignacio Martín, in the replica turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.6.0	Thank you, Counselor. Yes, of course, counsel, it is an authentic fact that the citizens of Catalonia have to appeal to the courts for the Administration to recognize to us the rights that are recognized to us for the State, for the Constitution, for which the Constitutional Court says and, ultimately, for our democratic order. Indeed, many citizens of Catalonia have to resort to our courts and tribunals because you, who are systematically denied the rights of the citizens of Catalonia..., certainly not only the Catalan speaking Catalans, but also the Catalan speaking Catalans, who see their monolithic linguistic policy of making an absolutely monolingual, absolutely homogeneous system in Catalonia, harms on way the material interests of the citizens of Catalonia, also of the Catalan speaking citizens. I'm telling you because there's, I think, big misunderstandings here. It is obvious that with a presence of the castle as we currently have at education in Catalonia, at public education in Catalonia, with two hours of castle in the week the Catalans cannot have... And this is another mantra, one of the other great fallacies of Catalan separatism, of Catalan nationalism, which is that the Catalans have the same level of castellal as the children of the rest of Spain, when there is no single proof to all of Spain – neither selectivity nor any other proof – that it is together to all of Spain. And it would really be a metaphysically impossible thing for the Spanish children..., not Catalan Spaniards, the children of the rest of Spain, to have a level that looks like the Catalan children have the presence of the castle that they have in the week. It's an absolutely inverse thing. Certainly, when you speak of Article 6 of the Statute, I must remind you... I already know that for you the legal order is an absolutely negligible thing, a thing of Spanishols, an almost anachronistic thing, but I say it: Article 6 of the Statute of which you speak has been declared, in part, unconstitutional, null; one of the aspects, which is when you say that the Catalan language must be preferred over the Spanish language. And what you do precisely with these attitudes of not giving directly the test of selectivity in castella, in Catalan and in orange is to give it a pre-eminence to the Catalan language, as if the Catalan language had to have more rights..., or the citizens who want this language as the vehicle language had to have more rights than the rest of the Catalan languages – in this case, also the castle and the orange. On the other hand, one thing: there is a question of principles, Mrs. Geis. Assuming that this chamber is the chamber that is its autonomy of the city of Catalonia, that it is not a small thing, that many things can be done with autonomy, but this chamber logically is not sovereign. So we can't do everything we want. We are in a democratic state of right and there are things that are the competence of the Catalonian Parliament, some very clear competitions, a very broad autonomy comparable to that of the most decentralized states of the world, but it is not a sovereign parliament. Just take it and I think it'll be a lot easier with this. I gave you the subject of rational debate on language before, because obviously you will never make a rational debate on language. You really, Mrs. Geis... I would be delighted if you would answer this question, and I ask it directly – so much good to say to me: "Okay, I answer it –: you think the Catalan school would be less Catalan because there was more presence of the castle? It's a key question to me. You speak of "the Catalan school as if the fact that it was all in Catalan, that the only vehicle language that keeps our children at our schools follows the Catalan school, makes our school a Catalan school, and, in change, if there is more presence of the castle, I don't know what percentage – I don't know if in a 33_per_cent, a 25_per_cent or a 50_per_cent – that would make the Catalan school less Catalan. It is a criterion of a "nineteenth, regression, absolutely anachronistic" nationalism. There's no sense in claiming that a political community, which you consider to be its birth..., a political community, in any case, has nothing to be monolingual. On the contrary, Catalan society is bilingual by definition, it is a bilingual society in which Catalan and castle coexist with all normality. And what you claim is, in a project of social engineering, as I said before, to eliminate, to eradicate the presence of the castle of public space; to eliminate, to eradicate the presence of the castle from the symbolic point of view to all that I want to see with the Catalan institutions and the Catalan schools precisely to make the majority of the citizens of Catalonia regard the castle as an alien thing. It's obvious they didn't make it. It is obvious that the linguistic coexistence in Catalonia between català and castella is, to my mind, very good; it is, carried with some clever episodes, as we have seen..., I know, the Lord Santiago Espot going to set up measures to speak castella or some other entities going to set up merchants to speak castella..., the coexistence is essentially model. But why? For Catalan society. Not precisely thanks to his policies, but despite his policies. Nationalism is harmful to Catalonia and nationalism impoverishes our society. Thank you, Mrs. Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.7.0	Then you have the word, in the turn of the line, the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.8.0	Yeah. Three very quick considerations. What do you mean by the importance of the state of law and the compliment of the sentences – which I say: "Okay – what do you think about the non-transpation of the scholarships from the Spanish State to the Generality of Catalonia, what have you been up to for so many years? You'll defend him too, won't you? Or are you going to miss me? Why is that so inconclusive, huh? And that does change. Second: when you refer to the rational debate..., I think I'm making a rational debate; or are you more rational than I am, speaking? 'Cause I think I'm doing it a lot, huh? Therefore, my positions are rational, yours too, but do not classify and do not consider our positions as if they were not rational because they are disparate to yours, because I am not classifying or considering a position..., which you can legitimately hold as not rational. So, we all talk rationally here, huh? Don't give us lessons of rationality or not, because I don't think I've done it either. When you say that... [[Greetings.]] When you say... why did you talk about education, and we're talking about college, huh? I understand that... listen, look, this counselor..., any proposal you make in the field of university – of degrees, of teaching, of research, of transference, of social compromises –..., there are better proposals for the Catalan university system or for research in this country..., there will always be this adviser. Because university values make us have the ability to hear that there is always room for improvement, because this is part of university experience. For that matter, it will always be there. Now, when you're talking about different concepts, you're talking about school, you're assigning me to eliminate the castle. Have you ever heard me say that I want to remove the castle? Do you think that in full 21st century the children of this country or any student can come from the castle, in a global world like what we are? Apparently not. And, besides, what forms part of a party that was born with hostility towards a language was you, not us, who understand a different Catalonia, where it must be compatible living with all languages. And that doesn't mean defending the Catalan language, which is Catalonia's own language. But you have just gone into the debate: you have gone to focus on the debate on the Catalan language and have not made any concrete proposals for better system, better system of universities, evidence of PAUs. And what you're doing is making big and making fireworks out of a problem, as it turned out last week, that it wasn't there. Therefore, this councillor will always have it in rational debates for the search and improvement of the search system and universities of this country. But I will never find myself with fireworks and fireworks of problems that we saw last week that were absolutely false, and that you give them micro and relevancy, and to us what causes us is to waste old time for a correct development that was already pre-fixed for the correct development that was in evidence of the PAU. Therefore, we must be all of you, you and I, but what they ask of you are concrete proposals beyond the search for problems, which we saw last week that are not there. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.9.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the Knowledge Society]] [[300-00013/13]] Let's move on to the 14th item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government about the knowledge society, presented by the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. And now the presentation will be made by Congresswoman Judith Toronjo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.10.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to all, councillor, deputies, deputies... I use the word, using this question, to put in value the creation of the new Research and University Councillor with the question to Councillor Gemma Geis on the challenges of the department to the length of this legislature, and, in concrete terms, on the knowledge society. An intervention that I make today, a special intervention that, if I may, I want to be filled in by the connection that I have always had with the political association youth from the JNC, but also from the vocation of serving in the professional field in the university institutions of our country. Counselrera, again it is a pleasure to count on you and that you take this new leadership to the front of the department, with an exemplary trajectory from the academic sphere, but also from the university sphere, which demonstrates its bagatage and also its vocation as public service, also betting from the Parliament of Catalonia for a country and for a university system of strong search and pioneer. In this sense, the first days of government have become clear the importance of putting the university world at the service and center, and of doing so through a new department endowed with tools, necessary policies, which allow a return to our society through greater formation, knowledge, talent, research, and therefore transformation. Precisely in this context of pandemic and in the beginning of recovery, there has been more than ever the opportunity we all have, the need to empower it, and this bet must allow knowledge policies to become a strategic issue for Catalonia. But I'd like to, in the first place, also make a short X-ray of some important facts, know where we're coming from to get the clutch enough to put in value for where we're going. In Catalonia we currently have twelve universities, with more than 340,000 university students, with more than 3,080 higher education titles, with more than sixteen research centres, with more than thirty science and technology parks, more than thirty thousand researchers. We generate a total of 1.7_percent of Catalan GDP and 1.5 of Catalan employment. We are already the fifth country of the European Union in search fund capture and the most attractive territories of southern Europe in investment. Women sometimes give more scientific production than the world media. There is already a total of 8,642 foreign companies established in Catalan territories, which means, since 2016, an increase of 22_per_cent. But when we get to know each other, we're all conscious – and we see that we're leaders, these past few weeks, at campus level, at the level of scientific production, of teaching –... we have a duty to know how to pass it on to society. And this must be our great goal to contribute to the country's improved competitiveness and the well-being of Catalans and Catalans. The higher education system and the search system generating innovation and technological development must be a tool for the economy in favour of added value, wealth and also of occupation, quality occupation. Without going any further, in the files of this legislature, one of them must be, without doubt, the law of science, a law of science that must be a strategic tool for consolidation as a structural element of the country and to advance towards an objective of progress. Therefore, a comprehensive strategy of transfer generation and knowledge application that allows effective collaboration between university and research institutions with companies, this business and knowledge binomial. And on this line we have worked tirelessly – we have done so in the later term of office – and we are still moving forward. We want to follow the will and the deployment of the National Pact for the Society of Knowledge a reality, as agreed that for special attention to the reality that we live in Catalonia as the ecosystem at the level of singular knowledge, with a 99_percent of peppers and the fact that, ending from the separation of tertiary education carried out in the 1970s for the Spanish State, we have heredity discontinuities between higher university and non-university education. For this reason, from the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is an indispensable necessity for the model of country that we defend and that we share, free, independent, prosperous, social justice and economic progress. We know of his commitment, he will advise, to the development of a standard framework for Catalonia that responds to the needs of the system and that takes into account the uniqueness of the Catalan model in front of the Spanish model. It is not an example, as I mentioned earlier, of the law of science, but I would not want to forget either of the law of sponsorship, which is also an important challenge for this legislature. Or its will to vertebrate the country we want from the territories, from the smallest people to the largest city, in the field of knowledge, opportunities, formation and occupation, retention of talent. We don't want our friends, our friends, companies, companies, and young people, generation after generation, to leave their rightful place to look for a project of their own. We want you to stay, we want you to retain that talent, and we want other young people to come to Catalonia. And, of course, the historical claim of the university sector for the better of financing or, as you mentioned earlier, the transfer of scholarships, so much so claimed to the Spanish State, or the impulse of wage scholarships. We have seen the results of the first days of government in the department, and from the group we want to take advantage to put into value the taking of uncertain decisions about, for example, the vaccination of students in mobility programs– important–, the support of the council to young people accused of a vague student with absolutely disproportionate – disproportionate – feathers, the equipping of the master's price to the degree and the defense of the català to selectivity, with the deployment of evidence of access to the impeccable university, as he has explained. And, finally, I would like to, in the band, therefore, to thank her for her effort, her constancy, this continuous work for the young and with the young, also to thank her as she has been with all the professionals of the university, but also for the research, making of those absences and those fevers of the context..., revert it to opportunities of the future. Go ahead, counselor. We expect your answer because you can explain to us and define who are the strategic lines of the council of this legislature, but above all about the stake for a society of knowledge that must make us prosper, that will advance. And we will do so with the unequivocal support of law enforcement, because research and development are a key sector that we want to be robust and forward-looking, because the future belongs to the nations that innovate and are transformed. And finally, I wouldn't want to forget to spell out a very well-known phrase from Nelson Mandela that says: "Education is the most powerful weapon to change the world. And I would also like to add that higher education is also the best weapon to change the world as a tool of progress and future that we will build together. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.11.0	Thank you very much. Now the Research and University Advisor is back, to make her answer. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.12.0	Well, Mrs Toronjo, thank you very much for your inquiry. I think you've had a lot of deures, huh? in academic terms, which we have pending, and I am sure that with the collaboration of all the Members, because I think the country needs it, we will try to push them forward. I face this challenge with the will of public service, and, as I have many days with these researchers and researchers with whom I have been able to speak, and teachers, teachers, students..., to try to flatten the way of research and universities in this country. What's going on, the first thing I have to do as a Research and University Advisor today is show my support to the professor and the former Research and University Advisor, Professor Mas-Colell. It seems to me that it is a paradigmatic fact that, after so many years that we have been able to recover this advice, the first person to do this advice... is a person who is triggering solidarity with the world's most powerful universities in the face of this Court of Auditors and this repression. That it's not just Professor Andreu Mas-Colell's case, but also the case of public students, or yesterday we also had another case, and what it does is that..., a country to normalize prison sentences and sentences and requests for prison is not normal. Therefore, the first one I wanted to do was to convey my solidarity with Professor Mas-Colell. In fact, the week we'll have an audience at the councilhouse because I get the support of the research and university councilhouse on behalf of the whole country, which is a person of international prestige. And, therefore, the first one to do was this. Second: in which context is it created the counseling? Miri, you said so. One of the objectives – and we'll have time to discuss it with all the Members – is to forge this advice so that there's no more government..., a Research and University advice, regardless of who's encapsulating it. I believe that it is very important for this country to focus, in terms of entrepreneurship, on the prisons, on the debates, on the councils executed, on the agendas of the committees here in Parliament, on the search for universities in this country, because I believe that it is the country that, regardless of how many of us think, links us; that it is a country where talent, knowledge, education, innovation, talent, transfer and this social commitment, which is inseparable from the universities, because it is the third... We talk about the missions of the university: teaching, research and transfer, but also about the size and the critical compromise, and should it be that it is supposed to be living in the world, and is it a university? I don't care what the positioning is. Therefore, these dimensions associated with your universities have planted them. Because it is fixed that in the CEO, when he refers to which of the institutions were better valued for citizenship, therefore, the universities always form part of the first places; therefore, they are very well repugnant. But what we also need is this public debate so that we can get to society, even more strongly, which are the main reversals: how the university system impacts, the research and the transfer to society in the citizenry, in the progress, in the development of each of the citizens of this country, because what it does is that it is much easier to demand public funding, which I agree – and I think we all agree – that must be important in this legislature. Plus, when you were talking, right? , from this country we want, one of the obsessions – and I say so because it will be so – is that I believe that, in the country, economic recovery should not be given only for Barcelona, that it obviously has its strength, but that research, universities, transfer and search centers, teachers..., all that forms part of this university research network in the country has to make the economic recovery of the country go at the same speed, eh? We, who believe the country in its diversity and in its globality, are deeply obsessed that these foundations of recovery and that research and university can be tractors of this recovery from all over the country in its globality. In fact, in the structure of the council, which I hope I will soon be able to close... I think this will already be a fact to make clear that this will be a priority policy for the country, huh? , be able to branch – branch – and reach the whole country. As for the challenges of the knowledge society, I think we have an agreement here, parliamentarians, that it is the National Pact for the knowledge society, that it is a pact forged for entities, universities, student unions, PAS unions, everyone. And so, here are some country pillars that respect what is the model of society we want and what we need to look forward to. Obviously, you refer to the research funding, which must be increased, to the basic funding of universities. I think we also need to make an uncomplicated bet for scientific mecenating. The other day I was in a center and there were people who gave me the need – and, besides, with the pandemic we have seen it – to empower this scientific mecenating. And, therefore, in this sense... so he's also in politics. You were talking about the ugly reference to ranquings. We need to keep working because the ranks, therefore, are a mark of excellence in our university, but we also need to make a talent-gathering plan, that is to say, that I did not leave the talent we have and can capture talent from outside. I also said this weekend that I need to improve the conditions of researchers and researchers as well. I don't get it many times why researchers and researchers, because they're researchers, have to have different working conditions than the rest, huh? And so, here we have to work, and we'll get where we can, right? But I think that's important too. Another important element is the elimination of bureaucracy and administrative simplification. The other day he talked to a researcher and said, "Look, counselor, I don't want to ask for this project because it brings me a little bit of documentation. If we want to be effective and we want to be agile, we need to be compatible with an administrative system of universities, huh? , which allows the efficiency and retention of accounts– because they are public money–..., that there are no investigators, that there are no projects– and we all know it– because it is one and a half or two months of documentation and more documentation. Therefore, in this sense, it will also be a policy that, in addition, does not have a presuppositional impact, and I believe, from the advice, that can be very repulsive to reactivate and to help the sector. When he was talking about the National Covenant for the Society of Knowledge... obviously, what do we have to assume? More public and private investment, better finance, also establish this decentralisation, and the law of science to which you refer. I hope to be able to take her to Parliament before the summer, and therefore the deputies and deputies will then have the honour and responsibility to advance this law, which has also been very consensual and which I believe is a pioneer law. When we referred to what impact the financing has to have, then R & D should be assimilation of 2,12_percent of GDP, huh? , increase public spending from 0.58 to 0.75 and also increase this private sponsorship. Besides, I think it's very important – and you're referring to it – the transfer of knowledge. There's a lot of research in Catalan universities, but we have to be sure that there's a return to society and, therefore, enhance this pot of transference in many areas. Because when we talk about research, then, in the field of social sciences, humanities, the economy, the legal sphere, the scientific sphere, the technological sphere... Therefore, the transfer in all its globality I believe must be one of the bets, too, of the country that we have to make. I think it's going to be warm now too – we're referring to it, it's in the pact, because there's a lot of measures –..., the need to improve the scientific infrastructure and university infrastructure of this country. When you talk to the rectors and rectors about what is the situation of the infrastructures of the different universities, so... I think we'll have to make a plan here too to improve them. Obviously, the topic of basic funding of university research. And you made a reference, and I explained last week, that it was an agreement of the CIC, which is the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia, which is part of the Rectors and Rectors, the presidents of the social councils of universities, the unions of students and the representatives of the PAS, in which there was this agreement to approve a decrease of 40_percent of the masters, and, moreover, 4_percent of the masters who are professionally qualified. And this will now go to the Executive Board so that you can approve. I think it's important, at a time when... I always say..., when they say: "We have to make policies for the young man, I say: "No, we have to make policies with the young man, which is different. And so, when we're young, we have to do politics, we need this horticulture. And the ability to master, I think, a price that goes from two thousand to 1,600 euros... I think it's important, because, if not, when we talk about equal opportunities, we all know that to have a degree and not to have a master, so, condition in the labor market. And, therefore, I believe that this is an opportunity that, as the system of this equal opportunity, is important. Therefore, I think we can debate and I will be very pleased to do so, and not only in an inquiry by Junts for Catalonia, or by Ciutadans – more in conflict – but by proposals in place for the country. I will be very receptive to the proposals that make the search and university system better, because I think we are at an important time, and, more importantly, because I think that as the system we have this opportunity, this seal to forge this consultancy, that universities and researchers have made this effort, right? , this focus to get these cows, and therefore the need to bet on this has been seen. And, in this sense, all the cooperation of this councillor and of the councillor's team because this is possible. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the measures envisaged to combat the increase in hate crimes]] [[300-00017/13]] Let's move on to the fifteenth point of the order of the day – because Mrs Toronjo will no longer use the turn of the line – which is the question to the Government about the measures planned to deal with the increase in hate crimes. It is an inquiry submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, and has the word MP Núria Picas to make the presentation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.14.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, councillor, councillor, deputies and deputies. In the past few weeks, hate crimes have increased worryingly in our society, to the point that in the last decade it has multiplied by three. Certainly, this is something that concerns us, and a lot, and it tells us that we must continue to work to achieve full equality and advance day after day in this direction, to a society we want and pretend to be: a society free of discrimination. Unfortunately, this will is constantly shattered. In fact, and without going far enough, last June 1st, a statement was voted in this same chamber, to the Board of Spokesmen, which condemned the six homophobic attacks that took place in Barcelona in the same week. A conviction that did not hold the unanimous recovery for the opposition, the positioning by the extreme right here and now present. These facts, like others that unfortunately happen in our society, are intolerable, and they can't hold a head. It's more, we reject and condemn LGTBifóbic rapes, and it is clear that there is a unanimous need from the streets, but also from the institutions. [[Some applause.]] No crime linked to hatred and discrimination by reason of origin, belonging to ethnic group, sex, orientation or identity of gender, religion or belief, ability, disability, age or other social or personal condition may be unpunished. Therefore, we shield diversity. The Catalan Republic we want to be must be free of discrimination. And that means, too, a society that is particularly secure for the most vulnerable. The present world in which we are living is very changing, it is a very diverse world, every time more globalized, and this diversity encompasses all the collectivities, and also, obviously, our bodies and forces of security, which they must represent and hear at the time this society is so diverse. In the face of hate crimes and all their expressions, we need a squadron movement that safeguards and guarantees human rights and deploys the equal treatment and non-discrimination law to fight these crimes every time more present. Certainly, we have a police thing that carries many years fighting these hate crimes and that until today continues to do a very important job. In short, the professionals of public administrations must constantly do these tasks of prevention, intervention, detection, attention, assistance and recovery. We would therefore like to know what your department will do to combat this increase in the significance of hate crimes. Because, we insist, I insist, in the current situation of social crisis and of pandemic fatigue, the speeches of hatred – speeches that, as we say, are promoted by certain political formations, an increase of extreme right-wing groups that does not foresee a very favorable future scenario –... The speeches of hatred, therefore, are in the street, but they have also arrived at our institutions; but, fortunately, in this chamber we have blocked fascism, and we want our society to do so as well. We are, therefore, faced with a very worrying reality, with a problem that calls for an effective and effective response: people who, in order to be what they want to be and how they suffer persecution and even physical aggression that they cannot tolerate. And that's why we'd like to know that your department is on it, that the department is wired to the needle, and that's why we want to know which set of actions is expected to come to an end from when we start this new stage. In fact, this week we have read in the press that at the end of the summer a new operating unit that is absolutely innovative in the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, the Central Unit of Crimes of Odi and Discrimination will be ready. And this initiative would please us, Mr. Counselor, to detail it. We know and are aware that our goal is to ensure effective equality. This is our idea of the future, but also present. So, what is it going to do from now on to continue to guarantee all these rights? What are the mechanisms that will be available to citizens from the department to end direct and indirect discrimination and hate crimes? What are your goals, now that you've taken this interior council? And, for what it does to us, we have a common and very clear objective: the eradication of racism, the eradication of xenophobia, of the LGTBIphobia and any other cases of discrimination that attempt against the equality and dignity of all people; defend, protect and guarantee human rights. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.15.0	Then... yes, Mr. Garriga, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.16.0	President, for the 87th, for allusions, to make a denial of what was just being done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.17.0	For allusions?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.18.0	Yeah. He said that we had not condemned homophobia at the Spokesman's Meeting, and I did so repeatedly, condemning homophobic attacks. I would like to correct this intervention, for the sake of allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.19.0	But, for a moment, did you feel directly praised? Did the VOX Group mention it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.20.0	Yeah, yeah. [[Widow's remorse.]] Because at the Spokesman's Meeting I repeatedly, that you were there...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.21.0	I was there on board day, actually.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.22.0	... I repeated three, four, five times that we strongly condemned the homophobic attacks, but we could not sign that statement – you were there – for an ideological theme, because it contained education and so on. But the sentence was clear and repeated.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.23.0	All right, perfect. You made the explanation you made to the Spokesman's Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.24.0	And I'd love to... if I could make amends, the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.25.0	One moment... we'll give her the word, because she didn't mention a specific group, but I told her that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.26.0	No, but he said that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.27.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.28.0	...to the Board of Spokesmen we did not condemn the homophobic act and we did.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.29.0	I'll give the deputy the word if she wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.30.0	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.31.0	Do you want to make some intervention, the deputy?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.32.0	I didn't mention him directly. I think my position is perfectly clear, but by allusions I find that this gentleman is not right. So there's nothing more to say. And if they've felt disappointed, something must be. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Exactly. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.33.0	Keep going. He's got the word "Interior Counselor" now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.34.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, MPs, MPs. Congresswoman, thank you for your intervention. Indeed, hate crimes are increasing. And it's true that here, and also from the world, speeches are spreading in which the stigma is normal, it's normal to clean it up which is different. That's what's always happened. Perhaps in current societies, for communication media and ease in transmitting information, this is more so, but it is true that hate crimes have increased, and it is indisputable that this parallelism between the growth of hate speech, of stigmatization of difference... there is a direct relationship. That is why it is also essential that from public administrations, from those representing citizens and citizens, it is very clear on this issue, and it is clear that it will pursue discrimination on the grounds of sex. The Spanish Constitution must be read in full, and sometimes those who appeal most to constitutionalism do not obliterate some of the articles that surely came from the struggle of many and many people, from minorities and from the periphery, and that are forgotten in the tide of constitutional patriotism that engulfs another constitutionalism, which is that of human rights and the rights and rights of citizens. It is good, therefore, that when the legal texts are read, they are read honestly and apply everything that is said; for example, the right to housing, the right to work and the right not to be discriminated against, and the duty of the administrations to pursue and protect the people who are, against discrimination. The honourable Member said that in the last two years, crimes have multiplied by three. That's bad news, but she's got one of her hopes up, too, and it's that the citizens, every time they report it. And this seems to us to be very positive, and in this line we are working. In the first quarter of the year, there were ninety-three incidents, ninety-three cases, that are ninety-three people who have suffered extraordinary discrimination, that after there are families, they have been around, there is a lot of patience, there is a lot of humiliation and there is a lot of pain, beyond the physical aggression that the person has. And this natural crime against the LGTBI+ collection has increased by 20_per_cent. Therefore, from this point of view, we are compromised. It is this reason for which symbolically – because it was only a symbolic gesture, at that time – the first act where I participated as a counselor was precisely that of the Observer against Homophobia, to identify a problem that exists, hard, in our society and that can fight. We have the obligation to have a look, to give a look and to show a look wider than safety is. Security is a lot of things, and security is also the right of citizens to walk as they are, without fear of being persecuted, being humiliated and being assaulted. And from this point of view, our commitment, I repeat, is unalterable. Things have been done the past few years, unquestionably, since the training of the officers, because this requires training to hold the sensitivity and knowledge of which is this reality, and in the basic course of the police they are given training, the officers, specialized in this sector..., and also specific training to groups of agents who work directly to combat this crime. There has also been an important job in consulting, telematics, and a specific plan has been created to facilitate attention during the pandemic, which has been especially cruel to everyone, and in particular to people who suffer discrimination. And this work has to be followed, it has to be multiplied, and it has to be made new. What's the compromise? We said to ratify ourselves in the fight against hate crimes and the creation of some new measures, apart from those I have designated. The creation of the office of hate crimes; it is a space in which not only are complaints received in a telematic way, but also that, in addition, it is proactive fans of sensitization to schools, businesses, barrels, associated movement..., society in general. Because it wants pedagogy; it wants action from administrations and security forces, but it also wants pedagogy. And, on the other hand, the creation of a unit of hate crimes with fifteen highly specialized agents, which will have the function of following and overseeing these hate crimes, investigating the most complex cases, training, awareness-raising actions, and also pursuing recidivism, and, in particular, pursuing the organization, because there are also organizations, often, behind these networks. Therefore, from this point of view, not only to sensitize, but also to act, that they are two gazes, let's say, two indestriable functions. The goal is to reduce crimes, obviously; to pursue those that provoke them; to be aware, to investigate, to do a work of awareness and investigation of what is behind all these movements and all these practices. And also an element that is essential, and here is the task of awareness also internal and of the own society, of the « secondary victimization, which goes away; the double victimization of the person who suffers from the aggression: when the patient and when later there has been misunderstanding sometimes for the own administrations, when there is a stretch of places where you have to go to explain one time and another to the very same thing that has happened to you, again patenting a victimization for this repeated explanation. From this point of view, measures are also being applied – and this has to do with the office and the crime unit – to avoid this peril that people who report victimization often have to suffer. Our aim from the advice – I have said it repeatedly – is to guarantee fundamental rights and to have a broader view of security, which is not only from the point of view of reaction, that many times it is inevitable and necessary, but also of security understood from a more integral form, which obviously implies reaction, but also awareness and accompanying victims. That's our goal. In this line we will work, in this idea of public security addressed to all citizens, and, in particular, to the most vulnerable people, and in this case, to the people who suffer discrimination. In this work, there are, and we trust that in a while we can say that the victims of this type of hate crime have been reduced. And, above all, one more important thing, and it is that, when someone has the feeling or the suspicion that they can suffer, they feel the need and the confidence to address public administrations, because they will know that there will find the follow-up they need in this case. Many thanks, deputies, president, councillor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.35.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation of children's education]] [[302-0003/13]] As there will be no reply, let's move on to the division of the order of the day, which is the motion following the question to the Government about the situation of children's education. It is presented by the Group Mixt, and to expose it has the word Mrs Eva Parera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.36.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. I would also like to thank you for allowing this change in the order of the day, because I have a few commissions after, at twelve, and it was impossible for me to defend this inquiry. I was very hard in the past full with the government with the question I asked about the role I was playing in the schools, especially the private and social initiative. I think that this is a paper that has to make the opposition, be critical, but I think that a responsible opposition is not just being critical, but that it is also putting in value what I think is doing well and putting in value when there is a willingness to work together. And I think that's what I need to do here today, and put that in value. I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups, which have practically all the members of the chamber, who have submitted papers to the text. I believe that there have been some elements that have really sought to improve the text, because it was clearly better, and I doubt that they have succeeded, with the elements that have contributed to it. And I also want to thank you that it was very easy to find a consensus on what we didn't just see-a fit with the proposal you were making. And I think it's been very simple – at least it's the perception that I didn't have – finding this fits with all the groups and being able to fit in the items that they presented to us. To tell those groups that their thoughts have not been accepted by us... is not because we do not consider them good, just simply because they seemed to distort a little the object that this young man was looking for, right? And this young man was pursuing a threefold objective. The first objective pursued by the movement was to put into value the education system from zero to three years that we currently have, which is made up of public schools, private schools and social initiatives. And I think the text recognizes that. The second objective was to find a solution to all this proliferation of offers a little... that remain as alleged, that they are making a disillusioned competition, and, what is more worrying, that they are left out of the control and approval of the Government of Catalonia and that, therefore, they are colliding with children aged from zero to three years, because it is necessary to have certain conditions to be able to collate them and not to comply. And I believe that this is also reflected in the text of the motion. And the third objective was to work to find adequate funding to maintain the current system that we have from zero to three years of education. Besides, with an addition to trying to find a solution for those families who want to school their infants who are not able to attend public school, so, obviously, the public offer is not enough for the demand there is, and who run the risk of not attending their infants because of the cost difference that a private children's home may have, right? And I think that this is also collected in this young man, with the papers that will be presented to us by all the groups. I think this is a first step. I don't know how it will end – after the vote we'll see – the final text, but I'm very optimistic. I think there will be a good text, which will lay the groundwork for working from the consensus that we have reached at the time of negotiating the transactions in this young man. I think it's a good basis on these three goals, on which we have to keep working until we finally get to actually achieve the universalization of the zero to three-year stage and gratuity. That it's not simple, it's a small task, it's a difficult task, but I think that, a little in line we've marked with this young man, so we can dodge the impediments that we find ourselves in, make it easier for everyone to school their children, make it easier for them to keep the children who are open, make it easier for them to open up to nine people, both public and private, and keep working on this line. Many thanks to you all for working together at this time of work. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.37.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, before starting the turn of interventions for the defense of the papers that each group has presented, I am sure that the VOX Parliamentary Group has withdrawn its papers. For this reason, the words of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites pour Avançar, Mrs Esther Niubó, will now be used to defend the views of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.38.0	Thank you. Good morning, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen... The PP presents us with a proposal on children's education that it is certain that in its original writing it was very focused, almost exclusively, on private children's homes. But I would very much like to thank the Member of Parliament who has accepted a good part of the Socialist Group's and Unites for moving forward, which will make it possible for us to vote in favour of the majority. We start from the recognition of the very important task that the schools of Bressol and children of private ownership and social initiative, an educational and social function. And we don't have a problem saying they realize what it looks like to us to be a public health service in a welfare state. A service that would not support itself without the 653 lllars of private title, the 916 of municipal title, to the band of the 42 of the Department of Education. But until today, and different from what has been going on for eight years and until the course passed with the municipal schools, which have been abandoned in their financing by the Government of the Generality and still have exclusive skills, private children's homes or at the worst time of the retails have seen their subsidy eliminated, and we celebrate it. The fact is that the academic community has actively and passively highlighted the important role of the zero-three educational stage in the development of infants and their impact on both the reduction of inequalities and the promotion of subsequent educational success, and since the PSC we have been claiming its importance. And it seems that the Government of the Generality is willing to rectify; we will see that. Now, let me keep our sceptics. We've been listening to Republican Left in an electoral campaign to talk about universality and progressive gratuity, but the reality is that they haven't even paid the debt pending the gatherings, which for years have supported this service over their spaces. We have seen them express it also in the agreement of government, in the agreement with the CUP, but they have not even recovered the financing of the third of the cost of the school square Bressol/year that was agreed eleven years ago with the municipal world. I insist, so much for this good will, therefore, that they did not remain in a paper, but that they bring it to practice, that they seek political and social consensus with the assemblies, with the sector, and that we see it translated into the proper assumptions. We'll be very much on your initiative, but I'm warning you that we're not going to accept an abandonment of the sector again as it did years ago on the part of the government. Our proposal and our compromise are very clear: to expand public places of quality Bressol schools in order to guarantee this universalization and thus promote the educational opportunities of children, equity, work opportunities and family formation – conciliation, in short. And we understand that we can build new public equipment where there is a need and a lack of supply, or also by subsidizing seats in those areas of private ownership in case they are well conditioned and can guarantee a quality service. But where we can't agree, it's a matter of exceptions, isn't it? – in the case of rural school areas, for example – it would be to break the high quality education model like that of zero to three years, which is what would happen if the P2 were incorporated into primary or second-cycle children's schools. And, as Assumpta Baig rightly said, she is ex-parliamentary of Catalonia and president of the Marta Mata Foundation, in a recent article in The Diari de l'Educació..., she said: "Why is this fever now wanting to break a cycle that you felt in it itself? If there is plenty of space in the schools, we reduce rates, we make more groups, we improve the quality of education. And if we want two-year-olds to have a free place, which would be time, we'll help the joints maintain their offer. We couldn't agree more with that statement. Infuse the P2 to schools would only meet an economic and educational criteria, and, moreover, we understand that it would not help to improve by itself access to the system. If we want universal schooling in two years, we first have a map of the supply of children available to assess their sufficiency and to be able to plan correctly, compensate for social inequalities and also territorial inequalities. We are increasing the number of public places of Bressol schools according to the need for schooling, with demography; we are increasing aid for the most vulnerable and most needing access to this stage of education for their children; we are increasing the participation of the Government of the Generality in the financing and promotion of Bressol schools by social charging, and we are taking advantage of the large amount of resources that the Spanish Government will transfer to encourage schooling at this stage of education as announced by Minister Celaá. Miri has things to do. The warning that this will be one of the issues that will be closed in this legislature for the PSC, and that from the alternate government we will also work to ensure that the goal of universalization of schooling from zero to three years is done to guarantee the educational and service quality. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.39.0	Next, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ignacio Martín, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.40.0	Thank you, President. Well, good morning. We find ourselves in front of a young man who really, from the Grupo Parlamentari in Ciutadans, we consider that it is essentially reasonable, accessible. We believe that, in fact, our system of education in this precise range of non-mandatory teaching from zero to three years suffers from considerable dysfunctions that they have to see above all with a conception, so clearly it would be a good idea to go a little bit into public-private relationships, the ability of parents to choose how to educate their children. And from this point of view, we believe that it is essential that some of the requests that this motion actually foresees be made. We regret that our papers have not been accepted, because we considered that they greatly improved the text, but it is obvious that there is a need for a dialogue, for a sincere and honest dialogue to be established between the sector and the educational community, because I believe that many times there is a lack of communication with this sector of our education system, that it is the schools in Bressol or the schools of private children, a fundamental part of our education fabric and that I believe that it really complements our education system in a very interesting way, if not our education system. From here, we believe that it is indeed essential that efforts be made by the Generality, which has been leaving them to no avail in the last few years, to help them to the homes of private children and social initiative. And we believe that this shows an ideological climate, a way of doing things from the Administration that clearly focused on the loss of private initiative, the loss of all the projects that I have to see with concertation and even with the private sphere. I believe that in education, as in so many other areas of our public life, the participation of the private sector is fundamental. And until now – those of us who know, and those who aren't – it's obvious that the private homes have been a foundational complement to the public daycare service, the public daycare service, and that I think it's been little recognized by public administrations. That's why the sector..., when you talk to representatives of the sector, they show a great contrast, a great enthusiasm for the way they've been historically treated for public administration. And from this point of view, we believe that it is essential that there is a compromise on the part of all the public administrations involved in this section of the education of our children, let us say, in order to be able to reach an agreement, a general agreement on a question that is, I insist, so important to all of us. From this point of view, it is essential to reverse inequalities and inefficiencies – the lack of equity – that is currently in our education system from zero to three years. I believe that it is a question of justice, of common sense, that helps reconciliation, that makes it easier for the parents we work and have children to maintain a development, a career path that is adient, that is adequate and that allows us to develop as professionals without giving up, logically, the care of our infants. And that's why we consider that, in general, everything you foresee this young man is more reasonable, and we will support the whole practice of the young man. Yes, it is true that what you say to keep P2, the first cycle of childhood education, in order to continue to offer an educational attention that encompasses the first three years of life..., we consider that from this point of view, there must surely be a capacity to have, once more, what we say before: a debate, a rational dialogue about how this measure can be applied in economic terms, in educational terms, and to what extent this is the most important, the most reasonable for the teaching of our children, that we actually consider that, if not, it is a question that admits a certain controversy. Therefore, we will give support to the motion essentially, and we hope that it will be the beginning of a series of motions in this sense that wanders in the line of improving the education of our children from zero to three years.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.41.0	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Erra spoke.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.42.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs... Before we start this education movement, I'd like to give support to an education-world companion, in this case, Mr. Marcel Vivet, because he's patenting a disproportionate feeling that adds up to..., more than three thousand reprisals, we already have, and we're patenting like the country. Even so, starting with the young man, I would like to reaffirm, therefore, that we all know that education is, let's face it, one of the pillars of the future of our society. And we focus above all, on this young man, in the first years of life, a few early years that we know are the key to the formation of our children. Zero-three-year education is a key step in acquiring the learning and skills needed for children's lives and educational progress. It is especially important for those children and children who cannot count on the educational support of their families at home, and for whom Bressol school is a resource. For all this, from Juntes we are clear that the commitment to education must be firm, and as Juntes we will work to achieve universal access to the first cycle of childhood education, from zero to three years, as a social and educational reversal that guarantees, in terms of fairness, a good development in the first childhood, a key factor to achieve educational success and to facilitate family reconciliation. We are also very clear about the current educational network system, and that we need to work for the entire network's viability. The trajectory of the current Bressol schools... they're a good old man, and you can stand beside them with whatever support you need, since the work you do is transcendental. And we are well aware that the complement that offers us dual public and private supply to the social initiative is necessary to cover the needs of the existing demand. Already in the government pact that was made between Esquerra and Juntes on education we committed ourselves to increasing the educational assumption to bring us closer to the 6_per_cent of GDP; also to work for the universalization and progressive gratuity of education in the zero-three years from ensuring a sufficient and quality offer and integrating the whole educational network, and also to develop a policy of help that allows everyone to access it. We believe that advancing towards universalization at this stage is a key strategy to reduce social and educational inequalities. For all this, in the different points of the motion on this subject we have found a point of agreement, because we understand the need to age for all schools and schools of private children and social initiative, because they are and are part of the current network of our education system, as well as the importance of seeking measures to encourage and improve the enrolment rate of the first cycle of children's education. I, in this sense, begin to achieve free P2, but in no case risk the current educational network of zero-three years, neither public nor private. The objective, in this sense, is to grow in the offer and seek measures to promote access to it, not to change its existing structure. On the point that he spoke of the payment of the debts to the joints in concept of promotion and financing of the schools bressol of municipal title, at these moments, of extended assumption, is already contemplated a match to make to this measure collected to the law of assumptions, and the department has the full will to give-answer to it. Now, on point 6, which is asking for a new rescue plan for the homes of private children and social initiative, at the moment..., and aware of the complicated situation that is lived in the moment of pandemic, it has already approved an extraordinary grant where it was made a game of more than 8_million euros, but it must be said that for the course 19-20. If it is understood that this course 20-21, where the schools have proved to be safe places and have been able to regularize their activity, no more extraordinary economic resources have been allocated in this sense. With all this, we agree, at point 7, that we must move forward together to ensure the freeness and universality of the zero to three-year stage to face and reverse inequalities in schooling for the young child with the whole educational network existing and analysing demand needs, even in areas where they are not covered. And, of course, this will happen if we get a funding model that ensures its viability and sustainability and allows for wider access to all children than this schooling requires. We are clear that betting on child education is betting on the success of our children and children. And here, since Junts, we would thank all our efforts. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.43.0	Thank you very much. And, then, for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mònica Palacín MP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.44.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, MPs, MPs... First of all, thank Congresswoman Parera for her willingness to agree and work together, also with Congresswoman Niubó, for having made a partial but almost complete agreement of the House, with the transaction of some of her points. We share and celebrate, therefore, being able to share the need to guarantee the education of the zero-three to all the families of the country, that the economic criterion does not follow a filter in the education of this stage and that, at the same time, we can also help to make a change of thought instituted to the society, that is that the list of children is only for families working and that therefore require this use of this educational stage in the custody of the children. We must begin to think, we must change this mental mark, that the zero-three stage is a part of the growth of infants both for their cognitive growth, for their cognitive development, and for socialization. And, as I have already commented to the Members at the time of the negotiation, it is not proposed to change the structure of the two cycles of childhood education, since because of the characteristic of infants they need to keep them differentiated– zero-three, three-yes. Therefore, it is indisputable, and therefore the fact that P2 will continue to form part of the initial cycle of the child education stage. We read this young man largely as the will to preserve this first stage of early childhood education from the first cycle and make it essential for families, to have a tool of country that works from the first stages against segregation, and, therefore, to offer the same opportunities to all children in the country. The department's willingness was clear in this sense, and its goal is to work for the freeness of this first cycle of child education to increase the number of enrolments. And there is a significant percentage of students in these uneducated ages that allows universal schooling. Therefore, the offer must continue to grow, as well as measures to promote access to it are implemented. All current places on offer are necessary, and work to generate more needed places so that the families see that this is an opportunity for their children. And it is for this reason that a constant dialogue is maintained with the three associations that form part of this area – the world of public children, social initiative and the private – because this is the reality that we have at this time in the country, and therefore we must count with everyone. And he's doing it, the counselor. We know that yesterday he met with the Catalan Association of Children's Llars – the association of children's Llars of Catalonia – and the Coordinator of Schools Bressol of Catalonia; a meeting where his proposals were gathered, and, together, he will settle this great educational challenge of the country. For what he does at the point where we have not been able to agree with the Member..., it is point number 5, because we understand – and that is why we will abstain – that the current situation, of presuppositional prorogation, already contemplates the game to deal with the debt that the Generality gives to children's larties. It is collected in the law of assumptions, and this is the will: to finance both the cost of the square, for a band, as the return of the financing that was stopped taking effect the course 2012. This payment schedule and these established modules, which involve the return of the financing, are recognized to all the municipalities of Catalonia, regardless of whether they have claimed the payment administratively or judicially, as it could not be otherwise. It will also help us a lot a fact that has named Congresswoman Niubó, and it is that the Government of the State will be involved in financing the universalization of zero-three thanks to a motion proposed for Republican Left to Congress of Deputies. And point number six, so, it's referring to helping out private children's homes. This help, this extraordinary grant was collected for the 2019 course, given that, for the measures donated to the covid, they had to be closed. And this 2020-2021 course could be open to all measures; therefore, this package of aid, which exceeded €8 million, is not envisaged. Finally, with reference to how we move forward with this zero-three gratuity, we consider it important to make the last point, the set point. And I will end with a sentence of our own, which has been incorporated into it, which is that of: "It is necessary to develop a policy of help that allows all children in poor and vulnerable situations to gain priority access and that is to recognize the current centres. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.45.0	Next, to fix his position, has the word Mr. Manuel Jesús Acosta, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.46.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Counsellor, honourable Members... Do you know that 41_per_cent of the families who apply to school their children in some kindergarten, public bressol school or public llar d'infantes in Lérida, 34_per_cent in Barcelona and 32_per_cent in Gerona will not have a place this year? The Generalitat de Catalunya, instead of spending energy and resources on rupturistic ideological policies, such as linguistic imposition, totalitarian control of the media or the duplicity of administrations, should strive to prioritize effective measures in favour of family reconciliation, because the family is the basic cell of society. A society based on the values that are transmitted and that are breathed within the family is a mature society. These values, for example, are love between parents and children, the education of affections, the spirit of service, respect for the person, respect for cultural, historical and religious traditions, order, discipline... As I say, all these values make a society mature and ready to cope successfully with the problems and difficulties of a human, social, economic nature that will have to be faced daily. Life is the most precious gift we have. And, therefore, the collaboration in transmitting the and ensuring it is an exercise that must be applauded and recognised. It is often said that children are the illusion, are the joy of parents, and it is true, indeed, but they also energize society and make it possible to become – that of society – in the future. Thus, the phase from zero to three years is a fundamental period in the motor, cognitive, emotional, emotional and social development of the child. If families, for economic reasons, are obliged to delegate a subsidiary part of the training and care of their children to a kindergarten, the Administration must be up to it. We can therefore say that the proposal for the Joint Group motion is common sense. And, therefore, it is true that we must advocate for the support of the institutions, the public administrations, the public and private schools. The intrusiveness of establishments lacking adequate educational characteristics must also be avoided. The P2 cycle has to be maintained in the first cycle of education on the basis of obvious pedagogical criteria. And, on the other hand, we have to demand the payment of the Generalitat to the municipalities. By the way, this is a classic, isn't it? The Government's pertinent institutional morosity leaves municipalities and families unprotected. Finally, the sixth point, too, so... it is true that the second rescue plan must be executed to alleviate the negative effects of the covid. In this respect, in point 6, we have to say that we do not think that the minimum budget of EUR 9 million that you demand is very small. Because I'm going to tell you: a 10_per_cent of the kindergartens in Catalonia have had to close already last week, and 2,500 places for families have disappeared and 1,200 contracts have been extinguished. Therefore – therefore – it seems to us little, this. Finally, we have to build the house from the foundations, not from the roof. And, therefore, the first thing to do is to ask families about the preference in choosing the kindergarten they want for their children, and, from this data, to plan the places to offer, and not the other way around. In addition, this guarantees the freedom of establishment of educational institutions and the right of parents to choose the type of religious and human formation they want for their children, as provided for in article 27 of the Spanish Constitution and article 21 of the Statute of Autonomy. Therefore, at this seventh point, we will be against it, because we understand that there is a need to plan 'as a result of demand and that the administrations consult the families with the preference of electing the educational centre for the planning of places to be offered. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.47.0	The words "Deputy Carles Riera", on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Winning", continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.48.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, in the first place, say that we are not surprised by this coincidence of settlements between the People's Party, Esquerra, Junts for Catalonia and the PSC, to which Ciutadans and VOX – friends and friends of Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra – are now added, perhaps they should reflect with whom friends are moving in this beginning of the legislature... –, embodied in the transactional issues. We could talk about a "socio-vergent", shared with the PP, based on the defense and consolidation of a public-private education model. It is said, a regulated market that, in the case of children's education, and if this motion were approved, would consolidate an educational offer of mostly private provision, and therefore, obviously, generating segregation, injustice and inequality. Even when free and universalisation is put in place, it is proposing a strategic plan that consolidates, in compulsory education, a double network with public, municipal or national funding, and this would give complementary character, and in children's education, majority and not subsidiary, to the private, which would become concerted. We want to highlight the general problem, in our country, of the double network. That, in fact, is not a double network; it is a very diverse network of public centers, private, concerted, first class publics, second-class publics, third-party publics, etc., which is at the basis of school segregation, and also in the case of children's education. For us, children's education has a central, absolutely central importance in favour of equality and equal opportunities for children and families. And that's only a matter of a universal, public, free and unique network, to which all families and children from zero to three years have access. This generates the need and the importance of deconcertisation and positive discrimination in favour of the public sector, on the way, as I say, of this single, public, universal and free network, as the only effective model for equality, including children's education from zero to three years. This, in our home, is currently a network with a hard underfunding and a hard lack of public provision, carried, only, of the exception of some municipalities. They are, therefore, an opportunity to correct these deficiencies, the current political moment and the greater willingness – let us hope – of foundations, also for those who will come from Europe, so as to increase the educational assumption, so as to have an expanded educational assumption. This scene of difficult need, lack of public provision and greater willingness – let us hope – of public foundations, is, as I said, an opportunity to correct these deficiencies and create a powerful network of public provision in collaboration with the assemblies, when it falls, so as to guarantee the necessary places and the absolvement of the educational objectives and fairness of this educational stage in all the territories. Therefore, the path is not the increase of financing to the private sector, nor its concertation, but its integration into the public sector. We are not talking about closing schools; we are talking about integrating them into the public network, according to criteria that can be approved by our public system, and, at times, and as a matter of absolute priority, we are strongly increasing the provision of public places, when it falls, obviously, in collaboration with the assemblies. We consider this to be an emergence. At the same time, they will keep a segregating system, double or triple, in a precarious and unstable situation both for what it does to the educational service as under the conditions of its workers, under the logic of the private enterprise, in any case, majority in this sector, with great territorial inequalities and lack of places and production of inequalities. Therefore, we will vote that not all the reason we have just explained to them is that we do not vote for the whole reason. Obviously, we would vote yes at point 5, because we agree with the urgency and priority of financing the joint ventures to which they owe this money – in fact, we are already late. And we will abstain from point 7.a, because, obviously, we agree with the planning, it is consistent with what we have just explained; territorial planning, coordinated planning with the joint assemblies and coordination of the educational community, but we do not agree with a planning based on the logic of an administrative-patronal concertation and that clears the priority of the public provision. I, please, reflect on your alliances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.49.0	Thank you. Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Pomão, Mr.Jordi Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.50.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that, certainly, when we listened to the honourable Member's question, we quickly saw that we did not share either the diagnosis or the proposal of the model of everything that is happening with regard to the child education of our country. We're defending a model that's not just a waiter. For us, education from zero to three years is a right of citizenship and must be provided, guaranteed and managed by the public authorities, in accordance with the principles of educational inclusion and with respect to ideological pluralism. Access must be fully guaranteed, on conditions of fairness, quality and free of charge. And we believe that proactive measures are called for to do so fully. All in all, we think that the priority is to empower and strengthen the public educational network as a vertebrator of the entire educational offer, with adequate and sufficient public places at all levels that fight school segregation and guarantee stable public funding. Our educational model is based on advancing, therefore, this public network and progressively eliminating concerts in private centers, starting with all those that secrete by sex, cultural and economic origin. We think, therefore, that we must work to guarantee the place of these public centres for all the people I seek, and that we must also do so with territorial fairness; therefore, regardless of the region, the municipality or the region of Catalonia in which these families live. In this sense, we have always defended that it is necessary to guarantee the freeness of universal teachings in all stages. And, obviously, we also bet on the universalization of the education of the little child. In fact, the initial stage of childhood education is a priority stage in the fight against inequality, and therefore is very important in this sense. We propose to articulate this public network. We propose prioritizing and strengthening public schools in the Bressol as an example and vector of the educational stage offer, expanding and consolidating an adequate and sufficient public network. Obviously, we have for a long time been defending that we should liquidate the debts with the bonds for the financing of the schools and recover the economic contribution made by the Department of Education agreed with the local world, and also dignify the working conditions of the and the professionals dedicated to the first childhood, stabilize the plants and internalize the professionals. But it is obvious that all these elements will never be able to last long if we do not have a good financing, a financing to guarantee fairness. And here I can also remember everything that the LEC says and all the reversal that at these times we are from Catalonia, right? , with a 4_per_cent – we still don't get there – of GDP as regards investment in education. It's obvious that her young lady doesn't have all of this model, but the opposite. And that's why we won't vote for most of the points, which we don't share. That's right, except for two. The first one that we share, obviously, is that which refers to municipal schools; it has been said before, a very important debt, right? , of the Generality towards the joints, with a historical underfunding. Now, we are also surprised that the People's Party claims here that it does not do to the autonomous communities where it governs, and especially to the Madrid Community. Except for the period of Mayor Carmena in the city of Madrid, the community most of the offer there is a private offer, and therefore not like here in Catalonia, that we still have a public offer, all the difficulties, majority. And the other point that we share is what it means to keep the P2, right? , at the first cycle of childhood education, for a theme, obviously, pedagogical. And, it's more, we think we should walk towards the zero-sis system, because that's what we're homologating with the rest of Europe. I just said, as I said to the principle, that, from these two points, we do not share... and, therefore, we will vote against this young man, most of these elements. Looks like there's a model here, doesn't it? , that, as before, they share the model « sociovergent with the support of Esquerra, VOX and Ciutadans. And, therefore, we also regret this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.51.0	Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms. Eva Parera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.52.0	Thank you, President. I would like to begin by saying that, at my table, to negotiate proposals for Catalans, everyone is welcome. I do not veto, I do not impose red lines, if it is a matter of negotiating and seeking, therefore, useful proposals to the citizenry. I've shown it to the board and I'll show it to you when I get here. It's not a problem for us; from independent parties to VOX and CUP. I understand that there are groups in which it is more complicated, because, for example, the UPC is very much a supporter of everything public, and I am more a supporter of public-private collaboration, and so... But I'm sure that in other areas we can come up with consensus, too; I'm always very willing. I understand that negotiating, so it's not getting everything you're asking for, not much less. I assume that part of the proposals they make may not be approved. I prefer to stay and put in value what will be approved with a broad consensus, more so. I think it's important. Simply put, of the papers, in Ciutadans..., they have not been accepted not because we do not like the content, but because we consider that it was already reflected with the thought that we have done to guarantee the economic support of the entire public and private system of children, right? And finally, the subject of P2, so we'll have to debate it. We celebrate that we want to keep the initial cycle from zero to three years unified. Expanding a line to the schools is a topic that I have not just seen, but I think we need to be open to debate it, and debate it above all with the sector, which really are the experts in the field. To reiterate thanks to all those who today give us the vote in favor of the points of the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.53.0	Well, thank you very much. So now, when all the... [[Alice Romero Llano asks to speak.]] Yes, Miss Romero...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.54.0	Thank you, President. It's to ask for a separate vote on point 6.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.55.0	Point six...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.56.0	Yeah. [[Marta Vilalta and Torres ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.57.0	Mrs. Villalta...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.58.0	Yes, President. It is to ask for separate vote, apart from point 6, that Mrs Romero has already asked for it, of point 5, also.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.59.0	Okay. [[Eulàlia Regant and Cure ask to speak.]] Mrs. Regant...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.60.0	Vote separate from point 5 and 7a.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.61.0	Okay. [[Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.]] Mr. Martín Blanco...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.62.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.63.0	Four. [[Joan Garriga Doménech asks to speak.]] Mr. Garriga?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.64.0	Yes, Madam President. To ask for the separate vote of point 7 senter.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.65.0	Okay. [[David Cid Colomer asks to speak.]] And Mr. Cid, who had asked for the word... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He's already been covered. Okay. See, we'll start the vote by voting point number four. The vote begins. Point 4 was adopted by 115 votes to 9 with 6 abstentions. We will continue to vote on point 5. The vote begins... [[Widow's remorse.]] Ah, it's that, with the measures, they're assigned the seats, and they're only enabled, for sure, the seats from which they can vote. Let's just wait a moment for Congresswoman Segovia to take her position to vote point number five. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Perfect. So start voting point number five. The result of the vote on point 5 is 169 votes in favour and 61 abstentions. [[David Cid Colomer asks to speak.]] Mr. Cid...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.66.0	We think we've been assigned to vote for the 2nd and 4th and the 47th and 49th, but now on the 2nd it hasn't worked...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.67.0	Didn't it work either?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.68.0	If we can remember which are the escons...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.69.0	Can you prove what's going on? And, in fact, by reason of transparency – because it would not alter the feeling of the vote, but... –, the deputies Martín Blanco and Anna Grau should intersperse the escons. I insist that it is not an issue that modifies the final vote, but it does have transparency effects, because the vote is assigned to each Member. [[Widow's remorse.]] One moment, they're telling us who they're assigned for the vote. [[Pause.]] But did the light turn on? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Not the vote. See if Oriol can fix it. [[Pause.]] Now they're bringing us the map of the seats they have assigned to the vote. [[Pause.]] Okay. So we proceed to the vote on point 6. The vote begins. Point 6 was not approved, with 20 votes in favour, 78 votes against and 33 abstentions. Now it's working? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, perfect. So let's move on to the vote on point 7.a. The vote begins. Point 7a was approved, with 103 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour and 20 abstentions. And then we'll take the vote on point 7.b. The vote begins. That point was also approved, with 103 votes in favour, 17 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. We will then vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The motion was adopted, with 114 votes in favour, 17 votes against and no abstentions. Thank you very much. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the strategic lines of the department competent in terms of equality]] [[302-0002/13]] Let's move on to the dissette point of the order of the day, the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the strategic lines of the department competent in matter of equality, presented to the parliamentary group of the Republican Left. It has the word, to expose it, MP Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.70.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone. Well, in this young man, what we're doing is pointing at some strategic lines. We are aware that the department is building, but there are some consensus and some mandates that we want to compromise, and we are voting on something that should not be debated, which is that the parliamentary debate is based on a principle of respect. That would not be a good thing to put it to the vote, but the parliamentary term lasts a few days and they have already shown us that we cannot count it, and that is why we are putting it to this House, so that we can vote on it. I say this because in these few days, in these few weeks, there have already been some questions of control of the government as to how to ask about women passing through prison centres, and we consider that some have been asked in some terms..., right? that even from the Bureau it was proposed, therefore, to be able to write them so that they adjusted to a few minimums of respect and that they did not stigmatize themselves, but it was done. That is why we are voting that this parliamentary debate on vulnerable collections is made of respect. Because they asked, for example, what crimes had trans women who had requested a transfer to a women's prison centre? Can you imagine anyone asking about the fessin with any other collection? I don't think so. And, therefore, I obey the instruction of 2019 prison centers, that here in Catalonia trans people... I want to clarify that not only trans women; that the questions of the PSC focused a lot on trans women, but this instruction is for all trans people. They can do this prison change precisely because between and outside the prison the trans people have rights, and that's what the 2019 instruction says. And precisely because we consider human rights rights, one of the mandates of the last legislature with the equal treatment and non-discrimination law, is that this would be the legislature of the Catalan Trans Law. I would like to add that this Catalan trans law – that we have autonomous powers – will not be enough to protect all the rights of trans people, and that is why we also want a Catalan republic, to have all the powers. Why am I saying that? Because the competitions of the civil registry are not close to Catalonia, and therefore we can legislate on many issues, but not on the change of name and sex registered in the identification. And, therefore, this is one of the reasons for which people also receive rape. And, as I say, we wanted to convey some of the consensus of the last legislature: one was the law trans and another was to make some legislative changes because the country empowered did not always remain above the superior good of the infant. And I don't think I can explain much this week, because it's been seen that a bully can never be a good father. And, therefore, in cases of male violence, there is legal proceedings open or not, the country's authority cannot remain above the superior good of the infant. And, therefore, as we committed ourselves to the law against male violence in the past legislature, we bring it to debate in this so that we can do, therefore, that we do not care for the consent of the aggressor father even though there is no open procedure in cases of male violence, because the infants have right to reparation even though their aggressor father does not want it. And in this young man, talking about vulnerable collections, structural rapes, talking about the trans law, talking about male violence, talking about anti-racism, Ciutadans decides that in these vulnerable collections there must be this collection, that everyone knows, that they are the Spanish-speaking people. They already made an inquiry this morning to Councilwoman Geis to talk about selectivity, and there was the space to talk about it. But not here, in this young man; not here, that we're talking about rapes, feminicides, that we're talking about racial identities, that we're talking about the LGTBI collection... Castilian speakers are not a vulnerable collection. This is not the place to talk about these issues. I'd be ashamed of myself. And, therefore, this statement, of course, will not be accepted, just as it will not be accepted by the PSC, because we consider this to be a motion to protect the rights of the people. And, therefore, the vulnerable collectivities of those we speak of in this young man cannot speak of hispanophobia. Please, a minimum of decency and a minimum of respect for the structural rapes suffered by Catalan society. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.71.0	Next, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the Member of Parliament, Ms Gemma Lienas, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.72.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. We were surprised by this Republican Left movement that deals with a subject that is very important and very punishing, but it does so in an ambiguous and inconcrete way. And I say we're surprised, but I could go a lot further, if we take into account the situation we're living for what he's doing to male violence. I make them a rest of the last women murdered on 2021: 26 April, Pilar, fifty years old, the Bisbal del Penedès, cremated alive for her husband; 17 May, Betty, fifty-two years old, Creixell, murdered with two pieces per pair; 18 May, Lucia, forty-two years old, Corbera de Llobregat, murdered with a white weapon per pair; 2 June, Al·la, forty-eight years old, Porcheres, murdered with a white weapon per pair. If we focus on sexual rape, a rape that we don't have precise statistics because it's a very tight rape, the picture is also very worrying. We went to the Hospital Clinic to visit the sexual rape unit. They told us that they had gone from being a king to visiting a victim of this kind of violence every day during the months of the pandemic to attending each day; set in a hospital in Catalonia. They explained to us that the 100_per_cent of the aggressors are men, and that the main risk factor for sexual rape is being a woman. That is why we believe that, when they ask for institutional respect for the debate, they should emphasize sex. And it's that this is the main cause for women's rape, that is, half the population. We would also have liked it if, in order to put an end to this terrible situation that we are patenting, we were guaranteed an increase in the presumption of the Catalan Institute of Donations. Mirin, in 2006 the Català de les Dones Institute was in the hands of the tripartite and had a supposition of 15_millions. By 2015, almost two years later, the assumption had fallen to 7.5_million, and 2020 had only increased to 10.5_million. As you can see, the assumption has considerably diminished in relation to 2006, but rapes against women have increased exponentially and the municipalities have had to assume this expenditure that the Government did not cover. And in a different way, we know, the government leaves us with no presuppositions. For what it does at point 1, my group understands that the rebuff which it expresses with so much force "against all rapes means against all, also against the unacceptable campaigns destined to tarnish for feminist women. We shall therefore vote in favour. We will abstain in point 2 for the fact that we do not think that Parliament is able to interfere in the life of the Congress. For what it does at point 3, we will vote in favour, because, indeed, this is what we want, which is putting instruments in place to fight against any manifestation of rape or discrimination. For what it does at point 3.b, the inconcretion with which it is written leads to some misconceptions, or can carry it there. We have read carefully the 2018 resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and we have not seen any specific requirements for transgender people who make countries that have little respectable legislation, which is not our case. On the other hand, it has also caused us to be strange that it refers to this resolution, which concretely says, to the second line, that "gender expressions include dress, talk and gesture. He's weirded us out, because it means perpetuating gender stereotypes. Listen, every one of you wears, speaks and is mogi as you like, but without having to box it up. This is contrary to the experience of co-education we have in our centres. So go ahead before we are in favour of equality and improving the living conditions of the most discriminated groups, but we would also like to be able to determine in what terms it stands. Therefore, we shall abstain. And, for what it does at point 3.c, we seem very necessary to ensure the attention of the sons and daughters of victims of male violence, but again we find it ambiguous. We have made an effort to eliminate it by stating that it was not necessary for legal proceedings to be opened. We understand that they respond to a concern that we share with the proposed group and with professionals who deal with women victims of rape. We know that if women who are victims of rape are obliged to report many times, they are a fan of violence, but we also know that if there is no open court procedure there may be legal insecureness. Therefore, we wanted not to lose the opportunity to discuss and discuss other scenes. We will abstain, therefore, because they have not admitted to us the emena. Well, we'd appreciate it if, from now on, I could really use all the instruments we have against all the rapes. The ladies will appreciate it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.73.0	Next, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament Anna Grau has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.74.0	Thank you, Madam President. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament... Well, from the Citizens' Group we can't agree more with the principles that inspire a young man like this on paper, who, when taken at first sight, is to make a mess of himself. Who could not want to compromise an area of debate and confrontation of ideas based on the free discussion, institutional and personal respect? Who wouldn't want everyone in this room to see "a respectful, scrupulous, exemplary and dignified attitude in parliamentary debates, without discriminating by reason of gender, sexual orientation, creeds, ideology, origin, language, etc.? Unfortunately, well, this whole pot of good intentions about the paper was immediately seen, just when the proposer took over the rostrum, which has nothing to do with reality. If you don't want to, don't go to the age, but... I mean, I don't know who you think it is, the Republican Left Group, to decide that there are first or second discriminations. This noble Parliament has seen them of all colors, precisely because of conviction, some groups, that they have every right to impose themselves on those who do not think, are or feel like them. Certainly, I would like to say that, today, Councilwoman Geis has said here a lie like a page house; she has said that the political party Ciutadans was born in 2006 with the will to go against the Catalan language. Beyond reality; it was in defense of many Catalans and Catalans like me, that we do feel a vulnerable collection, because we regard our language, our culture and our freedom... to always speak as we please. That said, I don't know whether to make me laugh or cry, seeing the signature of the Junts per Catalunya Group in an amendment to paragraph 1 of this motion, when she is a distinguished representative of that group – no more or less than the president of this Parliament, Mrs Laura Borràs – the first to distribute intolerance cakes to the right and the wrong, removing words and cutting microphones to anyone who dares to express here opinions that disgust her or ## are palmarial evidence that there are members of the Government accused of embezzlement and corruption, activities that I don't know about in her people, but in mine, of course, they associate more with being a thief than with being a very honorable person... [[some applause]] That's what he said for someone who has seen with pain and with no small disappointment the entire family... of the so admired Jordi Pujol, all on the way to the bench. In short: I don't know if you have any sense of consistency, you should strip your clothes for the purpose of establishing or discriminating for the sake of generating and ignoring in a flagrant way discrimination or settlement in the claus of supremacism, of believing that there are first and second catalans, good Catalans and ailing Catalans, botiflers, or in the claus directly – yes, Mrs. Diaz – of hispanofobia. My company here, Nacho Martín Blanco, remembered here ineffable statements from the ara Vice President of the Government, Mr. Puigneró, comparing – here we go – an intellectual who defends federalism with an alcoholic husband who sticks the dona. That generated a very feminist, juicy debate with a great awareness of gender, which all of you can recover from the session diary. For my part, just add that, on the way out in the past, Mr. Puignero came to find us and ask us what we did by grabbing ourselves - with smoking paper for things like that. Jug it yourself, I pray you with a sharp impartiality. With separatists like that, who needs extreme right? But, well, certainly the central theme of the motion that we are now debating and voting here does not intend to enter into the background of the question, total tolerance, as it has remained very pale, but to seize, I do not know whether with smoking paper or without, only a trosset, a part of that tolerance, concretely that which is to people who suffer some kind of masculist violence, LGBTIphobic, racist, xenophobic, etc. In this, you know, they'll always find us, as it couldn't be otherwise. In Ciutadans we are liberals; do you remember? Liberals always and at all times, day and night, in all matters, without exception or smoking paper. We'd appreciate it if you were just as liberal as everybody else. But, come on, we're resigned to be patient until the big day comes. One important thing is that we would like to be clear: we see that the motion deems the processing of a law essential for the effective equality of people trans to the Congress of Deputies. Forward! We're there! But if it's possible with coherence and with sense and touching from a few to the ground. Ciutadans is not for the right, but neither for the left; he does not want a feminism of ensign nun, but also a feminism of gulag like that preached by the current Ministry of Equality of the Government of Spain. We are liberal feminists without complex; we have our own initiative in favour of the rights of LGBTI people, of all people who need a commitment to be freer, not less, with no doctrinal excuse or totality. A lot of mercy. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.75.0	Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the deputy and secretary, Mrs Aurora Madaula, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.76.0	Well, good morning. Thank you very much, President. Members, people who follow us through the audiovisual media of Parliament..., well, I will refer briefly to the anti-feixist pact that we have made in this chamber. And I'm saying that because I won't answer the groups that we consider to be extreme right and prophesied, regardless of their provocations. I take advantage of this young lady, even though she is not the councillor, to congratulate her, because she leads, she comes to lead a councillor of this Government of the Government of Catalonia, with all this danger that implies, as we see. And also thank him, because he did so in defence of the democratic principles, when he defended the referendum, in forming part of the electoral union of October 1st, as did people who worked for the Government of Catalonia and who this very week are being persecuted for the Spanish repressive state with many millions, shameful embargoes and judicial citations. From here all my thanks and support to all the people persecuted and retaliated for the Spanish State in this general cause against independence, and today especially to Marcel Vivet, to whom we give total support against a disproportionate and shameful feeling. And now, I come fully into the subject that we are dealing with in this motion to thank the Government of the Generality as well that it encapsulates this council of feminisms and equalitys, which, with the rise of the extreme right and the advancement of neo-feixist policies, which obviously go with a consequence of backward sexual and reproductive rights and minority rights, is more necessary today than ever before. The entrance of the extreme right..., explicit – explicit – because I think we already had it, the extreme right. But the entrance of the extreme right into the Parliament of Catalonia is a fact, and we cannot ignore it. And it is apparent, for example, from the refusal of some Members to sign the compromise against discrimination and settlement – from some Members to sign the compromise against discrimination and settlement. And that's why we came in from Juntes for Catalonia, we thought that we would have entered this item, that we thank Esquerra for having accepted it; a task to promote a reform of the Parliament, a reform of the Rules of Parliament that strengthens this compromise, with sanctions in case of non-signature. From this chamber, which is the legislature, we need to be able to modify, change regulations, update regulations to the new needs of the citizenry so that it guarantees human rights and, in this case, the rights of women and minorities. Because, effectively, the extreme right advances, the fascism advances without stumbling at the global level; not only at the catal level, but at the global level. For example, last Tuesday I took part in the presentation of the report The Tip of the Iceberg, made for the European Parliamentary Forum for Sexual and Reproductive Rights, on the alert of financing, through entities and foundations– then, if they want, the translation into Catalan– extremists, anti-gender policies, against the assistance to rights such as avortation or against the rights to the LGBTI community. Foundations which, through their funding network, support political initiatives such as those which unfortunately we have today in this Parliament, which generate hate speech, deny male violence and exalt the traditional family – remember: « the father of the family, « first the ones of the house, « the intrafamily violence, « the domestic violence», denying the rights to all families. That is why we believe that it is important for the government to work from the departments, with interdepartmental and territorial work, to challenge these hate speech. Unfortunately, not all governments of the world defend human rights, and today... yesterday, we had knowledge of a homophobic and LGTBibic law of the Government of Hungary that embarrasses us, once more, for the permissiveness of the European Union before these policies. A law that forbids talking about trans and homosexuality in schools and that equates them to pedophiles, similar to this parental pin that some defend in some autonomous communities. It is for all these bad news and practical things that we would also demand the full implementation of the Law 17/2020, of the revision of the forms of masculinist rapes, and the implementation of the Law 19/2020, of equal treatment and non-discrimination, especially for what it does to trans-inclusive policies and which is fraught with trans-fobic policies, especially those that are defended at the Congress of Deputies in Madrid. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.77.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, MP Monica Lora.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.78.0	Well, thank you. Well, before all, out of the bo, right? The one who writes to the motions does not try to apply it. And starting with Esquerra Republicana, who begins this motion assumes that Parliament must be a space where everyone must have an exemplary attitude in parliamentary debates. Here we find ourselves with the first incoherence. And it is that the Member who today defends this young man has made a debut in an inquiry in the past Ple clearly said that he had to fight VOX. Who do we learn to give you, from Esquerra Republicana? And how do they look so hard and how do they defend non-discrimination by ideology with so much hypocrisy? Because the memory that VOX suffers, day by day, an anti-democratic cord in this Parliament, promoted by groups like yours. [[Some applause.]] And I remind you here of Article 14 of the Spanish Constitution, that Spaniards are equal before the law, without the possibility of discrimination by reason of birth, race, sex, religion, opinion or any other personal or social condition or circumstance. And look, do you know what comes out of this motion? They don't have the courage to talk about the real problems that affect most Catalans. And if not, consult the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinió, who for that work for you, where recently came out a monograph on the values of Catalans. And do you know the main priority of Catalans? Family. Because more than 90_per_cent of Catalans see the family as the top priority. And it is that this motion is only a way of continuing to introduce gender ideology into soup. Because look if it's surreal that even in public family policies, instead of including the family perspective, which would be logical, you include the gender perspective. And so in VOX we are not tired of saying that we are the only voice in this Parliament – the only one – which is clearly positioned against the falsehoods and injustices of gender laws and seeks to solve the real problems of Catalans. [[Some applause.]] They also tell us, in the motion, about the non-stigmatization of LGBTI and trans collectives. Do those who spend the day collecting people, starting with women, really tell us this? And it is that this is a tactic, because for you it is a tool to create more divisions to draw political revenue at the expense of collectiveizing people and to gain even more weight from the network of political chiringuitos that they have at their mercy. Because, look, they have created over a hundred LGTBI care services throughout Catalonia, chiringuitos exist and because there are: observatories of discrimination, memory center and documentation of discrimination, commission for equal treatment. Because in things like this, gentlemen, some EUR 20 million has been budgeted for 2020. On the other hand, we find that the Secretary of Social Affairs and Families has only allocated a budget of EUR 9 million to families in 2020, less than the Institute of Women, than the Institute of the Dona, which has allocated EUR 10 million. And since they dare to talk about the children of women who are victims of violence, we make it clear to them: we want to protect women and anyone with the real and forceful application of the law and the establishment of life imprisonment. We also want all members of the family unit to be protected. Because yes, gentlemen, there is domestic violence, no matter how much you try to hide it and try to deny it. As we saw here recently, they refused to make a_minute of silence for the dead girl in Sant Joan Despí. And taking advantage that the Speaker of Parliament yesterday condemned this murder at the hands of her mother, we hope that she will support VOX's proposal to modify the duel protocol, so that in this Parliament the minutes of silence for all victims, be they men, women or children, and regardless of whether their aggressor is man or woman. [[Some applause.]] And, ultimately, you, who create problems where there are none and who try to divide our society, do not try to give equal lessons to those we treat the whole world equally. We will therefore vote negatively on this proposal to continue to collect and divide Catalan society. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.79.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, has the words of Congresswoman Basha Change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.80.0	Thank you, President. Well, last session we had the intervention of the Councillor of Igualtat, with which we felt an exposition about the intentions of the councillor and the areas of work that they want to address. And we heard that the councillor's action would be marked by the wide-ranging look that requires the treatment of social equality that calls this councillor's. Having an Igualta Council is a big step in this path towards building a diverse and cohesive multicultural Catalan society. And as long as it is! But it would be even more so if the intentions of sneaking into white feminism were not so blatantly evident on the part of the Republican Left. It did not seem to us that this was the councilwoman's intention; therefore, perhaps they should respect this divergent approach. In this young man we value today, you do not see for the most part this wide-ranging look or talk about anti-racism, as Mrs Jenn Díaz said before, more than typical clixes that reflect what we assumed and feared: that when you say "equality" you are speaking of gender equality. The drafting of the motion denotes not only little intention to deepen the structural questions of rape and discrimination, but also the slightest awareness that it is so obvious, and, if not, calling on Congress with the processing of an effective law of equality for trans people, which, if not, is curious, coming from an independent party with a democratic confrontation agreement with the State precisely because our rights do not belong to the Constitution. Let's remember that we're talking about strategic lines, key points, focus areas, that is, where to invest resources. This concrete motion, including in terms of two very uncertain measures, one, respects the name change of trans people, and the other, to guarantee the rights of the children of women victims of gender-based violence, with whom we cannot agree more. However, racism, xenophobia, LGBTIphobia, capacitism, serophobia, education and other forms of structural violence and serious social discrimination, which so many sees condition and so many sees take place, in a generic and dispersal point, without the realization of measures or instruments or terms, with an intersecting style pack that could well be copied from any manifest found on the internet with the key words intersecting feminism and other inventions of hegemonic feminism in order not to make the necessary self-criticism to get out of the center and stop presenting itself as the melic of structural operations. The cross-sectoral approach is not the fashion complement to look good, it is a tool of analysis, study, work; it must be mentioned less and applied more. The councillor of Igualtat cannot keep the whiteness in the center and remains it as accessories. It may place the margins at the centre, as the adviser seemed to indicate in her intervention, because this is where the focus is to ensure equality, cultural equality, ethnic equality regardless of origin or administrative situation, gender and gender equality, equality in the profession of faith, equality regardless of age, with particular emphasis on the protection of childhood and old age, equality regardless of state of health, in the broadest sense of the word; ultimately, the protection of all those lives that are penalized, repressed and all socially and institutionally persecuted to guarantee the same opportunities of access to social, civil and political rights of any person, regardless of their nationality or nationality. This diversity should be placed at the centre, starting with the first look at the approaches that will allow the focus to compensate for structural inequalities and not just mark the cross-sectional box in front of the gallery, because studies, indicators, data, analysis of the reality and distribution of resources as a function of this analyzed reality are scheduled. For example, setting up a comprehensive plan against racism, anti-gitistanism or Islamophobia, fighting against school segregation, the dignity of agricultural work, of home and of cures, etc. This writing of this motion indicates that it is not even intended to make this work effective in a good time. We will vote in favour, because it is a lot of minimums, and the biax that spreads out shows us that, once again, it is through the whiteness of one's looks at the other colors.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.81.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the words of Congresswoman Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.82.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... to be the first young man we talk about in terms of equality and feminism, god-in-law, the debate, if he's giving of himself. In fact, what we've been thinking about with this young man is that he seems to be lying that he still has these heights, so we must reaffirm the commitment of the Parliament of Catalonia to defend and work for equality from a mark of respect for everyone, for all ideologies, for all diversity and respect for human rights. We understand that yes, that it is really sad that we still have to do it, but that it is necessary to do it. And, in fact, we have done precisely – it has already been done; other groups also – reference to one of the first resolutions of this legislature, the 4/XIII, which is the result, I recall, of the joint work of four parliamentary groups, from the agreement signed by five forces, also includes the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, for the mechanisms that this Parliament has to equip itself with and the different groups to deal with the presence of members of the ultra-rights for the first time in the Parliament of Catalonia ; Members, and so on, accused of hate crimes, that is something that you have much to see with the motion and with the motion for a resolution, which probably is why it bothers them as much as we talk about these issues. I think it is a reflection that we must all do: how we react to the presence of the ultra-right in Parliament. But surely we need to reflect much deeper, and that is why the ultrathreat has come; why people vote for parties that are against human rights, that do not defend human rights and that attack people in their most basic human rights; that brings their voters to vote for those parties, and often, quite often, also in vulnerable areas, in areas with low income levels. And this is the urgent reflection that we need to do. The answer is not simple, but the answer is urgent. When we say that the ultrathreat is also fought from the street, what we are saying is that it is fought with policies, with policies of inclusion and social cohesion, with policies of transformation, with policies of reversal, with policies of equality, of this generation of equality, with policies that fight for precariousness, without having a decent life, with the need to fight for the scarce resources that are available to people in a situation of least vulnerability; this must also be the answer we say. In front of hate speech, inclusive and cohesive policies, equality policies; in front of discriminatory discourses, resources and public investment in transformation policies. It is one of the themes of this motion for a resolution. And there is another issue, which is the issue of the recognition of the rights of trans people, which is one of the great themes of the Catalan and state political agenda of the past. In fact, we have already lived in the first person with the modification of the law of male rapes in the last legislature, where an important effort was made to generate the sufficient consensus and the consensus necessary for the depathology of people within the hour to access the resources for women victims of male rape. Therefore, the only one we have done is in line with what has already been done at European level, at international level, but also, for example, in the Canaries Parliament, which has recently been approved. And that, curiously, a law that was approved in its large majority for unanimity and that the People's Party gave support to it and that, moreover, made an additional transitory slogan giving recognition to all people and trans women, intersex and non-binary people, because this is the slogan registered for the People's Party in the past legislature, now this same People's Party has appealed to the Constitutional against this law. So, again, what they don't win the ballot boxes do through the courts. We'll defend this law. We would ask Parliament to defend this law before the attacks of the People's Party and before the interference of the People's Party in legislation arising from the sovereignty of this Parliament. But we also ask that at the level of the State we advance in this law that must recognize the rights of trans people, but that we move forward in order to resist polarization, in order to confront, to stop using the rights of trans people from one band and another as a driver of interchantment and political play, and that we actually work to generate the necessary consensus so that we can finish this legislature have approved this law that recognizes the rights of trans people. And she did want to leave it at the end, because she was a young lady from the first appearance of the councillor, who couldn't accompany us today – she already explained it to us – but that we would have her in appearance at the committee in a way..., they say that the creation of this councillor is really a great success, it is a triumph. We also bring to the program the need for the creation of this consultancy, because we believe that giving the relevancy and transversality required by policies with an impact of genera requires a specific consultancy; but it has many challenges ahead, and the first is not a floral consultancy. That is to say, let us hope that there is the real political will to equip it with human and economic resources and with the ability to interact with the rest of the department, the ability to keep rectory in the policies of equality that it needs to be able to deploy everything that it has before, because we come from a lot down, we come very late; not only in assumptions, but also in the unfolding of the laws that this Parliament has endowed itself with, such as the law against LGBTIphobia or the same law against masclistic rapes. So, please, a truth counselor and not a flower counselor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.83.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.84.0	Yes, thank you, President. In a very short way. Firstly, in order to advance that we will only vote in favour of point 3a, which we consider to be a political declaration against discrimination which, although I include some concepts that we cannot share, makes reference to avoiding any kind of discrimination, so we can support it. But the rest of us can't give it support for various reasons that I'm going to explain now. In point 1, before the debate on the reform of the Rules, we could still have voted in favour, but what we understand is that the reform of the Rules that you are proposing would be an authentic bite, but it really bites. Because you say very often that in this Parliament it is not possible to speak of everything, that it is not possible to speak of independence, of monarchy... In fact, we carry almost a decade that is not spoken of anything else. No, I can talk about everything. What is not possible is to vote on illegal resolutions, which is another very different issue; but to talk, it can talk about everything. And you, who have criticized this supposed biting imagination for the themes about independence and monarchy – which is not about anything else–, want to introduce a biting for some very concrete themes. And I have to say one thing: this is a parliament. If you have a discrepancy with any political group and with any ideology, then what you have to do is, with political arguments, debate, which is how things are done, and not silence what you think is wrong; among other things, because implicitly what you are demonstrating is a lack of confidence in yourself very worrying, and above all lack of political and dialectic resources to deal with any ideology that you are discriminating about. I disagree with you and I don't have any type of problem and I don't want any type of bite. And we've been debating, over the past few years, everything, absolutely everything. With regard to points 2 and 3, minus the 3rd, as I had done in the beginning of my intervention, we cannot support it because it is pointed out that the good things that are not the competence of this Parliament, or they do not have a broad consensus or so much alone in the field of feminist movement, or they are talking in a frivolous way about issues that require a much deeper and more subtle debate, because we are talking about the rights of small children and very complex situations that you, in other words, want to parade here without any kind of analysis and that, I insist, require a much deeper debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.85.0	Thank you very much. So now, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms. Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.86.0	Thank you, President. Mrs. Lienas says they'll abstain at the tip of the law because we can't get involved in Congress. No, they will abstain because they are blocking the trans-state law to the Congress of the Council of Ministers and also passing through the parliamentary debate, which is not that they do not want to talk about concrete issues of the law anymore, but that they did not allow the processing of this law alone. Therefore, the problem here is not that we cannot urge our parliamentary groups to Congress to make a political position, because obviously we want all the skills to be able to make a law trans that addresses all the issues affecting the trans collection, but it is obvious that we do not have all the skills. And, meanwhile, we need to be able to talk – that we have done thousands and thousands of times in this chamber, despite the fact that we do not have the skills – for example, about the state or foreign law. We cannot avoid these debates just because we are an independent party. We'd love to have all the competitions. I wanted to say another question; to the company of the CUP. If you consider that this young man makes a proposal for white feminism, we have two options: one is the papers, which they have not presented, and another is that on the investment agreement and the parliamentary agreement there is the possibility of making groups of work; we do not have them, of feminisms. I invite you to make one, if you really care that this intersectionality... that's not much of a fashion issue for us. I invite you – if you really think you miss this advice that you have just started walking – to do this group of work. Because it's beyond reality. As far as the procedure is concerned, we're very grateful, aren't we? , that the PSC only speaks of legal insecurity. What we need is a case law that protects fundamental ideas. I, therefore, yes, without reports..., without open court proceedings, with professional reports – and as long as yes! – to protect children from victims of male violence. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.87.0	We would then proceed to the vote, with the request made by the Joint Group for a separate vote on item 3.a. Any more petitions? [[Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.]] Mr. Martín Blanco?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.88.0	Yes, President. We would ask for a separate vote from all the points of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.89.0	Of all the points of the young man.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.90.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.91.0	All right, then. As you ask, the Ciutadans Group, to make the separate vote, let us begin the votes. Vote... [[Marta Vilalta and Torres ask to speak.]] Yes, you did, Mrs. Vilalta. [[Pause.]] Ah, that there are still no deputies. We've called the vote. [[Pause.]] Thank you. We shall therefore begin with the vote on the first point. The vote begins. The first point was approved with 108 votes in favour, 12 against and 8 abstentions. Let's start the second-point vote. The vote begins. The second point was approved with 81 votes in favour, 11 against and 35 abstentions. We're voting point three. The vote begins. Paragraph 3a was adopted by 117 votes to 11 with no abstentions. And finally, we're going to do the two headings of point three. Therefore, we are voting now on points 3.b and 3.c– 3.b and 3.c. Sorry, sorry: I'll be back... a moment. Let's start voting again on points 3.b and 3.c. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah? [[Widow's remorse.]] He didn't go? [[Pause.]] As long as this has been put to rest, I shall return to the vote. Let's start voting again on these two quarters, 3.b and 3.c. The vote begins. These parties were approved with 76 votes in favour, 11 against and 41 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation]] [[302-00001/13.]] Let's move on to the seven-point order of the day, the Movement following the Government's inquiry into the situation of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation. Yes, Mr. Martín Blanco, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.92.0	Excuse me, President. In accordance with Rule 35.1, it was to request an extraordinary spokesman's meeting to see a proposal for an institutional declaration by Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.93.0	And count on some other group support?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.94.0	Count, I think so, with the support of both the Popular Party, both the Mixed Group, and VOX.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.95.0	They'll have to corroborate...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.96.0	Perfect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.97.0	...the representatives of... [[Joan Garriga Doménech asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Garriga?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.98.0	Yes, I gather the petition of the Nacho Martín Blanco, of the Group of Ciutadans, for an extraordinary meeting of spokespersons to be able to talk about the institutional declaration.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.99.0	Mrs. Roldán?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.100.0	Yes, Madam President, we also support this petition.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.101.0	Okay. Then, when we finish the midday session, now when we pause, we will hold this extraordinary Spokesman's Meeting which three groups of the chamber have asked for. We are now proceeding to the Government's inquiry into the situation of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.102.0	Thank you, President; thank you, honourable Members. Well, actually, it's not an inquiry, it's a motion for an inquiry that I presented last week... well, at the last plenary session, to complain about every once more blatant lack of neutrality on Catalan television and public radio. Moreover, the bone spring of my intervention raised the working hypothesis, when not convinced, that the corporation has become a fish market where they contain the most sectarian and the least plural they eat the most up. It's program and it's always preaching the same, always thinking about the same, always weighing down the results account of the same, until I told them that political propaganda is no longer an object in itself. If that were the case, it would be the most ruinous trade in the century. Who can be so—already forgive me—an animal that spends 240_millions of money a year, plus all the spills it takes, to forever grind the same button, to convince the already convinced, to ventilate even more the hyperventilates, while all the rest has already disconnected for a while? No, ladies and gentlemen, the current layout of the body is only understood if it is seen in terms of massive misappropriation of public money to the service of an ideological oligarchy, yes, but above all industrial, a ghetto of fellow entrepreneurs vampring public money from the private sector through the bloodiest favouritism. It violates the most elementary principles of public interest and free competition and transparency is a heavy joke. Look what I've got here. [[The speaker shows a full camera.]] It is the cover of a huge totxo of the presumed Regulatory Standard for the selection and contracting of audiovisual content for the media of the corporation. This is in case a journalist asks for information about why he is massively engaged with Mediapro, with a management and a financial situation, or Absolute Minority, who comes out at 3 million euros per season only to make Poland, who already explained to us Mrs. Núria Llorach that if he has dedicated the contingencies to the covid, and that only for the special gala of the fifteen years they have started about fifty_ thousand euros of tip. This without counting the "It's happening, various documentaries, etc. I'm not surprised they're running out of time to renovate. I know from experience, because I've worked with him, that rowing rooms with Mr. Vincent Sanchis can't..., it can be very hard– it can be very hard. I suppose that's why at the last delivery of Poland they reserved the secret weapon of making appear in person the President of Parliament, Mrs Laura Borràs; the one of flesh and bones, eh? Not the parody. With camels like that, who would like them to say they don't renew? They've got to think. We could expand with a thousand and a delicious anecdotes like these, but it's not my intention to lose or make them lose the thread of this young man, which is the background race that we have decided to undertake in this legislature for the industrial sanitation and financing of the corporation, as the only way to break Catalan visual apartheid. Now, the body is worth more for which it contracts than for which it issues, for its role as a distributor of audiovisual producers pampered by the regime. All right. Transparency requirements that are not taken into account, contract of producers and... do you know what an independent producer is? It meets the conditions of independent producer one that does not have a link with the media corporation nor past, present and future occupational or social dependence. Finally, we have accepted some ideas, we have not had to reject many. But let's go, as we don't have time to empty the pop, let me simply point out the objective: we ask for an act of contrition and decency; the renewed compromise with plurality and, if it doesn't happen spontaneously, an external audit that details the impact of all the contracts that are questionable, doubtful or directly fraudulent; that I return to the assumption of the Generality until the last cent of the covid fund dedicated to paying Poland or Crackóvies or whatever; that they appear, before the commission of control of the corporation in a specific session on the other hand, those responsible for having contracted for a million a certain producer already on the ground, sea and air that had exerted pressure and influence on members of the Government of the Generality. All this, which we have always covered, which has always been of justice, but always remains with a toast to the sun, requires two conditions without which to become reality: to block all possibility of rotating doors; that all direction of the "body" needs a term of care to go to work to a company that has contracted from its core – two years as at least – and that the governing council of the "body" is renewed through a public and transparent competition, giving entry to professionals independent of accredited competence and trajectory, assessed both for the Council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia and for the control committee of the corporation. There's nothing to do about it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.103.0	Then there is the word, to defend the papers presented, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Beatriz Silva.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.104.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. TV3 was born in 1983 with the aim of becoming the reference medium of all the citizens of Catalonia, both that which had Catalan as the first language and that which needed to improve its language skills. It had to be a television in which everyone was reflected, which helped to create community around the language, and to report professionally and rigorously, respecting political and cultural plurality, taking into account the diversity and wealth that make up Catalan society. Our public television is currently far from this goal. The CEO's barometers of recent years reflect that the vast majority of people who have TV3 as their reference channel are those who vote for independence formations. Those who vote for formations such as the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, which aspire to a federal organization in Spain, or those who are more in favour of the current autonomous model, have stopped seeing it. In 2005, 61.4_per_cent of the PSC voters, 34.7_per_cent of the PP voters, and 74.4 of the Catalonian Initiative voters had TV3 as their reference channel. Today only 13,5_per_cent of the people who vote for these formations or their heirs. At the same time, it is the television between 80 and 95_per_cent of the voters of Junts, Esquerra and the CUP. When we talk about this issue in the control committee we always find denial by reply. The director of TV3 argues, for example, with regard to the training I represent – the PSC – that the people who voted for it in 2005 continue to see it, but who now vote for independence formations, assuming that TV3 is a television directed only to this part of the population. From our parliamentary group we believe that this is a big mistake. We believe that TV3 has to be the reference chain of all Catalans and Catalans, they vote for what they vote for. We want a public television that represents all citizens without exception, that fulfills its mission to inform in respect for political pluralism, but also taking into account the diversity that integrates Catalan society. We want a public television where not only all citizens are reflected, but it is positively reflected, because we are convinced that the objective of a public television must be to strengthen democratic values such as coexistence. We believe that it is not acceptable for our public television to have assumed the mental framework of a part of the population, forgetting the entire citizenry that finances it with its taxes. We believe that it is not acceptable that in the midst of a pandemic and in the face of an unprecedented economic and social crisis, TV3's management prioritizes buying from Mediapro eight documentaries on the trial process and paying for them almost half a million euros. Things like this cause enormous damage to the image of our public television. A few months ago, all of us were able to hear how a Mediapro manager negotiated the sale of these documentaries by jumping through all the regular channels. And, in spite of this noisy show, the director of TV3 bought them and broadcast them. Therefore, from the Socialists i Units per Avançar Group we believe that it is necessary to re-found TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio in order for them to carry out their public service mission again and to be at the service of all Catalans and Catalans, vote for what they vote for. We also believe that the renewal of the bodies should be done in accordance with the law, which was amended in 2019 with a great consensus. And that is why we have tabled an amendment in this respect, as well as with regard to external production. Unlike this motion, we believe that TV3 must fulfil its mission of driving the audiovisual industry in Catalan, but it must do so by distributing resources across a wide range of options and not as is the case now, which is concentrated on two or three producers who are also awarded contracts by jumping through the regular channels. External production is important and has to be done, but it has to be done with transparency. And, therefore, we believe that an external audit needs to be hired to assess how resources are used, also those that have come from the covid fund. It is not acceptable for the president-in-office of the corporation to state, as she did in the last committee addressing me, that the director of TV3 is free to spend resources on whatever he wants, to justify that without the fund he covid the program Poland and other productions, that they are far from meeting the criteria of incalculable and non-discretionary that the covid fund has, would not have had continuity. This response is not acceptable to a citizen who faces urgent needs and who would have to have his or her public television side by viewing this social emergency and making an exemplary use of public resources. We will vote in favour of some points, but not those where our amendments were not accepted. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.105.0	Then has the word, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.106.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen... a motion concerning the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans is being brought to this chamber today. And you know what our position is about this grateful stomach placement agency: you have to close the one and you have to do what you have to do as soon as possible. Let us remind you once again of something as obvious and simple as that the media dependent on the Generality have an obligation to respect the criteria of neutrality and political pluralism. And I say'simple' because anyone who believes in freedom understands that the press and the media are a public service for the transmission of information. TV3, Catalunya Ràdio and all the media of the corporation, far from being serious, reliable or rigorous, are a veritable tern of hatred and sectarianism, plagued by radicals on pay willing to trample and silence a majority of Catalans that we are tired of living under the totalitarian yoke of separatism. Where it has been seen that a public television allows to be called to combat Catalans who oppose separatism with a punch in the mouth, as Jair Domínguez did live in Catalunya Ràdio. Where it has been seen that a means of public communication makes it possible to call on citizens to point out, identify and pursue non-independence Catalans with the aim of removing them from their homes and also removing them from their jobs. That also happened in Planta Baixa, a TV3 program. Gentlemen, it is that you are sick of hatred and are atrociously afraid that Catalans will realize that separatism is synonymous with ruin and mismanagement. That's why you created a media arm that touches your palms at all times and silences all those who are unravelling your client and mafia network. But you know what? Let the story run out of them. That VOX is already in Parliament to give voice to that silenced Catalonia and that she is tired of her constant trophies. Because more and more Catalans want to close these media used as an ideological megaphone, they want to stop wasting Catalan money by awarding million-dollar contracts to the producers of their most loyal friends. The VOX Parliamentary Group is the only one in this chamber that proposes to close the corporation and allocate the 240_millions that we struggle to meet the real needs of Catalans. Because Catalans do not tolerate that as long as the queues of hunger continue to grow, as youth unemployment rises, as long as social housing in our region is scarce, while thousands of Catalan children have to study in barracks, you continue to waste every year 240_million for this platform of hatred. But, well, 240_million to you is that, besides, it still seems little, it's not enough. Therefore, while Catalans suffer the worst health, economic and social crisis in our recent history, you, far from protecting them, far from accompanying them and helping them to pull forward, have preferred to use part of the covid funds to buy a series of documentary about the 2017 coup. Gentlemen, it's embarrassing at the level of your sectarianism. They don't care about health, they don't care about well-being, they don't care about the needs of Catalans. They only care about the survival of their propaganda apparatus for the sole purpose of keeping themselves in power and continuing to live as millionaires. And that gives us reason, once again, when we affirm that the media dependent on the Generality are one more arm of their separatist mafia. VOX will not fall into hypocrisy like other groups in this chamber, such as the Socialist Party, which has put forward a plan to, they say, reform the Constitution, reform the corporation and remove that separatist drift. This, frankly, is curious to me, when it is precisely the Socialist Party that has brought separatism into the government of the nation, who have become the ambassadors of separatism in the state. And we will see it in the next few days, when Mr Illa's party pardons the coupsmen in the greatest act of betrayal of Spain and millions of Catalans we have been persecuted for years and years by separatism present here. [[Some applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we do not believe that the corporation has a remedy, we must close the one and we must do what we have to do as soon as possible. But until that day comes, and believe me that it will come, as the first national force in this chamber we will devote all our efforts to controlling its performance, monitoring to the last cent and exposing its shames and corrupting them to the Catalans as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.107.0	Next, to fix the position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy lord..., Xavier Pellicer, had pointed out. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, okay. Dani Cornellà, then.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.108.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, MPs and MPs, and good morning to all workers of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. Despite the fact that the extreme right has repeated it once and for all, and now they are talking about "xiringuites and everything they want, they know perfectly well that they are referring to what their predecessors already give of the "red, Masonic, independent contubernium. And it is that for you the problem is not the Catalan public media, or not only, since you, the extreme right, do not want to close only the Catalan public media; what they want is to close any media that does not divulge their fascist, racist and hate speech. Casually, as was done during the franchise. Actually, exactly the same. And, for another band, someone who presents this young man can't say that he's working to ensure what we think must be the corporation's purpose: the right to information, a right to information. If they do not bet on the tank, it seems that they are more in favour of applying it, as at least, authoritarian measures, supporters as they were already 155, and with the clear objective, therefore, of putting the public media in Catalonia in the service of Spanishism, corrupt monarchy and IBEX 35. And, of course, we find ourselves in the antipodes of the general sense of motion they present. Now, despite these constant beatings that have plagued Catalan public media from years ago, we can't afford to say that the corporation is not an oasis, it's not a mechanism where everything works perfectly, right? But it has a gear that, as we've felt more than once, like the least grinder. And it is that the corporation finds itself in a situation of emergence, of failed democracy and of need for imminent parliamentary intervention in order to stimulate the essential renovations and changes because this can face the capital challenges that it is currently facing. And this is an absolutely shared diagnosis across the sector, and we hope that so will most of the parliamentary groups that conform to this chamber. The Catalan public media have, therefore, important challenges and we must approach them immediately and quickly, because it is the key to their future. The renewal of governance is essential; the defence of public communication media as a strategic service, with all the impetus at the level of resources and funding it requires; the modernization and adaptation to current times; the improvement of the working conditions of workers and workers, both direct and indirect, of the corporation, or the impulse of the Catalan audiovisual communication space in the framework of the Catalan Countries. But the most immediate challenge is the renewal of the governing bodies. Almost two years ago, there was a law passed in Parliament in which we did not have a great deal of substance, such as co-management by the workers, but which, in any case, has not yet been complimented. There is an urgent need for corporate governance bodies to be split up in order to block the pace of falling into governance bodies, whether in absolute majority or in two-thirds. This does not mean that each party places its own in order to try to control. This has to be done. Calien governing bodies made up of non-partisan professional profiles and with a clear project that allows you to put, first of all, the strategic project needed to respond to the great challenges of the moment. Therefore, the receipt is very clear: dispartitization of the governing bodies and co-management through the incorporation of workers and workers. And speaking of these, it is also urgent to address the situation of inequalities that are experienced in the corporation, linked to gender inequalities, those linked to the new incorporations in much worse conditions and the working conditions, very precarious times, of subcontractors. And, finally, returning to the Ciutadans movement, we are to the antipodes of the political proposal that you are making for the Catalan public media. We share the right to information, the key role that the corporation has in maintaining and strengthening the Catalan language, the power of this as a strategic public service, and the right to information as a foundational right, for the benefit of people and not of the powers and interests that you most often defend and that do not get used to being the great majority, but the minorities and the elites. In any case, here is where we are working, and that is why we would vote that not your young man, except, therefore, a very concrete point, that at least on paper you have a head on the grounds that we are presenting here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.109.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Cornellà. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the paragraph of Deputy Susanna Segòvia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.110.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs..., Ciutadans' fellow MPs and fellow MPs show us that they start the legislature practically the same as they ended it; it seems that the result of the election has not been enough to make a little reflection on respect. And in the case of Catalan public communication media, therefore, follow this strategy of destructive and dull criticism. We will not find ourselves in an unbroken criticism without any nuance and, above all, so incisive and so, even so, violent towards the Catalan public communication media. We defend the Catalan public media: we believe that they need a programme contract in order to guarantee their sustainability and independence; we believe that they need sufficient resources to be able to exercise; we believe in the skills, professionalism and quality of all professionals who are part of it and who work there. In fact, we also believe that there is certainly much more installed capacity between Catalonia Radio and TV3 than to produce a good part of the programs that can be broadcast, and that it would certainly not be possible to externalize as much as it externalizes and that it would be necessary to seek this balance between internal production and the ability of the Catalan public media to be a motor, precisely, of audiovisual production. And all this is looking for a balance. We believe that the Catalan public communication media need to have a foundational role in the construction of cohesion and included it in Catalonia of values of critical thinking, defense in use and normalization in the use of the catalá, which continues to be necessary for it to continue advancing. We believe that it must also be a space that reflects plurality, the diversity of Catalan society. And here's where we begin to have already dull and negated how they are working lately as much Catalonia Radio as TV3. It's true that the hearings... at least in the case of TV3, not so much in the case of Catalunya Radio. But the hearings show that... in the case of TV3, so, you keep increasing the audience. But in the case of public media, audience cannot be the only criteria. It can't be, because public media must have public service criteria. And there may be programs, and there may be informational needs and training needs that do not have an immediate impact on the audience. So, I don't know, I'm thinking now about the Solidarity Program in Catalonia Radio, which is maybe a program that doesn't have high levels of audience, but it's a program that makes a public service and that can maintain, and that can maintain with its own production. But what seems pretty obvious is that this hearing every time is more homogenous. And that's a fact. And that's what the CEO says, and he's already referred to it. Every time there is more ideological homogenization of TV3 and Catalunya Radio's audience, and that is what we think is not good, and that is why we think it is necessary to reflect on why this is happening and that the technical managers of the corporation and those responsible, also Catalonia Radio and TV3, and also the political leaders, should reflect on respect and not always have this attitude a little self-fulfilling and defensive that everything we do is well done and the audience shows us. TV3's audience would have to reflect on Catalan society, and it doesn't do that right now. This means that a good part of Catalan society does not feel identified with the public media in Catalonia. And that's the reflection that we have on ourselves, isn't it? , and that we also do it at the level of the directions of the two bodies. But if you have a lot of work to do for the steering teams in Catalonia Radio and TV3, we also have a lot of work to do at the level of parliamentary groups – and it has already been mentioned – the renewal of corporate bodies. This..., we passed a law in October 2019 and we haven't taken a step forward yet. It's a responsibility that we have, it's a responsibility that we've come up with and we've been made clear by the business committees of both Catalonia Radio and TV3, and that he's a writer in the sector. We cannot continue with provisional organs, with expired organs and with organs that are not responding and do not have the ability to undertake model reform that requires Catalan communication media. Therefore, let's all replace each and every one of us to make this renewal possible as soon as possible. We talk to anyone, we listen to anyone, but we get our hands on the work and make this renewal. And, above all, that it is a renewal that does not return to be a division of falls, that in this case, in place of two parties, therefore, perhaps would be between three parties, but that would follow a division of falls. If we really want there to be a change in the transformation of the model of Catalonia Radio and TV3, we would need a lot more large majorities, than going far beyond these two thirds. It requires an effort on the part of everyone to find those people with professional solvency, with skill, experience and confirmed ideological neutrality, because they can lead this renewal of Catalonia Radio and TV3. So, let's get all of us in place, it's an emergency, and don't let any more time pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.111.0	Thank you. Then has the word, on behalf of Grup Mixt, the deputy Lorraine Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.112.0	Yes, thank you, President. A TV3 journalist exercises for the first time the consciousness clause for the ideological drift of the chain. Denunciation that it was removed after denouncing guidelines of the management to favor independence in the elaboration of contents. The TV3 journalist has requested to terminate his contract in the face of the hostile and denigrating treatment received and the ideological drift of the chain. A few days ago we were aware of this complaint made by Santiago Torres, until now a TV3 worker and, in addition, a journalist with a long career. And while I don't know the details of the case, I can tell you that when I read the news, the truth is it didn't surprise me. Do I think TV3 suffers from an ideological drift? Yes, of course. Do I think you use public television and the rest of the public media as a speaker for your nationalist postulates? Also. And, in fact, there is nothing more to see the fight between Esquerra Republicana and Junts, a few months ago, on account of the investiture of Mr Aragonès. You weren't arguing here... the fight wasn't about programmatic measures, the fight was about who was running Catalunya Ràdio and who was running TV3. And we already know how you spend it. In fact, just a few months ago, in the framework of Operation Vólkhov, you will recall that we had access to some telephone conversations, in particular to one between Mrs. Pilar Rahola and David Madí, where the collaborator complained about her little presence on TV3. During this call, Rahola explains that Puigdemont assured him that they would make Sanchis, the director of TV3, pay for his appearances. To what Madí answers to Rahola: "We already know Sanchis. He plays the horses and believes that the winning horse is the other – referring to the Republican Left – "and makes merits to survive the next day. Well, in addition to these visionary gifts of Sanchis that we did not know, this conversation unquestionably demonstrates how you control and direct the public media in Catalonia, and with what criteria, too, you select your collaborators or not. Employees who, for example, do not cut a hair when they say expressions like 'fucking Spain' as if nothing. That, by the way, in the last commission of the corporation, Mr. Vicent Sanchis said that he had no knowledge that this expression had been said on TV3. Well, I, from here, if Mr. Sanchis doesn't have time to see all the TV3 programming, I offer to explain to him in what program, what day, what band and what collaborator he is dedicated to using expressions, therefore, disgusting and hypanophobic like this, and some also similar. So yes, the public media in Catalonia are neither neutral nor plural, as point 1 of this motion says, nor do they reflect the meaning of Catalan society as a whole. Moreover, I will also say that they are dedicated to promoting hatred and division among Catalans. I also agree with the following points of the motion. The one who talks, for example, about the external audit; also the one who asks to review these recruitment criteria, especially after the 440,000_eurazos that you have paid to Mediapro for eight documentaries, on what subject? , for the theme of always, the process, because you have no interest in anything else. Today we are not clear where the EUR 440,000 has come from, because every time you are asked about these documentaries you make mutis for the forum. A few days ago, also in the commission of..., in the « body, known as this, I think we caught Mrs Llorach, because, I don't know, with the low guard, that it's a rare thing in it, I have to say it, but neither short nor lazy explained here that you allocated extra budget items following the covid and that with that you paid programs like Poland. That is to say, while you had, for example, the autonomous pending from a website to see if you could have access to one of those meager aids that you offered them, it turns out that you were saving games to keep injecting extra money into TV3 programs. I think it's outrageous and embarrassing. So, of course, also according to the fact that it is returned to the last cent that has been spent too much on these programmes. And I'm running out of time, but I don't want to leave this rostrum without a last thought. We are going to work tirelessly to recover the Catalan public media, to restore them to all Catalans and to recover from that degradation to which you have subjected them, because we are already tired of agitation and propaganda, we are already tired of the hatred that distils some of your collaborators and we are also tired of waste, especially in times as serious as the one we are living in from the pandemic. I honestly don't know if the other day Mrs. Llorach was caught in a carelessness or that you really have reached a point where you're not ashamed of anything at all.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.113.0	Then, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the word Frenchc Ten deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.114.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, very good morning; deputies and deputies, very good morning. So yes, we're here to debate a Ciutadans motion. A young woman who originates in an inquiry, who also originates in a question to the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. And in all three areas, more or less, literality, all forms have been more or less similar. The forms have not changed respect for the previous legislature in this, but the one that has changed is the representation and social support that this Group of Citizens has of the citizenry, both in the State and in Catalonia. And the forms I say have not changed, and not only have they not changed, but they have seen themselves worse, as you have been able to prove this morning, because of the appearance and appearance, therefore, of VOX, with words as slanderous and infamous as they are sick of hatred. Or the other day in this Faristol, on behalf of the Member, we felt that the one who makes TV3 or the one who makes the directives or the one that the Government does, I don't know who it attributed it to..., so he made an authentic ethnic net of the audience. But, excuse me, with what moral superiority can anyone get to talk this way? You, who criticize the independence of the media, have, like me, a report from the ACC in which, during this confinement, you say that TV3's information was the ones that collected the most diversity of political views from March to August 2020 and that gave time to thirty-five political groupings. It is a very well done report, which deepens and which, concretely, when it speaks of parliamentary information, says that the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, first of all of the opposition – this already knows that it is not so – is the one that added more time to TVE to Catalonia and TV3, and the Parliamentary Group Republic, to Catalonia Radio and RAC1. They will find us defending neutrality, independence, without interference and without double standards and in no place; they will find us, in this legislature, seeking to make the..., as a message from the PSC, which has not, unfortunately, been accepted, to renew the Board of Governors of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, as approved in this very Parliament in a law the year 19; here they will find us. And they will also find us defending reciprocity and joint emission and joint production of all Catalan speaking territories. Because this is a public service mission that the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation has: defending, promoting Catalan culture and Catalan language. They will also find us working for the rejoining of the staff; they will find us working to achieve an audience in these nine forms of audio-visual and radio-telephone consumption; to find ways to work for children's and young people's platforms; to find ways to continue feeling leaders, as TV3 feels during the last forty-months, and to be able to make a stable, powerful national radio model that you look forward to and that you regain an audience. But they won't find us using media to confront, and a systemic confrontation, and a low-level confrontation and a rude confrontation. Neither will they find us to attack and put into doubt the professionalism of the workers and journalists of the Catalan media. What's going on, I already understand that you don't like the work that all these professionals do is a work that conveys the Catalan reality, and like that you don't like this Catalan reality then is complaining and criticizing the work they do. You don't like it that you're making a documentary that denotes, that shows that the Marcha thesis was..., it's a thesis that falls for its own, and they don't like it that this, more than that, accompanies the leadership of TV3. We will always be defending a Catalan look at the Catalan public media, a look in a national clau, not an autonomous clau, and a look like a midjan with a proper reference mark. On positioning– very quickly, president–, we will do everything practically again. We'll make an agreement in one way... to a text that we're not very often, because we think the corporation already has other means to assess what's said in that text. And what we would have liked is for you to accept this Socialist Group theme. We do not understand how the proposed group wants the government to be the one that I proposed to Parliament to renew it. No, I'm sorry, this is our job. The renewal of the organs of the governing council, this is the work of this Parliament. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I'm done, President, with a sentence of yours. In this faristol you can talk about everything, but what I don't think you can do, as it happened today, is to say everything. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.115.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word deputy Raquel Sans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.116.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs... I'm also opening this thirty-year legislature at the Faristol a little the same way as I finished the previous legislature, which is with a Ciutadan youth attacking the country's public media. And it seems that in these first steps of the legislature, therefore, the thing does not vary very much: attacks on the language, the Catalan school, the public media... It is true that now we have to add the attacks of the ultrathreat, which wish us a legislature to see who says it the biggest. So, then, we'll be very careful. That said, today it's time to talk about this young man, who, as Congressman Ten said, we share in this young man's political globality. We would simply vote in favour of point 2.b, because what we are asking is to complete the lawfulness and, therefore, to be in favour of completing the legislation. But I'd like to take advantage of this intervention at the Faristol to talk about the priorities that we understand... the present and future priorities that we think have the country's public media. Former Ple, Councillor Vilagrà already referred to the priority of renewing the Board of Governor of the Catalan Corporation of Mitjans; not only the Board of Governor, but also the CAC, the governing bodies of the CAC – it is one of the priorities. And I would like to take the opportunity to express the commitment of this parliamentary group to do so, for this renewal in the long term. I'm sorry, huh? , the nerves of the tretzenth legislature. [[Some applause.]] As I said, the commitment of this formation to this renewal. TV3 and Catalonia Radio do not have in the eighties a reality of the audiovisual sector much different from the audiovisual panorama that we have today. And I think it's here where we have to focus, I think it's here where we have to put all our attention. In fact, we have reports from the ACC that tell us that the television and radio audience, so every time is smaller. They're losing a lot of public, they're losing on conventional television and radio. One_of_each_four persons younger than twenty-five years – one_of_each_four persons – no longer consumes television. And in terms of radio the audience is still more worrying, because only a 40_per_cent– not above 50_per_cent– of younger youths of twenty years do not consume radio, let's say, conventional. Therefore, here we have a repte de pays, we have an important repte, which generates an audiovisual context where Catalan language is a minority language. We have to put our emphasis here. The eruption of digital plataforms– Netflix, HBO, Disney, Amazon Prime, just to mention a few examples– puts us in a different panorama, places us in a new reality that forces us to take a new look. And here from our parliamentary group we understand that the idea, the concept of reciprocity, which had already been felt in the area of TDT, is still much more felt now. Reciprocated with the public media of Valencia, the Balearic Islands, the Catalan Countries. We think we should go further. We think we need to place a bet on a digital content platform in our language. Here we have a repte, because we have to go find the public where it is, we have to go find the public where it is. And I think that also, from the Catalan Midjans Corporation Control Commission, we need to have a demanding view of the country's public media. We are aware – some talked about it – of the good audiences, especially in the area of TV3, which I think are to applaud and which must be recognized in the current context. But I think we need to go further, and we need to see how, little by little, we lose public children and youth. And this is where we have to focus, not only on this change of habits, on these new forms of consumption, but also on the size of our language in the picture, on all the television and audiovisual offer we have. I invite you to do an exercise and think how much you contain, on any platform, you have in castle, in English, and how much you have in Catalan. Therefore, I believe that this must be a priority. I think this must be a priority of this Parliament. It's up to us, companies and companies, to take the challenge and work because future generations, that is, the generations of our children and girls, have guaranteed access to content in catal as we have. We can work with the will to find consensus, with the will to make this renewal that touches and put the public media of the country where it is needed. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.117.0	Next, and to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms. Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.118.0	Well, thank you to all the speakers. Well, things are better than I thought, because I see no one's got the bar to pretend that the corporation is going like a silk and doesn't have to change anything. To those who accuse us of wanting to carry it, to attack it and so on, I want to take a negit from them. I, as I said in my first intervention to the committee, estimate the communication media. I'm a long-running journalist and I'll do whatever I want, whatever it takes from me – and I'm convinced that my group too – therefore, to improve its functioning. This goes for you too, gentlemen of VOX. We have accepted them..., it is one of the groups to which we have accepted an amendment to try to bring them closer to the realistic dialogue, but, finally, it is not about throwing the child with dirty water into the bathtub; it is not about closing the TV, it is about opening the. We would like to invite you to realism and to join this effort and not see the bulls from the barrier. The PP. Well, let's go to work, I don't know if without rest or with him, but let's work on it; let's take it seriously. Special mention I would like to make of two groups that have not submitted papers, which have announced a separate vote, but I understand that a lot of lines say they are for the work. I'm referring to the CUP and the commons, which, well, as it couldn't be otherwise, if we have to believe what they say, some by anti-capitalists and others by advocates of progress, well, I suppose they agree that the... I know that for you to agree on something with Ciutadans is like Count Dracula going through a_manat of alls, but, well, it's already something that I understand that the corporation has to be renewed and that the 19th law that has been invoked here has already passed us like a queue before applying it. We should not run into false majorities, we should not fall from the opposite side and we should not steal the public contest, which is the only guarantee, given the drift of the media, that this went well. And this is my big cry to the PSC: sirs, it's up to you that this is a reality and not an empty promise. Please help us do the right thing, the right thing. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.119.0	Well, having called for a vote, we will then begin the vote. (Marta Vilalta i Torres asks to speak.) Yes, ma'am Vilalta?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.120.0	Yes, to ask for a separate vote on subpoint 2.b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.121.0	2.b. [[Alice Romero Llano asks to speak.]] Mrs. Romero?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.122.0	Yes, we would like to vote separately on the 2nd, 3rd and 4th.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.123.0	2a, 3 and 4. [[David Cid Colomer asks to speak.]] Mr. Cid?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.124.0	We would like to vote separately from '1 and 2.b, which is that they could vote together. Of the 2a, 2.b and 2.c, they could vote together. I of the 3rd and 4th, which is they could vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.125.0	Well, okay, we'll all vote... Dani Cornellà Detrell asks to speak. ) Mr. Cornellà?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.126.0	We ask for point 2.b separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.127.0	All right, fine. So we shall proceed to the vote. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1 was not approved, with 52 votes in favour, 70 votes against and 8 abstentions. Next, we vote on point 2.a. The vote begins. This point is also approved, with 19 votes in favour, 111 against. We're voting now on point 2.b. The vote begins. This point was approved with 122 votes in favour and 8 votes against. We're voting now on point 2.c. The vote begins. This point is also approved, with 52 votes in favour, 77 against and a vote before us which has not voted. We're voting point three now. The vote begins... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The 2nd asked for...? I'm sorry, so much! It wasn't asked separately, but like we're all voting for them already... 2.d, we're voting now on point 2.d. The vote begins. That point was also approved, with 52 votes in favour, 69 against and 8 abstentions. Now, let's vote point three. The vote begins. That point was also approved, with 27 votes in favour and 103 votes against. And finally we vote on point 4. The vote begins. That point was also approved, with 27 votes in favour and 103 votes against. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the economic situation]] [[302-0005/13]] Let's move on to the twenty-one point of the order of the day, the Movement following the question to the Government on the economic situation, which present the Socialists and Units Group for Progress. And to expose her, has the word the lady Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.128.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor, president, deputies and deputies. We presented this motion following the inquiry that we have already made to the government on the assumptions of 2021 and 2022. I would like to remind you that on the 9th of February, when the election campaign took place, the student candidate of Esquerra Republicana and vice president of the Economy, he committed himself to bringing to his investiture the agreement of government accompanied by the agreement of assumptions. One thinks that, taking into account, therefore, that he was precisely responsible for Economy, those assumptions were already working for 2021, but neither in the first, nor in the second nor in the third successful investiture, finally, of the very honorable President Aragonès was incorporated into this agreement of assumptions. I guess you're tough, huh? , bring a presupposition agreement. In short, it is only possible to remember what happened in 2016 through 2017, with the members of the CUP, with the assumptions, when there was also a government agreement. But, in any case, it's a word that hasn't been fulfilled, it's a compromise that won't come to an end, just like Councilman Giró told us in the interview. But to us it seems bad news, because it seemed, or we thought that this could have been prepared for, precisely, entering these premises and with an emergency procedure, with an emergency procedure, so it has been approved. I want to remind you that last year, 2020, we approved the premise in a two-month and two-day term, it is to say that with a very short time we were able to approve some assumptions, with a term that was not..., that was normal, that was ordinary; imagine urgently, we could still do a little faster. He hasn't been like that, and we think he's missing an opportunity under these assumptions. Not only do we believe this, but also the social and economic agents, both the trade unions and the employers, who insisted, in the various meetings with the councillors and the president, which was important, but also to give a clear message in relation to 2021, above all because the 2020 design of the assumptions of 2020 was made before the pandemic; therefore, it did not give a response or a solution to the health crisis and the consequent social and economic crisis brought about by the covid-19. Therefore, in view of this situation, therefore, it seemed to us that you had been right to wear, this month of June, to be able to approve it before the end of the session period, the presupposition of the year 2021. And we've had six months of col. What's that supposed to mean? That we could have prioritized, we could have incorporated more resources, and above all some of the commitments that the Government had, for example, with the National Plan for the Knowledge Society, which by 2020 already incorporated 84_million, by 2021, 84 more. It wasn't 2020, it's not 2021, and so we're losing, we're losing the ability to respond to the so important challenges that this country has. So, it seems to us that it's a bad decision that the government didn't make a sprint. At the end and the end, we all have our functions, our responsibilities, and the government has this. And, finally, we've lived in this room for years of presuppositional prosuppositions, but it seems to us that this year, with a pandemic, with a pandemic, with presuppositions designed before that, it was up to us to do that. Therefore, it is hard for us to know that the compromise of the candidate student of Republican Left and current president of the Generality does not have a concrete answer with assumptions by 2021. It seems to us that the generality is prepared to make some assumptions. They were presuppositions, therefore, that could certainly already be worked, because, among other things, the counselor also told us the other day that presuppositions have already been made. Home, so if we're already planning to make assumptions changes, if they've already been made, it might not be so hard to prepare some assumptions by 2021. Therefore, in the motion, what we are asking for is precisely this: it is present in fifteen days a project of presupposition for 2021. I know that this proposal will not be approved, I am not naive, but well, we presented the proposal because it seems important to us. And then another thing we asked of him is to present, before October 10, 2021, the assumptions for 2022 so that the 1st generation comes into force. This hasn't happened in years. I have accepted a statement from the Group of Joints for Catalonia that I have negotiated with Mr Canadell; we have discussed it before October 10, but I have already told Mr Canadell that if it is not the 10 it will be the 15th, because, if not, we will not, by the end, reach the 1st generation that the 2022 premise is in effect. I've also accepted a commons group statement. I also want to thank Mr. Gallego for his predisposition. We made a deal. Because we have said: if at last, therefore, they do not agree to present some assumptions by 2021, at least that we come to present the assumptions changes, that there is a certain transparency. This government, I must tell you, Counsellor Giró, has remained transparent in many cases. You have the opportunity in your own appearance, but I also suggest that you can gather your wallets and explain these changes to us. I did it to Vice President Aragones when I was an economic advisor, and I think that this was good for generating a relationship of complicity and, above all, because we have information, because, if not, it costs us a lot to know the detail, the concrete detail of the proposals and the things that you approve. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.129.0	Next, and to defend the proposed proposals, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mr Joan Canadell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.130.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, today is my first intervention from this Faristol. I want to take this opportunity to make it clear that I am here to defend Catalonia's independence and to transform our country's economic and social model into a model similar to that of the countries..., the small advanced states of Europe. Congresswoman Romero, good morning. You ask us to make assumptions in 15 days for the year 21. He knows very well – and Councillor Giró said – that we would have to come to twenty-three weeks to make good assumptions and that, moreover, even though it was by the way of urgency, hardly with a new government all just constituted we would arrive in October/November having these assumptions, and we would have to hold them from 2022 until then. He also knows that the State communicates imports of beasts and liquidations at the end of July. Since the year 78 there have never been any presuppositions before the 10th of October, for this reason. We hope that the day we remain independent, too, will be able to escape and we will continue to be more efficient in the face of the citizen. As it is, it is planned to present the assumptions of 2021 so that the 1 gene can come into force. And this is the government's commitment and we've made explicit with this item of item 2 that you kindly accepted. You know that we're not supposed to be able to extend the new 1,1_per_cent presuppositionary limit of GDP – they were also told by Councillor Giró yesterday – and, in fact, it's been done, huh? , and he explained it with this incorporation of these 1,800_million euros that are already incorporated. I'd also... I'd like to make it to your May 22nd inquiry, Mrs. Romero. You did a little demagic cheating about the tax deficit. He used the words of the 2014 Mas-Colell advisor, to whom I certainly want to take advantage to send full support in the face of this attack which he has rejected from the Court of Auditors. You and the other parties of this unionist use the statements of Councillor Mas-Colell that he claimed that the fiscal deficit was 2,405_million in 2014. And that's a lie. He clearly denied it with an article, Professor Albert Carreras, that, in any case, he did not speak of fiscal deficit but of consolidated assumptions and that in any case he was neutralized by the public deficit of the State, which was, in the year 2014, 6_per_cent. This places the fiscal deficit – official, huh? – 2014 at 8.4_percent of GDP. A total of 16.570_million euros. Miri, with more recent data, in 2019, according to the website of the Spanish hacienda, Catalans paid taxes to the State 43,000_million euros. The assumption of that year, the presuppositionary expense relief was 26,000_millions. The difference... I know this isn't directly the fiscal deficit, huh? But the difference, these 17,000_millions, is the order of magnitude, precisely, of the fiscal deficit, and is the order of magnitude of the tragedy that this country saw in the next thirty years. 40 percent of the taxes we pay Catalans go in and don't come back. What is the impact of this 40_per_cent of taxes on Catalans' lives? If, according to you, it was so important to make assumptions to achieve 2,000 million more – which is not true, we have already told you –, imagine having these 18,000 million euros, which will be the fiscal deficit, surely, of 2019. Listen, suffering a 40_per_cent tax deficit we've been paying for 30 years has meant the evil of many Catalans who have lost a whole generation since they didn't arrive at the end of the month, without enough social help, with problems at the hospital waiting lists, paying school zero to three years, not studying all childhood in barracks, miserable pensions of our opinions, among many other hard things that we have suffered and will continue to paint until we follow a republic. For this reason, as the government agreement between Junts and Esquerra declines, the announcement that we first want to draw up, in parallel with the assumptions, the national accounts of a Catalonia State in order to visualize the economic potential respects the current situation, it will be clear that eliminating the fiscal deficit will have an unimaginable positive impact for everyone, who votes, even all their voters. With respect to going to the Tax and Finance Policy Council. Why do you want us to go? To carry the suitcase with 50_million euros a day and hand it over to Mr. Sanchez? You know very well that these finds are a coffee for everyone. You don't negotiate anything, it's all settled. We are more in favour of bilateral relations State-General until we follow a republic. And if they really want to help improve the financing, keeping in mind Mr. Sánchez that he completes with the law of dependence, with the additional third of the Statute, or that he compensates for a share of the deficit accumulated in infrastructures, valued for the Chamber of Commerce in 45,000_million euros in 2019. The problem is they don't have them, these moneys, in Spain. Our money has been spent on cars without cars, airports without planes, trains without passengers, bank rescue, beaver compensation and other holidays. And from parties, we don't want to pay any more. And that's why we want independence. And to participate in the new funding system, honestly, we don't expect anything. Better financing is not a compromise of this government, but of President Sánchez. In any case, he has been in office since 2018 and, as far as we know, has not made any proposals. What are you doing? For us, the best system of financing is that of full financial sovereignty, which goes through a similar state. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.131.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.132.0	Yes, thank you, President. Deputies... Mrs Romero, of course, new government, new legislature, new presupposition. We are in a time, effectively, of reconstruction and transformation; but – let's put it there – not of precipitation or opportunism, eh? You know perfectly well, Mrs Romero, that there will be no presupposition by 2021. And it's an arithmetic question, a calendar question – we just explained it – and I'd say it's almost common sense, too. We agree with you: the context of post-pandemic recovery makes our own assumptions more necessary than ever. So much! There was certainly also the need for 2020, which allowed us to complete the reversal of the detail. But we remind them that if those assumptions were not approved – and if it were for you that they had not been approved – the interbanks to mobilize the resources needed to deal with the cove would have multiplied. In that moment of urgency, other times you chose the political game at short notice, of immediate profit, in accounts of a built position. Let us hope that, as they have proclaimed in public, in this legislature it remains different. If the assumptions of 2020 were necessary, the propers are still more essential. But let's not force ourselves to do an absurd and life-long exercise limited to just over thirty days. We are working, yes, for a country agreement, to lay the first various stones from the public sector for a useful recovery and transformation project for the next two years, as at least. The covid has left to the discovery the shortcomings of our economic model, certainly: inequality, precariousness, short-termism, lack of sustainability. With a wide list of outstanding duets: reindustrialisation, green economy and knowledge drive, territorial balance, balance, also, between work and capital, sure. Now that vaccination is moving forward with this rhythm, in short, very positive, and that the disease seems to be in stagnant life, we feel that they would want to – as I say? – replace the transformation for continuity. We can't disagree more. The pandemic is not, it cannot be a parenthesis, Mrs Romero. It has to be a point of inflection. It's got to be a tipping point. But they want this thesis of parenthesis. They say to us: "Do the same as before, but still more. And you're seeing powerful and repeating that you feel day to day. But we can't go back to the mistake we made as the country did 20 years ago, betting almost exclusively on growth at any price and on the real estate and tourism boom. And even less can we fall into the black hole of the other extreme: that of austerity and the imposing details from the great European popular socialist coalition since 2008. Now they can't let anyone back. Make it clear: we will bet on stronger public services, on an entrepreneurial state, on public leadership in recovery from the indispensable complicity with Catalan society. There's a lot of work to do and here's where the assumptions have to be used to clear the country time of this new Republican Generality. The thought that we have presented in its second point assumes the compromise, therefore, to present these assumptions as soon as possible, but without setting dates that add unnecessary difficulties to the negotiation process that will be hot. If what they want is to make politics useful, don't be obsessed with the date the assumptions arrive, and work because when the Councillor Turns them up you are clear what magnitudes come from the decisions of the central government and what mechanisms – very important – and how to administer the Next Generation funds. We will not accept a scene with a strong limitation of the Catalan government's own spending – the ordinary expense of reversal – and at the same time with all the protagonists reserved for the State and for the big corporations, with the use and abuse of the proposals Next Generation. We will contribute in the time that comes – and you know it – dialog. We defend amnesty and self-determination, which are the majority consensus in Catalan society. If your message to the Catalans, Mrs Romero, is to reform the financing system or negotiate a new attribution of skills, make the proposal; do not expect us to do it for you. Convince the government to do it, and we'll see if they can seduce or not. Do not follow the Rajoy model: shut up and let go of time, as they have done so far. And we don't ask ourselves to validate the centralist and radial model of the Spanish State. That's why, from you to you: we'll find solutions, we can find solutions, but we won't be decorating in spaces like interterritorial councils, where so much so that there are all the autonomous communities, it doesn't serve to influence or make real decisions. We do not intend to legitimize the stone card decoration that is the supposed co-governance mechanisms in the Spanish State. In summary, therefore, at the first point we would vote against, even though they would have to withdraw it, because it is an obvious impossibility that it does not pay the penalty to discuss it. Next, we'll do a constructive project – we've done it. And we'll abstain in the third and fourth points. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.133.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, has the word Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.134.0	Well, good morning to all of you. We have presented a message to this young man because we want to reinforce the agreement we have with the background of this young man. We have a clear agreement on this motion for necessity, for opportunity and for empire; for democratic necessity, for economic and ecological opportunity and for social empire. We were, out of democratic need. We all know that the premise is the most important political act that Parliament must do at all times, right? And we know that today we are talking about the presupposition of 2021, the extended 2020, which is what is theoretically in force, is fiction, is unreal. We are in the day-to-day changing the execution, the presupposition management, with laws, with urgent measures, with help, because reality requires it. But we know, too, that today we have an availability of more than 1,000_million euros if we increase the top of the deficit. We know that from the month of July extraordinary resources came to address the Next Generation plans. We know that there will be sufficient resources to address the second half of 2021. And that can't get away with it. It would be a democratic fraud to steal from the Parliament of Catalonia the necessary debate on how to prioritize, which are the needs in which we must prioritize the resources of this second semester. That is why we are calling for an adequacy of the 2020 budget here, in its parliamentary office, to be discussed democratically. We'd like to make a 2021 assumption, but if it's not possible to make it right. Therefore, due to democratic need, but also due to economic and economic opportunity, because we are ahead of important and transcendental moments of change. The presupposition of 2020 with which we are acting is made with the information bases that we had at the end of 2019. The world has changed, Catalonia has changed, the pandemic has changed the issues. And today we have to strategically get out of the crisis situation, we have to apply the resources for a strategic exit from the current crisis situation. And, therefore, we need to adapt resources precisely with strategic vision. We are providing timely aid to economic sectors that need it, but possibly these aid has been geared towards covering losses for the purpose of the pandemic's mandated activity. But there isn't enough help or urgent measures to cover losses. Aid must also be geared towards changing models, changing country strategies. That's why we need to discuss what measures these own months are taking. Therefore, there is a need for democracy, economic and economic opportunity, but also for social needs. The pandemic has exposed the enormous social ills that our country has in all sectors, not just of the great people. Social exclusion, poverty, inequality have increased. There are enormous social needs to address them, too, from the presuppositional policy. That's why we're asking you to do this presupposition debate that I'm allowing you to adapt. This is an important issue, but it can also be ensured that the 1st generation of 2022 already has the presupposition of 2022 in force. And that means that we need it as the Department of Economics puts information and proposals on the table to start working on it and, in turning from the holiday period of the summer, to actually start working on what are the needs and strategic priorities that this country needs to do. That is why we need this urgency and we also agree, therefore, that the 1st generation should be in force. But if the 1st generation is to be in force, it means we have to start working on it, so much from the debate with the economic and social agents that the government will have to do, but also in its parliament. This democratic debate needs to be done with time and quality. And that means that, if possible, October 10th, as soon as possible, September 1st, if possible, we can start working the 2022 assumptions. We adapt the 2021s in this last semester and urge its presentation of the 2022s. But, obviously, we know that there's not enough of the assumptions. We also need to approach tickets. We're not just talking about prioritizing spending. What were we getting into? We'll talk about tax model – we'll talk about it – but we also need to review a finance model that we know is exhausted, which expired in 2014. I need to adjust it. Catalonia cannot give up its presence in the negotiation of a new financing model. We have to lead the change in the funding model, because what we have knows is that it is unfair, that it creates difficulties in relation to the reality and the needs of Catalonia. We can't leave the cadira empty, we have to be there. But we don't just have to be there to guarantee the best that Catalonia needs, but also to lead a model change, as we've done historically from Catalonia, and that it's gone well when we've been leading this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.135.0	Then, to fix the position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.136.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is obvious that, over the last few years, the separatists have carried out a truly catastrophic economic and budgetary policy. And that's not questionable. That is, as evidence of this two data: in ten years not one budget submitted in time – not one – and they have only submitted two budgets in the last six. Of course, it has not been the great priority of separatism. Separatism, like a band of incompetent, irresponsible and senseless, has devoted itself to other things, but not to the things of eating. They have taken advantage of the state of autonomy to enrich themselves as they impoverish most Catalans. He has behaved like a Trojan horse caught up against Spain that they hate so much, based on lies, blackmails and a tearful account that causes shame to others. For example, that of the fiscal deficit we just heard today, which is like the balm of Fierabrás that cures everything, isn't it? They have been sowing, with this instability, the massive flight of companies for years. « The Box is gone. Counselor, you can make it clear to us that you didn't happen to leave, can you? He left for a few reasons. He left because of the political instability that his colleagues had generated today. They have created a mastodontic public administration, where nepotism and corruption have encamped to its breadth. Catalonia has lost the economic leadership of Spain: hundreds of chiringuitos in addition, a fiscal hell we talked about the other day, Spain's largest public debt, garbage bond, systemic deficit and third-party social services. In short, pure economic decline. Having said that, I must confess to them that I am quite puzzled to see the PSC trying, through this motion, to look like the new champion of rigour and budget orthodoxy. The same PSC that every time he rules ruins us, now wants to look like a serious and rigorous party. I confess that when I witnessed the interpellation two weeks ago, that constantly came to my mind that of" said the pan to the casket, didn't it? That is, because I..., some of us still remember that it was precisely with the PSC of Maragall and Montilla when in Catalonia the public debt began to be unleashed, the public deficit that we have not come out of was seized, and it raised enough of the taxes that we continue to pay today. Therefore, to Caesar what is Caesar's. I do not mean that the separatists do everything wrong, because the socialists also have their share of blame for what has happened in Catalonia. Therefore, Mrs Romero, the Socialists are not to give lessons of economic policy or budgetary austerity, not even the separatists. Spain, moreover, with its most admired Sánchez at its head, today is one of the economies that has fallen the most worldwide as a result of the pandemic, where unemployment has increased the most, where we lead youth unemployment worldwide, only surpassed by South Africa. Therefore, in the end, a party whose management is so unfortunate is not to teach anyone lessons. We also get out of hand, at the Spanish level, the debt, the unemployment, the deficit, and you only know how to square the accounts by hammering and raising taxes. Therefore, the PSC and the PSOE are not exactly the living image of what needs to be done, and on this issue I think they would be better quiet. With regard to the text of the motion, we will obviously support two pergrulladas: meeting the legal deadlines for a budget in the 22, obviously – we will comply with the law, obviously – we will vote in favour; that the councillor participates in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, obviously, must participate, what was very rare is that he did not participate, which was an authentic... in short, an act of rebellion more of separatism, right? And about the budget in fifteen days, let me think about it. Mrs Romero, let's be serious. Do you really think you can make a public budget in fifteen days? In fifteen days you can make a...? Is that how you do it? Do you make budgets in fifteen days? Do you think that a counselor who has just landed can make a budget in fifteen days so that in October we will reopen another melon and reopen this debate and do so again? Let's be serious – let's be serious. Of course we need a budget in Catalonia, but it is that the solution you propose almost makes the issue worse. Therefore, we cannot support this issue. Because, finally, I believe that giving tools to the Government, to a councillor who has just arrived, and putting himself to make a budget, without having landed even in what is the day-to-day administration of the Generalitat, is a grave irresponsibility. Therefore, we, this proposal..., if you accept the separate vote we will vote in favour of the two peregrines and against the two reckless occurrences that Mrs Romero has raised. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.137.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, has the words of Congresswoman Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.138.0	Thank you, President. I'll be brief, because we were wondering, a little bit, what was the purpose of this young man. And you, when you started your intervention, you've already let it go. In the background it's about making..., or remembering situations we've already experienced and putting the focus or pressure back on whether independence has more or less agreement and moving forward. That is to say, he has remembered 2016 and 2017, and has repositioned the CUP as responsible for whether or not there is a presumption or indeed a situation. Therefore, we will not go into this, but we do want to make some reflections, on the basis, also, to interventions that have gone out. We agree it's an opportunity to make assumptions. Yeah. It's an opportunity to do things absolutely different from what's always been done. It is an opportunity to learn from how the Public Administration has managed public services for many years. He has been managing them by decapitalizing the Public Administration, transferring public money to capital or private entities because he was unable or unwilling to manage it. Therefore, maximize for the benefit of others and unresponsible for their functions. Therefore, yes, they are an opportunity to stop working for inertia. They are an opportunity to really start transforming society and, therefore, the social and economic transformations that Mr Gallego was also proposing. We share that, but we will also agree that, most likely, when you plant that in fifteen days it is done this..., it would be fine, yes, yes, we, no problem; but we remain realistic and do not cheat on the lonely. Mr. Maragall also spoke of public servants. I will say to him: yes, you serve publics, that they are publics; that they do not serve because a few enrich themselves with the basic rights of the people. Therefore, that the assumptions serve for this and serve to begin to focus on a health system that is truly public; that the assumptions serve to begin internalizing the 061; that the assumptions serve to not re-create a million-dollar health transport contest, which was the last contest of the Boi Ruiz era, which for which it has been used to pre-characterize workers and to pre-characterize a service, such as the health transport service, which is an essential service. These are some of the examples that we could pose. Yesterday we also talked about 112, that the week that you will make a vacancy because of a servant who for years has been outsourced and pre-characterized. That's also making assumptions that give answer and transform. In change, in the young man, the feeling that she gives us is that she is trying to continue with this inertia. Mr. Maragall also spoke of the Next Generation fonds. Here, too, Mr Gallego spoke, and in a more indirect way, Mrs Romero did not speak either. The first is that the Government of the State remains transparent with how it wants to manage these foundations. The second, too, is that we stop saying that the Generality will have some role to play, because until now the Generality has been the only one that has been selecting twenty-six emblematic projects, which deepen the transfer of public capital to the big companies of IBEX 35, which does not differ greatly from what the Government of the State is doing and wants to do, but little capacity for decision in the social and economic transformation that this country needs. And finally, listening attentively to the inquiry made by Mrs Romero. You said that you were willing to help negotiate a new financing system, because under the assumption of..., as you have already done with the assumption of 2021 of the Government of Spain that there are investments that are close to us for GDP... Ah, that's fine! Now we must thank the Socialist Party of Catalonia for forcing the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol to complete what is written by law. Thank you. And, finally, I also said that an effort has been made... or so, that they are, right? , or that too..., with the idea of the third additional provision. We'll also have to thank what you're doing to what you're supposed to have committed many years ago. The feeling that it gives us is that you understand that independence has increased or clearly grew out of the feeling of the Constitutional Court of the State and, therefore, what you want to do is to move to two years ago and to see that these two years have not passed; that there have not been two years of repression; that there have not been two years of constitutional detail systematically passed to the sovereign laws of this Parliament and, therefore, that what they want is to relimit the sovereignty of this Parliament and this country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.139.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Mr Joan García, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.140.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Councillor Giró, welcomeut. We'll start with that, precisely, because of what you said, right? It was not long ago that I announced that there would be no budgets and, therefore, I think it is quite clear that we can discuss this motion, we can vote on it, but there will be no budgets in this 2021 for different reasons that have been expressed here. But I wanted to delve a little deeper into the excuse, didn't I? Yesterday Mr Aragonès told us precisely why: because there was no time, because it was impossible to get there. But it is that time, gentlemen, you have lost it since February, negotiating and failing to fulfil Mr Aragonès' own promises, which he said would coordinate the achievement of a new budget, of a new government with the budgets that are so necessary for us. Maybe what's going on is they're really afraid of having to go in and negotiate. First, because they already have internal problems within the Government, both because they are part of it two different parties, very different in many respects, but they also have to do that, let's say, work to convince the CUP and its sails and its whims and to fit those within this budget, with which, simply, then, they buy time and already is. It's okay; you pull forward. Because, moreover, this is what the last ten years have done; that is to say, the last ten years this Parliament has not seen budgets before October 15 practically..., well, never; indeed, never. But they have not even been extended for many years. And when they have made budgets, they have made them either late or bad or illegal, like those of the 17th, which, by the way, we must remember that some of the members of that government are in jail for misappropriating funds from those budgets, and that it is important that we take it very much into account, and especially for the PSC, which wants to pardon them. Mrs Romero already knows that what these gentlemen did in the 17th, that you are now going to pardon after stealing resources from all Catalans and not using those for what they had to use, which are many things and many purposes that we believe are important. And then there's last year's. Last year some budgets were made, which had been prepared in the 19th, which arrived in the 20th. It was true that a pandemic appeared and that it was very difficult to pose. But, as my colleague, economist José María Cano, former fellow Member of this Parliament, commented, it could have been rectified, they could have been negotiated in another way so that we could not find ourselves this year with a budget that is going to be extended and that, moreover, it was not adapted to the reality of the pandemic, of the post-crisis that comes next. The need for budgets has been discussed. And it is clear that we have an obligation to defend that there are budgets and we want that there are also budgets on 1 January 2022. And, therefore, in this we agree with one of the proposals that the PSC has also made. We want budgets that end this idea that the Generalitat Administration is practically in an irresistible deficit and technical bankruptcy. This was said by the trustee, whom we had here not long ago. We therefore want budgets that are different from those of 2020. Budgets that, for example, do not lower the investment in health – by the way, in the midst of the pandemic. Budgets that introduce measures of regeneration of the Administration, not an increase of 15_per_cent of the high offices of the Administration. Budgets that work against the instability and temporality of public workers. Budgets that act against customer networks. Budgets that devote the 900_million we have of excess fat of the Administration to what has to be used; for example, in housing policies, in the fight against waiting lists of dependence. I mean, budgets that... to also work for innovation and research and entrepreneurship. Useful budgets that we can have all Catalans and that are very much needed. Therefore, we, in this concerned motion of the PSC, will abstain on the first points, on which everything is intended to be done, all the processing urgently; we believe that it is not appropriate, and I believe that in the end the opposition loses in this capacity to control and to draw up these budgets. And, basically, we will vote in favour of the two obviouss that are in the end, of attending everything that the Government of the Generalitat has to attend, which works for all Catalans. Thank you very much, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.141.0	And, in the last place, has the word, on behalf of the Group Mixt, the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.142.0	Thank you very much, President. The truth is that the motion, if we focus exclusively on its wording and not on its intentions, that I believe all groups have agreed to consider the perverse, Mrs Romero..., should be concerned, because everyone attributes bad intentions to them in it; it is true that for different reasons, right? But good. In the end, what we have to vote on is a text, and the text, before the amendments were included, because it was practically impeccable – the text, I mean, not the intentions; but the text was. That is to say, adapting the budget, making a new one, assisting the fiscal and financial policy councils, participating in the debates of a new financing system is part of, finally, the institutional normality in which Catalonia should have been immersed for a very long time, and which, unfortunately, since the separatist process began, has been completely broken. And, well, to most of these points, as they stand, we will vote in favour. But they have introduced one, which is specifically the first a, in the amendments, in which they talk about the public deficit, and they do so with enormous frivolity. Because you are ruling, and the groups asking you to include it are also governing with you in the Government of Spain. And you know perfectly well that it is no longer just an ideological issue whether you can raise the public deficit or not, it is that everyone knows perfectly – and you know better than anyone, that you are governing – that when the conditions of the European Union for the funds arrive it will be exactly the opposite. And that of accepting motions with things that are well known to be the opposite is one of those elements that ends up destroying the credibility of the institutions and the credibility of politics in general, because in the end it gives the impression that things are voted in this Parliament knowing perfectly that they are a lie, right? , and I think we should collectively make an effort in the opposite direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.143.0	Thank you very much. And then, to position herself on the exams, has the word Ms. Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.144.0	Good morning to you all again. You've said so many things that I don't have, in two minutes, time to answer them all. See, about the tax deficit, I don't want to go any further. There is a 2015 report by Councillor Andreu Mas-Colell on '1,6_per_cent of GDP'. And besides, he's saying something that seems very appropriate to me, and he said it a long time ago. Says: "SchoolsThe conflict over independence has nothing to do with the fiscal deficit, but with self-government. Let's see if we're talking a little bit... I'm okay with him, too. In other words, maybe we stop doing empty dogmatic phrases and get to work a little bit more. In the system of autonomous financing... that you, of course, will abstain, even though it is an obligation of yours to attend the Tax and Finance Policy Council. If we want more Catalan tickets and we want a more just system, man, then it would be good if you participated. At last... and now I'll tell him something I know they won't do, which is lead. Yesterday precisely at the Circle of Economy the entrepreneurs asked it: that Catalonia returned to lead. So it would be good for leaders to also have this system of autonomous financing that will be approved again and that the People's Party certainly did not put any proposal on the table, Mr.Fernández, as long as you speak; cap, zero, did not want to talk, did not want to look at the conflict or Catalonia. On the presupposition of 2020, Mr.Maragall, you want to join, and we will not do it – we will not do it –, neither the presuppositions nor the proposals of the Government. We'll talk, we'll wake up and we'll make a deal, but we won't make any accessions. The debt. Mr Gallego, when the tripartite was gone it was 32,000_million_of_euro; now it is around 80,000_million. I'm saying that because you look at the numbers, because they don't seem to know. And I'll tell VOX one thing. I'd like you to have a little respect. You will not shut us up; you have already liked them, but forty years ago there has been a democracy here, that I do not admit that you tell me to shut up. Therefore, here we will always go out and say what we believe. And I'd ask you to be a little more careful. And another thing, as long as he speaks and criticizes the socialists: the bishops of Catalonia, eh? They are in favour of dialogue and pardons. Maybe you're modernizing a little and moving forward, too, in your thoughts. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.145.0	Well, before the vote starts, are there any requests from the groups? [[Marta Vilalta and Torres ask to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Vilalta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.146.0	Thank you, President. We would like to ask for separate vote from point 2 and also separate vote from points 3 and 4, which in this case points 3 and 4 could be grouped together. [[Eulàlia Regant and Cure ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.147.0	Mrs. Regant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.148.0	To ask for a separate vote on points 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.149.0	Two and three. [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]] Mrs. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.150.0	Yes, Madam President, for a separate vote on paragraph 1a, the letter to. [[Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.151.0	Mr. Martin White.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.152.0	President, in case someone was missing, I think we are also calling for a separate vote from point 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.153.0	Separated. All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.154.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.155.0	Any more demands? Don't you? [[Pause.]] Perfect. So let's start the vote. We will vote in the first place on the 1a a point. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 47 votes in favour, 80 votes against and 2 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 2. The vote begins. This was approved with 113 votes in favour, 1 against and 15 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 3. The vote begins. This point received 59 affirmative votes and 70 abstentions. And now we're voting point four. The vote begins. Point 4_has held 49 affirmative votes, 19 negative votes and 61 abstentions. And now, let's go vote for the rest of the young lady. The vote begins. The motion was not adopted, with 43 votes in favour, 79 votes against and 6 abstentions. At this point, the order of the day suspends the session until this late. Remember, now there's the Spokesman's Board and we'll start the session at a quarter of four. Okay? [[Pause.]] Thank you very much. End of the day.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.156.0	Perfect. So now we've got secretaries. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into housing policies]] [[302-0004/13]] Let's start the new item of the order of the day, the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on housing policies, presented for the CUP - A New Cycle to Win. And to expose her, has the word Mrs. Montserrat Vinyets. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.157.0	Yes, thank you, President. Members, Members, today we carry in this House the motion that is the consequence of the housing inquiry in which the CUP has exhausted its basic lines in housing. A motion that we presented and that was discussed in part, negotiated with the political parties of the Republican Left and Together. And that, well... that we introduce them, right? by means of a vote and consideration of this chamber. For what he does to the young lady, which is not long, but we understand that it affects the aspects that we consider most important or urgent to face, so we want to highlight some things that we are now moving on to relate. In the first place, to stop following housing policies as an immediate, extraordinary and urgent need and to start to apply, already – we carry many years back – structural measures that vaginate to the hindrances of the problem. In particular, there is already a commitment to do this, which is five thousand annual habitats to be laid in the public park. We take into account that today the Incasol has the ability to look for five hundred habitats per year. So, the advent, right? , where these five thousand have to be built, but it's already an adventure in which the Incasole has been and we understand that it has to encompass itself more in the future. Second place, very important. Create a specific legislative agenda. Create right. To give an answer to all..., to the escapes of law coming from the Constitutional Court, to all those measures that escape the sovereignty of this Parliament and, very concretely, to give already to the transitory disposition, precisely from this law of surrender content, which has now gone to the Constitutional Court. This transitory arrangement asked the chamber that we started to legislate to configure the lease of goods in Catalan civil law. And this means starting to regulate, on the part of the Parliament of Catalonia, the law of urban leases where it is about the contracts, which must have a duration that guarantees the right to live in a stable and dignified way in a habitation, which you make, and a very important thing: we have to take away the great affections, the socimes, the sicavs, from the market of the winemaker. In the third place, also the realization of these 1,000_millions per year destined for housing supplies. The parliamentary group of the commons, therefore, had..., right? They said there was a discussion to see if the agreement with Esquerra that had made the CUP was 1,000_millions a year, in change, what Junts said for Cat was not clear if that was within the four-year term. We believe that with the reason we present here today, it is clear that the 1,000_million are annual and are not to be done in a four-year period. All this, these 1,000_millions, to all the foundations that must come to us from the Next Generation. These don't count, these go to the band. Another important thing to highlight from the young man is that we have to make a study on the exhaustive identification of all the floors that are in the hands of Sareb, in the hands of financial entities, of its subsidiaries, of funds of reversal, of funds of title of assets. All this we need to map out in order to have a concrete map of what is happening in our country. And we'll only know that through a study. And we won't just stay with the study, but then we'll implement the results of this study. We'll make a recovery plan for all these immobiles. These immobiles we have to stretch out to the public park. Why? , because we understand that this is the guarantee to punch the bottle of the loggers and punch the bottle that makes it so cost-effective to be able to hold right to a footrest. We'll set up a committee to study in the Catalan Parliament where all these immobiles are mapped. And, ultimately, what we're going to do too, and we've given it because it's immediate, right? From day to day he demanded that we do so... so make a very firm and very concrete compromise, in which the law of surrender content is a measure that has helped to lower the logue and establish a firm compromise of this Parliament in maintaining this regulation and doing away with all those plans that are intended to break this law from our legal order. Therefore, this is the housing youth we are voting for today on behalf of this chamber and we hope it will be approved, because for us it is a way of working to ensure access to housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.158.0	Thank you very much. Now, to defend the papers presented, has the word on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia the deputy Gloria Freixa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.159.0	Well, thank you, President. Members... Today we thank this young man who presents us with the CUP on habitating, because I believe that everyone, we are all aware that satisfying the right of habitating is, to be sure, one of the outstanding assignments, which have not yet been properly resolved. Especially, I'd like to say it and reschedule it, for lack of funding. Here we have to face a twofold problem: the difficulty of many citizens to access a suitable habitat and the complication of staying in the usual flat before the economic adversities that are being painted. We will support this young man, because it is already covered by our government agreement, which, as the Member of the CUP said, was unclear whether or not we were there, but the government agreement published says: "We will fight to give protection to the difficulties of families who cannot satisfy their mortgages or cannot cope with the payment of the rents of the lodger. And in particular, we will increase the housing requirement up to 1,000_millions, with the aim of reducing public spending on housing policy, to reach the European average. We have not turned the agenda to the responsibility of the administrations in the field of housing policies: we have repeatedly legislated because the administrations and the third sector have the right of storm and retreat; the tax of empty housing, only in Spain, has been boosted, and the index of reference price has been established in Catalonia. That's not enough, we know. But it wouldn't be just oblivious that it was this government that pushed the Housing Bill 17/2019, and also the loguer regulation content bill, which ensured that so many families didn't have to give up their homes. We appreciate that the young man is especially focused on the immobiles of the Sareb, because after the bank rescue, we think it's only fair that if the Administration isn't up there, they can also do this part, to finish this public habitation that we're not able to solve right now. But it is also true that we believe that legislation on private property must always be an exceptional case. And here we find ourselves, now and today, in a situation of extreme exceptionality. First of all, because the Catalans are following us, even though they are tired of feeling it, without having the funding that we deserve and that I should allow that today there is no catalan painted to have a decent home. I have been very well explained today by Mr Canadell, we must be able to manage our own resources, generated by the efforts of our citizens and our businesses in order to be able to do whatever you ask yourself, in this case, to invest in public housing. But most of the parties in this chamber are asking for and in Madrid they are calling. And now I like to keep them all here together, so I don't have to look at two bands when I'm headed. And it's not just infra-financing, which no one seems to want to solve, it's even harder: it's the failure of financing than it is, we already have compromises. Now I'm talking about the Pla Estado d'habitatge, which in Catalonia has spread a 50_per_cent in the past few years. A 50_per_cent. Summant vagina. Vagina summarizing what they leave us in order to be able to make public housing policies. We are and are, like Juntes, always on the side of the citizens who are passing it badly and firmly condemn the interference of the Spanish courts in the legislative capacity of this Parliament. Especially when we are still waiting for an answer to the needs of the citizens of Catalonia. Neither the Socialist Party, nor the commons; where is the law of housing that was to solve everything? Whatever we say, here they cry and there they keep quiet. So we call for the national housing pact to listen to all the actors and thus give a realistic response to the difficult situation that so many families deserve. It is a pact that allows us to unify legislation in the field of housing, which sets an order, which is effective, because the willingness of the whole and the dialogue will lead us, of course, to make a better country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.160.0	Thank you very much. I, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, have the word Mr Pau Morales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.161.0	Well; many thanks, very honorable president. Members and deputies, press companies, citizens, the company of the house that accompanies us... Housing is a basic right and, in fact, the republicans and republicans from this premise when we discuss housing policies: everyone has the right to have a rest in human conditions of dignity as a basis to be able to develop their lives. The current situation we are living in is dramatic. And this week, unfortunately, the events have reminded us more than ever, with some successes and one in particular, at the barri de Sants, which has extended to all of us. And it is, not just because of the housing emergency situation, that we are already living in our country today, but because at the time, unfortunately, we have a series of threats and conditions that, unfortunately, make us think that we can go worse in a very short time. To cite a few examples, starting with the sad fact that it makes us feel that it costs so much to make a supposed progressive government hear, not since it regulates the price of housing, but simply does not put the wheels to which they have decided to take steps forward, to the benefit of the great majority of the citizens of our country. Or the imminent fall of the moratorium, which, although we consider it insufficient and ineffective, has served to put up with some denunciation until the end of August 9, and which we believe should do the impossible to extend it. Or a youth emancipation rate that, according to the latest data, is in a very short history. That is why the compromise with courageous and renewed policies of housing, long-sightedness, are the foundation of the republic's commitment to citizenship. Also the investment agreements, which have allowed this legislature to begin. And that is why, in this case, we will also defend Parliament's full legislative capacity in the area of housing and civil rights. We believe that our responsibility is to use all the tools in our abyss and demand them all. That's why, too, because we keep all the tools warm so we can guarantee the right to housing, today we see one more time in this fight a more motif for our country's independence. We will vote in favour of the motion proposed for the CUP, which we have been able to negotiate, and which, in our opinion, draws clear political lines that we need to be able to materialize as quickly as possible: to move from the content of the emergence to a policy of public housing mobilization that never fails to be, in order to lay the foundations of this new housing model, to five thousand years; to agree on a legislative agenda in the matter of housing; to reach up to 1,000 million years with housing policies; to identify those immobile in the hands of the Sareb, in the hands of the returning funds, in the hands of the funded entities, and to establish the strategies necessary to recover them, in order to achieve this social return to the banking rescue of the previous crisis. Last but not least, and they also take the latest events, we have granted to position ourselves in a frontal reboiling respect for the decision of the Spanish government to resort to the law of yield containment. It's the same way they don't hang it, it's the same, because they go through a good law while there's no parallel umbrella that at least gives coverage to the people of this country. But they don't go on, they don't go on, they don't go on, they don't go on, they don't go on, they don't go on, they don't go on, they don't And we believe that competitive debates cannot be used to undermine rights. And we see ourselves in the obligation, therefore, from here to raise a double listen, the social shield and the competition shield. Defending the powers of this Parliament is also defending the rights of our citizens, and vice versa, we defend the rights of our citizens, who deserve all the sovereignty of a parliament that is at their service. Habitating is a right, a basic and fundamental right. And even though some people only want to see a good market, housing is a right, and the rights are defended until the end, even more so when the people most need them, when we go as far as we go, as our president Oriol Junqueras says. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.162.0	Then, to fix her position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Congresswoman Eva Candela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.163.0	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Too late for everyone. I take a few weeks in this room, I learn every day how all parliamentary activity works, and I hope that with everyone's help, I will soon be on my way. I must confess, therefore, that there is one thing that has surprised me very much and that I am concerned and that you are quite capricious, and that I hope that today we will be able to remove the entanglement; if not among all those who are sure that you will help me to hear it. I have examined in detail the agreements to arrive at the investiture of the honourable world, Mr Aragonès, Esquerra agreements with the CUP and Esquerra agreements with Juntes, and, concretely, more carefully the agreements relating to the issue we are dealing with today, housing policies. Arrange with the CUP an annual budget of 1,000_millions annually and together, textually, "increase the housing budget up to 1,000_millions with the aim of reducing public spending on housing policy up to the European average. Not concrete in how long. In the questions of June 3rd, the companies of En Comú We can show this, say, discrepancy between the two agreements, just as he did in his question to the Government the company of the Socialist Group. Interestingly, the Member of the CUP did not appoint this agreement in her intervention or in her reply in the plenary at the fifteen-day inquiry, after the Councillor Puigneró expressed that, in his agreement, Junts have been very clear: "We want to gradually increase the housing assumptions up to 1,000_millions during this parliamentary term. The difference between the two agreements is very great, abysmal. The truth, I was surprised that the CUP, at that time, did not pose on the table this question with force, nor in any explanations, punctualizations, reasonings, force that use many times in their expositions. I don't know, the reason I guess we're just gonna clear it up today. Now, in the motion presented, it does form it, in the third agreement. It looks like they're coming to an agreement and it's going to be 1,000_million annually – we're moving forward on this issue. But these 1,000_million, according to the agreed agreement, will not be so alone to increase the public park, add up to it and strengthen the abst of other housing programs. It will be necessary to see, therefore, with detail, how this quantity is broken down, because to increase in five thousand annual habitats the public park of habitats, as the first agreement says, is already a significant amount of money to invest there. Well, in any case, we'll have to wait to see how it all reflects on the assumptions, it seems to be 2022, and the CUP companies sure will be very attentive. We offer to follow you with this attention. To our parliamentary group, we think that we need to allocate resources to strong housing policies, and we will support this agreement. And read you, therefore, statements made by Minister Ábalos, with all the investments that have been related in the past time to the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona to make protected habitat, and to different cities. We also agree on debt planning studies and analysis – information is essential for decision-making. We will see after what commitments it is possible to acquire the government to carry them to term, because this is what it is about, to carry it to term, and not just to talk. If we do not agree in absolute terms, it is to make a legislative agenda that we already assume will have to take account of declarations of unconstitutionality. Working to make proposals that have recourse and legal certainty, the rest is to give false expectations to the citizenry and then to pass the blame on to the others. Look, at my house this is supposed to make populism and victimism. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.164.0	Thank you very much. And then, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Andrés Bello has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.165.0	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. As is well known, the housing situation in Catalonia is characterized by a shortage of supply and high prices that prevent access to this right to more and more citizens. The various separatist governments that, with different colors, have continuously ruled Catalonia over the past forty years are responsible for this situation. Its priority has been to develop its ideological rupturist agenda instead of guaranteeing Catalans access to basic rights such as housing. Although all Catalans have been victims of these separatist policies, particularly those with less favourable economic and social conditions have been harmed. Not so, the separatist leaders, who have their lives solved thanks to the enormous agency of placement that has been the Generalitat of Catalonia. The lack of private investment in housing motivated by legal insecurity and public interventionism in the sector, as well as the lack of resources in the budgets of the Generalitat, have led us to this situation. The long waiting lists of Catalans who aspire to be able to exercise their right to housing continue to grow. The public housing stock is well below the European average. I can't help but mention Second, who committed suicide last Monday in front of his eviction. From the VOX Parliamentary Group we send our deepest condolences to your close friends. [[Some applause.]] Second, fifty-eight years old, he lived in the neighborhood of Sants and had been out of work for three years. With the help of Caritas Diocesan of Barcelona, he had tried to return to the labor market. Of Caritas, gentlemen; of no body of the Generalitat nor of the apparatus of organizations of the CUP. You have shifted the pressure on the owners when it is the duty of the Administration to give a decent solution to all citizens, and especially to those most vulnerable and in need, as was Second. Gentlemen of the UPC, stop claiming to be a social party while supporting a government that allows this situation. And given this worrying reality, we come to this motion of the UPC, which, if approved, would further aggravate the situation in the housing sector. They propose to deepen the legal uncertainty of the sector, disobeying the judgments of the courts. They propose to continue their attacks on private property by drawing up a plan of expropriation of housing, thus importing Catalonia the worst of communist dictatorships. Faced with the ruin it would entail in these liberticidal and bankruptcy measures of the rule of law, since VOX we believe that the solution to the housing problem in Catalonia must go in a radically different direction. VOX represents the rights and interests of all Spaniards, and just as we defend respect for private property, we also defend the constitutional right to decent housing. The Government of the Generalitat must abolish political spending in the service of secessionism: Catalan embassies, dozens of chiringuitos or TV3 and devote what really matters to citizens, such as education, health, security or, in this case, housing. The Government of the Generalitat is obliged to lead with these public resources the construction of social housing for the most disadvantaged groups. In the toughest moments it is when solidarity with our compatriots who are having it worse must be greater. VOX is going to be the containment dam in front of its liberticidal policies. The solution to the serious problem of access to housing will not come from the policies of occupation and expropriation that you irresponsibly preach, but by ending the waste of your rupturist agenda and devoting to it all the public resources that are needed. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.166.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.167.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Thanks also for bringing down, or well, raising, more quickly, the temperature of the hemicicle, which some of us were already having a little cold from this morning. We announced that we would vote in favour of this motion. We coincide in the majority of points that are planted. We also have to say that we liked the original young man better, I mean, we don't fool anyone if we say that the same that the governing groups have passed, so we haven't just convinced ourselves. We also have to say that we have found ourselves missing some aspects that seem to us very powerful and that at the time we have valued as interesting between the government agreement between Esquerra and the CUP, but that do not appear, for example, the fact that we did not send Brimo and the Arro to the appointments, but well, we have put it to our young man, and therefore there will be the opportunity for this Parliament to vote, in concrete terms, on this point of agreement between these two parties, which was one of the points made possible by the investiture of President Aragonès. And yes, it has been mentioned before, the Socialist Group's company has also commented on it, and I commented on it at the inquiry, and we've been talking to the CUP's company before entering the plenary, and that's the theme of this 1,000_million xifra, isn't it? , whether what you say the CUP deal with Esquerra and what you say the Juntes deal with Cat with Esquerra is the same. We consider it not the same, and it is that..., I mean that the textual quote and agreement with you, with the CUP, says: « devoting 1,000_millions per year to housing policies, which would even be little compared to the 2,400s to what the CTESC that is to arrive at, well, it would be a great leap if we count that we come from 370_millions spent for the Catalonian Government on annual housing policies. Clearly, we understand – and speaking to the companies of the CUP also understand – that it means that the assumptions of 2022 will have different parties, that the sum of which will be 1,000_million destined for housing policies, follow the Incasòl, follow now to Social Rights, that it will be the housing policies of the Government of Catalonia. Therefore, we understand that it is these 1,000_millions, that it should be 1,000_millions, minimum, 2022, 1,000_millions, 2023, 1,000_millions, 2024. So, finish the legislature with 3,000_million spent on housing policies. It would be that. What Junts' agreement says is not that. What the Junts agreement says, textual, is: « reach 1,000_million, not to say when. We understand that a parliamentary agreement is beginning, so we are still generous, to reach 1,000_million when this parliamentary term is over, that it should be four years if the legislatures have a normal duration, which lately seems not to be so. But well, we understand these four years that is for which an investment agreement is signed, and in this case a government agreement, not just an investment agreement. Clearly, it's not the same as you're going to target this 2022, 400; in 2023, 450, and then, at 2024, you're going to target 1,000_million. The sum does not donate the same, does not donate 3,000_million euros. Therefore, there is a significant difference of thousands of millions of euros here. And that's what we would like to clarify, because, finally, as the motion stands, it seems to us to fit more into what you say the agreement with Together than what you say the agreement with the UPC, because it goes back to saying: « reach up to a thousand_millions annually, but don't say when, and when is very important in this case, because they are, we insist, thousands of millions that are at stake. But, well, we, too, will vote for it, because, we insist, it's a million, it's that with these thousands of millions you can do a lot of things. It is possible to build official logger protection habitats, it is possible to buy more logger and retraction, it is possible to do more rehabilitation with conditions not to increase the price of logger, for example, in case there is aid to rehabilitation, as is already being done in some cases in Barcelona, or to increase the technical resources and human resources to be able to deploy all these laws, of which the Generalitat de Catalunya has been endowed, and that they are not deployed with all their capacity, such as 24/2015, that neither the sanctioning capacity nor the expropriating capacity is deployed in cases of empty floors. Therefore, we have legislative instruments, but we do not make them serve properly. We can do more; we will also vote in favour of a new legislative agenda, but first of all, I want to remind you of one thing, the law of surrender content is an initiative of the Llogateres Union presented for four parliamentary groups, not the Government, and that is also important to say. It's not a government initiative. [[Widow's remorse.]] And Law 17/2019 worked with social organizations and movements, and it would not have been possible and would not have the support it had had in this Parliament, if it had not been for social movements. So we don't have medals that don't touch us. And above all, we try, from the government, to remember that they have skills in housing, that they have many, and that they can deploy them, and that they can allocate the necessary resources to them. And it is that before asking for more..., and I know that the State for many remains short, but it is that the State says – it has prepared and will not give me time to read it – all the skills in housing that the Government of Catalonia has, all that it has and does not perform: planning, ordering, management, inspection and control of housing according to social needs and territorial balance; setting priorities and objectives of the activity of promoting public administration in the area of housing and adopting the necessary measures to meet them, both in relation to the public sector and the private sector; public housing promotion – left behind –; the administrative regulation of trade and protection measures. And I could go on. So maybe we start running what we can do and we already have the skills, and then we move on to increase what we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.168.0	Then, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the word Joan Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.169.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, listening to this debate today, I think it is more than obvious that there was no willingness to develop public housing policies on the part of the heads of the last governments, possibly if we move on to the last two years. And that also coincides with what we talked about this morning about the willingness to make assumptions in time, because we are very conditioned on the realities, and the willingness, including extending them, right? Now we're talking about a whole series of resources we need. So that's it: there hasn't been a willingness to come up with housing policies in the last few years, and I think that including government groups could give us the reason for this. Then we can talk, invent that the enemy of the habitation was more than beyond the lands of the Ebre, or more than anywhere else, with the reason that it is common, but it is clear that there is a first part of a lack of ability to do these policies. The commitment set out in Law 18/2007 to reach 15_percent of public housing in Catalonia has not been completed; we are over 2, and practically remain only six of the twenty years that we promised ourselves or were considered to pose as a tape to reach these abilities. And it's that we're also under the middle of Spain and under other communities in public housing investment. And that's right, let's cap the number of charges to all of Spain. So, we have a hard problem, and I think we've seen it before, and we've seen it from all the groups right now, and today we'll see it in this young man and then. From Ciutadans we claim a public housing planning policy. That's why we insisted on different legislatures, and here's a lot of these 1,000_million. I remember my company, Sergio Sanz, in 2016, talking about the 1,000_millions, and including, therefore, they saw that the government team, then Junts per el Si, at that time, did not make him any kind of case. Now he brings it to his government program; welcome be it, but these 1,000_millions that should have been approved in 2016 and that should have been presupposed by now, were not 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, and this year, as there are no presuppositions – because it has already been said this morning that there will be no presuppositions–, neither will they be. So we've lost a few years and a few million inversions. Therefore, and here we clearly disagree with what the CUP motion says, we believe that we need a public investment in construction of new work to logue. And that wasn't very clear to me, because the part, say, expository, not to the resolutive part, they talk, and here it's just..., that housing policy can't be based on construction, because it generates gases of winter effect and destroys the territory. Therefore, it is not clear to me whether these 1,000_millions are for making new promotions or not if for other types of policies, I would like very much to explain ourselves, because we have not just made it very clear. We believe it is important to introduce new housing, new promotions to the market, because this, obviously, which can a little, therefore, hear how the market works, will imply a reduction in prices and, obviously, also of the offer-demand relationship a better of access to the habitability of many Catalans. Therefore, we are supporters who can use these 1,000_millions. In fact, we will vote in favour of this point in the House. I am partisans who do, therefore, with the new work the public work of logor. Actually, it's not the only measure right now that we could expose to work. We also need to talk about the tenants and tenants as well, the two figures, the one who puts his piss on the market, as an incentive to put it on the market. I think we can also talk about this to the man we're after. We do not believe in the policy that is also defending the CUP in this case, which is very close to this policy of certain confiscation. We pretend or want to talk about promotion of incentives, bonuses, for example, on the IRPF's autonomic tram for the one who puts his piss on the logger, and other types of formulas to help as much as you rent as you want to have access to housing. We have already said, we will vote..., we will support this point, these famous 1,000_millions, because we have always defended it, it is our proposal, it is a proposal from Ciutadans, and the rest, so obviously for many reasons we will vote not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.170.0	Thank you. And then, on behalf of the Mixed Group, Mrs Eva Parera will speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.171.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone. I suppose he won't surprise the CUP company if I tell them I don't share much of his proposal. Still, we will vote for something in favour of it, which is not all a negative vote. Yes, there is a phrase that left me very puzzled when I read the motion, you say textually: "The housing policy cannot be based on construction. I have to admit, I was killed. I said, then, they'll explain to me how we live if we don't build. They say: "It has to be based on rehabilitation. Of course, we have to rehabilitate many ‘lives'; more than 70_percent of ‘lives' do not have them well rehabilitated and are to be rehabilitated. But not only with rehabilitation; we have to do..., it must also be based on construction. It is the best way to lower the price: more demand for the offer; more supply for the demand. It's the only way, it's the way you don't have to go in to regulate a market and make the market the rules of the sun. But that marks a clear ideology. If you say to us: "The housing policy is not based on construction, it seems that it defends that it is based on illegal occupation. So no, housing policy is not based on illegal occupation. You in many of your statements and in many of your statements and policies that claim to defend a right that is the right to housing that violates another right that is the right to private property. And all two rights are collected from the Constitution and it has as much value as one right as the other. But you seem like this second is right. I believe that the obligation we have from public powers is to send a very clear message: it is zero tolerance with illegal occupations and active policies to support people in need of housing. And these active policies are the obligation of the Administration, they are not the obligation of the private. And here there's a leave of office on the part of the public administrations, that what they do is derive responsibility from the private as if it were a crime to be proprietary. It's not a crime to own property. And the Administration doesn't have to tell a landlord what to do with his property. And all of this is boiled down to a super-populist speech of the voltorous foundations, which are the least of the smallest of the owners of the properties in Catalonia and of the habitats in Catalonia. And if you have to fight back, it's clear that you can't criminalise the entire private sector; you can't criminalise promoters; you can't criminalise builders; and, above all, you can't make active policies without participation, complicity and the consent of those who make lives – of builders and promoters. And this complicity can't be achieved by mitigating the imposition, stigmatization, criminalization and speech against them; it can be achieved with the dialog, it can be achieved with policies that encourage them to build housing, which is intended to inhabit social life. Where's the self-criticism here? Where's the self-criticism of what's in the cells of the housing emergency? Because there's a lot of time left. Where are the criticisms of the mafias that exploit the poor people who are in this housing emergency? Where are the actions against this? Where are the actions against the mafias who occupy lives to exploit desperate people who need a rest to live? Where are they? They're not, not a single word. And they take anti-denomination policy, and they confound it all: they confound people with real economic problems with illegal or mafia occupations. And from all this they make a superpopulist mix, which sure gives a lot of votes, but that without rigor it will not solve the problem of housing in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.172.0	And now, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mrs Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.173.0	Yeah, see, I've got a lot of time and I have to answer a lot of things. I'll be quick. In relation to the commons, it's not all, obviously, it's not all, it's not all, it's not all, it's not all, it's not all, it's not all, it's not all, it's not all, it's not all, it's not all, it's not all, it's not all. It is not a concern that we will talk about housing in many plenary sessions, make many inquiries and many more motions. For what he does to the recommendation that he read Minister Ábalos. I read one thing from Minister Ábalos, which is that housing is a good market, and I don't think I'm reading more from Minister Ábalos, because, obviously, it's in the antipodes of what my parliamentary group thinks. [[Some applause.]] On the other hand, we don't think we're doing any self-criticism about housing policies either. You know, I'd just miss it about self-criticism. The system has not done well and it is not the fault of those who are most disadvantaged. What he is also saying is not to the legislative agenda itself, which is legal certainty. See, it's with legal certainty– forgive me, huh? – It's not tea guarantees a subway. I mean, I think it's time to start prioritizing things. And when they talk about populism– which, well, I have already found absolutely out of place–, what seems to me to be absolutely populist is to present to the Constitutional Court last week the law of surrender containment, and in a few minutes we will vote on a motion that they have agreed with the common people who say they will allocate economic resources to the law that you brought to the Constitution last week. But can anyone talk to me about populism? Do you present constitutional remedies and come here to the House of this Parliament to say that it is intended for this law for which you have filed the constitutional remedy? That's populism, isn't it? For what he does to the waste and the waste, I don't know if he comes into the concept of ‘Sareb and its board of directors and all the more that these lords are sharing and that end up generating a public debt of EUR 34,000_million for the bad management. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I believe that this is certainly part of your concept of ‘xiringuite'. And I'm staying... there it is. Okay. [[Rialles.]] Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.174.0	And then we proceed to the vote... [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Roldan?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.175.0	Yes, President; to ask for a separate vote on point 1 and point 3, these could go together, and also letter c of number 5. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.176.0	He told me point 1, point 3 and letter c of point 5. [[Pause and voice of the background.]] Perfect, it was a deal, I'm sorry, I didn't get into the text. Any more directions? [[Pause.]] Yes, ma'am Romero?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.177.0	Vote separate from point 2.b and c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.178.0	Two b i c. Is there another separate motion for a vote? Don't you? [[Pause.]] Miss Romero, we don't have... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Because here we have point 2, with a message accepted from Juntes for Catalonia and Esquerra, but we don't come out with subparts.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.179.0	What we've been through, then there's a deal that you've put in a, b, c. The b and c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.180.0	Okay. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The b and c. [[Widow's remorse.]] But it's point four, huh? [[Seeing the background and pause.]] Okay, we've already made it clear... because we all know exactly what we're voting for. We shall vote in the first place, together, as requested by the Joint Group, points 1 and 3. Okay? [[Pause.]] Let's start the vote... a moment. The vote begins. Points 1 and 3 were approved by 120 votes to 11. Then we'll vote on point 5.b. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, 5.b. The Socialist Group asked for it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I've been asked for 5b and 5c. Okay? [[Pause.]] That's what we're voting for right now. And then we'll vote on the rest of the points together. Let's go back to voting point 5.b. The vote begins. Point 5.b_is approved, with 78 votes in favour and 53 votes against. Now we're going to do point 5.c. The vote begins. Point 5.c was also approved, with 78 votes in favour, 50 votes against and 3 abstentions. And now we're voting for the rest of the points of the vote. The vote begins. It was adopted by 110 votes to 20, with 1 vote not counted. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into policies to guarantee the right to housing]] [[302-00007/13]] So let's move on to the twenty-first point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on policies to guarantee housing, which the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos has presented. To expose it, Congresswoman Susanna Segóvia has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.181.0	Okay. Thank you so much again, President. Again, deputies, deputies... today we have an intense day. During the inquiry, we asked the Councillor Puignero, at that time, that he was the one who answered the inquiry, where they would go to stop the housing policies, and at that time he could not answer it, he did so after the UPC inquiry. Now we know that housing policies, therefore, go to the Afers Socials consultancy, which will now be responsible for guaranteeing policies to guarantee the right to housing in Catalonia. But, for all we know, Incasòl is still in Territori, we understand; of course, the Incasòl, which is the main regulator of all policies in the fields of soil, urban planning, well, and execution, and also the responsible for the construction of official protection housing, public housing construction of the Government of Catalonia. You will understand, counsel, that we are beginning this legislature a little bit of a surprise and a little bit of a surprise if we do not just hear how this coordination between your advice and the advice of Territori will work; we do not just hear whether this will really be an impulse of public housing promotion policies in Catalonia or whether we will end up going through these things that matter to you, who has the money to do what, who does the resources, why. We have no hope, it seems to us that this division of housing policies is not good news. We believe that this will not help to increase..., because of the historical shortage of public housing we have in Catalonia, that we remember that it is at the 1.5_percent of the total housing stock, very far – very far – from the 15_per_cent, that it is the European media and that it is also more fixed law for the right to housing. So let's hope that he actually gets to work, and he gets to work fast, because there's a lot of work to do. And we've already said more than once, and it's an example that's in the press and that's all that's happening, and it's that right now, so the Barcelona Assembly is building 2,300 floors in Barcelona and the Incasól only thirty-six, and that all of Catalonia has Incasól in the market now 1,700. Therefore, very far from being this public real estate, this construction agent and the promotion of public housing that should be the Incasòl. In fact, the CTESC asks to arrive at a rate of 25,000 units per year in order to be able to satisfy the 15_percent of the main habitats destined for social policies in terms of twenty years, 25,000. We're not far, we're not far. And we insist that it doesn't all have to be built, we agree, with this. There are many ways to recover and strengthen the public housing park, but building and promoting public housing is fundamental. We have already said to the question that there are many things that can be done from the Generality in order to face the housing emergency and to avoid the wisdom of denunciations that there are of all people who cannot assume and cannot fulfill a habitation worthy and of quality, in order to send Brimo and ARROs. That's just one of the things we ask them not to do. And it's one of the things that we put into this agreement because it was also gathered into an agreement that was signed in front of the investiture and that we think it's necessary that it's black on white and that it's votes. I can't send Brimo to the people who's holding up money. I can't send Brimo to the denonations. And that's one thing we demand that this Parliament is a position, because what it wants – and that's what we ask – is that the Generality has a mediation unit, a Catalan anti-denomination unit, that it intervenes in housing emergencies before it gets to the situation of sending Brimo to the disclaimer, that it accompanies the families, that it is with the victim. Before the Second, which actually killed when a denunciation came, when they came to make it out of their house, because there was a judge who did not want to attend the report of vulnerability of the social services and who refused to apply the law that now prevents this type of denunciation. This person must have a follow-up, too; people like the Second must have a follow-up, they must have the presence of the Government of Catalonia before they arrive at this situation. And they can't leave it all, as a fan always, in the hands of the gatherings. What is the attitude and what is politics, what is the presence of the Government of Catalonia when there is a denunciation. There are many points in this young man. What we want is that the National Pact for the Right to Housing is reactivated once and for all, that it is something that we have asked many times in the past parliamentary term and that has not been put into practice. We ask that the sectoral territorial plan of the habitat be adopted once, that we understand... well, we don't know if this is going to follow to Territori now, if you are going to take care of it now. We understand that he would follow Territori, even though he is the main planning tool for housing policies, but that he is through a long time ago and what they have done with a theme is to extend the term even further. We accept the message because once and for all it's approved. Above all, we must insist on the need to increase the public housing stock and allocate resources to it. We have also insisted and tried to reach an agreement with the government, and it has not been possible, in the need for legislative changes that allow to reverse disputes in high-voltage areas in the housing market. This was not possible because you made statements that you gave it was "not to change the law. You, who are so gifted to take legislative initiative and to be disobedient and courageous, do not understand why you cannot change your own rule to ensure that touristic habitats become residential habitats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.182.0	Thank you, Mrs. Segovia. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word Ms. Eva Candela, on behalf of the Socialists and Units Group to Advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.183.0	Thank you very much, President. The Socialists and Units Group to Advance we have presented six papers to the motion of the Parliamentary Group of Common We can. There are some considerations that the only one they wanted was to need some of the questions raised and, in any case, to unfold some agreements. Anyway, we've reached some compromise. Thank you very much, Susanna. In concrete terms, the first point of the first agreement was to list the different actors we think should be in the space of debate and dialogue in the definition of a national pact for housing– local administrations, social agents, economic agents, trade unions... –, because the conception of a national pact is this, the collective response, the collective strategy where all participants analyze, debate and reach agreements to define the objectives. Already, as the Comú Pueblo company has commented, the establishment of a new national plan for housing has been encouraged at other times, and we have been far removed from the list that was named for the very honorable president there has been no such pact. Well, it looks like it's coming out okay. And we do not understand, so, as the Councillor stated in an oral question..., as to the reference not to have in this list the national pact for housing, the Councillor Puigneró answered: "We are the facts and not the words. But let me put it in doubt. Made, for example, as the sectoral territorial plan of habitation, which is also spoken of in the accord of this motion, a territorial plan that is suspended in the initial approval of the year 2019 and of which we have no more news; a territorial plan also of vital importance, because it has to serve as a guiding mark of the policies of habitation throughout the territory of Catalonia, as defined by the law for the right to habitat; a sectoral plan that if triga gaire – and it seems that it will trigare a little more – will now be born obsolete, because the data are outdated, data on demography, on vulnerable collections, on the state of the built park, on the available habitats, on the available soil and on a wide etc., but that the data will be outdated, data on demography, on vulnerable collections, on the state of the park, on the available habitats, on the available soil and on the other side, but also on the other side, as well as others. Well, the text negotiated for the government with En Comú's companies can place approval in its initial phase during the year 2021. We have a doubt as to whether he was already in place, for what reason they can't approve him before three months, and maybe he has to see with the change that we're talking about counseling. And there's also the doubt of where the Incasolo will be, because it's the executing arm of all these policies. And back to the facts and not the words, which the Councillor Puignero gave us, facts like the resources that have been devoted to totally inadequate housing policies, but now they say they are, that they are in the signed agreements. Well, this government isn't new, they're already taking a few years to the table; let's see what kind of presupposition proposal they're making. And in fact, many of them are missing, but here there are more words that the councilman should look at as he says, and that is when the municipal world is put in the mouth and asks that the assemblies have an implication. To see, Counselor, today that there is no Counsellor Puignero, the assemblies have all the involvement, they are near the dog day after day, trying to put solutions with the tools that they have, reinventing themselves every day, supplanting the inaction that they have during the last years the Generality. Since our parliamentary group, we would appreciate it if we had a full respect for the day-to-day task of gatherings. And an important issue is the premise that will be used for housing in the next few years. And I just haven't made it clear what the government's intention is, we've already talked about it before with the two pacts, and, well, it looks like we're making it clear that it's 1,000_million annually. Be careful. As for the agreement to recover Decree 17/2019, our parliamentary group has already committed itself to working and submitting documents to the text. Now the law is presented as a bill of law, and we will work to make it sticky. And we will not support the agreement regarding Law 11/2020, because you can put all the rejections to the positions you want, but the reality is that it is and it is coughing, and you already know that you do not have the skills to approve it from the advice of the Board of State Guarantees, and all that gives is legal insecurity and disconcerting to the citizenry. But, even if they know, they pull it out and they can blame the Spanish government for all its evils. And, look, the truth is, it seems to me that they're trapped, and trapped in a loop. And just a sentence, even though I can't finish what I had prepared. Mrs. Vinyets, read, because reading is good, and we are informed of all things.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.184.0	Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Cristina Casol has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.185.0	Thank you, President. It will advise, Members, Members, for the right of decent and quality housing, that it is necessary to promote very broad planning and social debate spaces, such as the national pact for the right to housing and the territorial sectoral housing plan of Catalonia, with the will to arrive at the end of this 2021 to ratify the initial approval, with a very clear and unique objective, that it is to mobilize the entire reserve soil for new protected housing promotions, making a call above all to the joints that have this type of housing for construction, for the realization of new habitats. And we continue with the gatherings, to which we also participate in three key aspects on this front. Introduce its sanctioning capacity in two ways: the first, follow the path of law 24 and make it responsible for the great tenors, and therefore sanction the failure of the cases in which there is no compulsory social logger, and also for the assemblies included in the tense area so that they consider exercising their sanctioning capacity comply with open expedients on possible violations of the norm in leases. We also ask you for your cooperation in the form of a plan of action together with the Generality because we want to get the necessary habitats to eliminate the long waits of the months of emergencies of Catalonia and put them with the programs like Reallotgem or with the 60/40 program. We're also working on a review of launch protocols and police devices. We propose to the Government that it review the procedures for implementing the launch procedures in order to have much more time to mediate or to find a housing alternative. Communication of the vulnerable situation of the defendants must take place at the time of initiation or admission to the petition, and not at the time of the launch, so that mediation with ownership can be initiated as soon as possible. And in case it doesn't work, it's got a lot more time to find a habitation for people. For what it does to police devices of denunciations, the protection of the right to housing is a priority for this government, and as it is also protecting people. For this reason, we also participate in the revision of police protocols with the aim of reducing conflict and tension, while maintaining public order, and avoiding as much intimidation or force as possible before..., and especially before the most vulnerable people. I, finally, three petitions to the Government because you do to the Government of Spain. As the Spanish Government, "the most progressive in history, has extended the suspension of the denunciations of vulnerable people living in the properties of great contemporaries, since the situation of emergence caused by the covid is perlonga much more beyond the state of alarm. Many more resources are also being used to respond to this chronic residential emergence, many more resources are being used; that is why the state housing plan has not been detailed. And also to note that its position in the form of appeals to the Constitutional Court is not worthy, because its position and its nullity towards the most vulnerable only produces patience and despair. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.186.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, Mr Andrés Bello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.187.0	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already mentioned, the housing situation in Catalonia is characterized by a shortage of supply and high prices which make it impossible for more and more citizens to have access to this right. The various separatist governments that have ruled Catalonia continuously over the past forty years are guilty of this situation. They have also helped to aggravate this problem the interventionist measures of the Barcelona City Government, of the same party that presents this motion, and, of course, the current Government of Spain, of which its party is part, turned into propaganda and unable to take serious measures to improve the standard of living of the Spaniards. The lack of private investment in housing, driven by legal insecurity and public interventionism in the sector, as well as the low level of public budgets, have led us to this situation. The long waiting lists of Catalans aspiring to be able to exercise their right to housing continue to grow; the public housing stock is well below the European average. I mention again Second, neighbor of the neighborhood of Sants who committed suicide when he was to be evicted for non-payment. Serve in these words to send our affection again to your close ones. He had been unemployed for three years and could not pay the rent, and the flat is of a retired person who had rented it as a supplement to his pension. No administration detected Second's precarious situation or offered him an alternative. Governments are obliged to respond to this social drama by providing the most needy with decent public housing, and not to shift pressure, responsibility and guilt to the owners by attacking their source of livelihood. Today, the Group of the European People's Party is presenting a motion with measures that go in the opposite direction to what the sector needs. They propose to approve an agreed housing plan, but in which they have forgotten to include an important part of the sector: precisely those who create wealth. Those work tables must be the ones that build the houses. They want to transfer citizens and businesses obligations that correspond to public administrations, such as the provision of housing to the most vulnerable. They persist with their limitations on the freedom of pacts through the fixing of income by the Administration, a measure which has already failed in other countries causing the opposite effect to the intended one. The implementation of these measures would mean continuing in the process of worsening the housing market, so from VOX we believe that the solution must go in a radically different sense: we must give confidence and legal certainty to the market – yes, market – of housing in order to allow private investors to invest with guarantees in this market and create wealth. I mean, everything you want to dynamite, like good communists you are. The Government of the Generalitat must also lead, with public resources, the construction of social housing for the most disadvantaged groups. In the toughest moments it is when solidarity with our compatriots who are having it worse must be greater. VOX defends respect for private property and the constitutional right to decent housing. We want young people to be able to emancipate themselves, families to have a home to prosper in, and those most in need to have decent housing. Faced with the traditional political forces that ignore the social emergencies of the citizens and the totalitarian projects of the radical left, in VOX we will be guaranteeing the defense of the rights and freedoms of all Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.188.0	He then has the word, to defend the papers presented, the deputy of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left Pau Morales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.189.0	Okay. Thank you very much, Your Honor. I will now enter the content of the motion, but let me take advantage of it – and the fact that there are two motions followed on housing gives these occasions – to answer one of the Members, therefore, who has spoken before. You were talking, weren't you? , the Member of the PSC of Legal Insecurity. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you would like to know what the Commission is doing, whether it is going to do or not to do or not to do. Therefore, escort'm, legal insecurity..., here what we have to do, the best way to guarantee legal security is rights for everyone, rights for citizens, that the right to housing is guaranteed. And that's what we're trying to do from this Parliament. Well, on the motion, comment that obviously, therefore, it would be very difficult not to agree with much of the content of this motion, which we share. Actually, we've been seeing each other, haven't we? , as with the law of surrender, with the law of urgent measures that has been submitted a few days ago to the register, also now with the motion that we have voted before, as there is a majority in this Parliament which is very extensive in favour of the right of housing and which wants to go further with policies in favour of the right of housing. And, therefore, we believe, therefore, that it would be a very good opportunity, oysters! Let's get out a little bit of the barrier and get down a little bit of work on rape rape in these questions. Let us celebrate, therefore, that we have been able to deal with some questions. Unfortunately, this time we couldn't agree on everything. And here we would like to say and we would like to remind you that you, Lords of Comú Possão, are not here to defend the government and the PSOE from criticism, but rather that what we hope – and sadly you have deleted a phrase from a threat proposal that, in turn, we have been able to vote on in the CUP motion – is that they are working to do these social policies and to defend, therefore, these Catalan initiatives. And, for example, at the point of avoiding the outbursts of denunciations in which we agree with the objective, it must be borne in mind that one of the limitations we have is that it is the modification of the civil injunction law, which we have proposed to the Congress, which unfortunately, therefore, has not prospered. And, therefore, what we have left is to offer the government's commitment to obviously continue finding ways out, creating alternatives, changing protocols. And it's all a job, so we're gonna have to go. Just as we have also known hard that at point 8 we have not been able to deal when we asked: "Listen to me, the Generality and the gatherings. And let's all put ourselves - there, to offer, to end these months of emergence and to offer in the terms of this year the habitat for everyone. We do not want to situate ourselves knowing that we cannot, that we will not have enough tools to resolve only with the Generality. And, listen, I'm sure all the gatherings will be more than willing to help. And I'd love to, too, end up with an intervention that came out earlier. Indeed, we want to focus Catalan politics on those decisive elements for people's lives, and to keep them all warm. And then it's obvious that he falls short of the State. The news would be that you don't get short. And so, how convinced we are that it is, so I'm sure we can go find this shared path. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.190.0	Thank you very much. He then has the word to fix his position the deputy Montserrat Vinyets, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Candidate for Popular Unity – A New Cycle to Win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.191.0	President... Members and Members, in relation to the motion of the commons, this parliamentary group will vote in favour of the motion, except in point 4a, which we will vote against, and 9a, which we will abstain; for the rest of the points we will vote in favour, if there are things that give rise to contradictions, we will make a global cap and our vote will be affirmed. We agree to set aside the national pact for housing, the sectoral territorial plan for housing; to work to recover the Decree 17/2019– in fact, a few days ago we registered this new legal text that has to replace it –; to also provide economic resources for this Law 24/2015, which, as the deputy of the commons has reminded us, sees social movements, to whom we give thanks for their work and we replace to continue working to guarantee rights, because it is the guarantee that the rights are sufficient in their fullest form; to increase with the 1,000_millions, which has already become quite clear that they are 1,000_millions annually. And, well, therefore, for all this, we vote in favour. We understand that we need to take a step further – and we see that you are also coming back, right? , to understand that it is necessary to take a step further, by voting in favour of the previous motion, and to place them on this new legislative agenda which, between the disjunct between the pointing of the 78 rule, the pointing of conventional political parties such as the PSOE, the pointing of parties such as PP and all the rest, and of constitutional courts, you, between the pointing of 78 and the construction and guarantee of rights, is situated on our side and on the left of the siren songs of the Socialist Party. Because, for example, with the law of yield content, what they will do in this new housing law is take these references indexes of loggers as indexes to have knowledge about the state of the market that will not be binding. Therefore, the 78's rule is no guarantee of anything. And, therefore, as far as we go, that we are basing our own legislation and that we are recovering and going beyond everything that the deputy of Ciutadans said: this law of 2007, therefore, carry it to its maximum consequences. And in relation to this young man – and I have already said this in my previous intervention – we have entered a bit of a loophole when we have seen the six-and-five points, which is what you have done in common and the Socialist Party, because, well, as I said, you speak of legal security as a great mantra, but you also have legal behaviors, positions, which are absolutely contradictory: at the same time that you present unconstitutionality resources, you present motions in a plethora that you must have economic means that you understand to be suspended. Therefore, those who first lack the principle of legal certainty of any legal system are you with your own way of proceeding. With regard to our negative vote at 4 a.m., we will vote against it because you link the negotiating lives with the fact that housing occupations are not criminal or conflicting. Then we have the doubt of what you mean by criminals. What is it, that mediators will have to put in some procedure to clarify if something is criminal or not criminal? When can a conduct be conflicting or not? They are absolutely indeterminate legal concepts. And, therefore, we cannot vote in favour of this point. And in relation to point 9a, we have already said on other occasions – and we will abstain – that we cannot base policies on transfers of public resources to private hands. We are not voting against it, because there is an exceptional situation. And that's why we want to show our discontent with this way of doing housing policies. And, therefore, we will abstain. And I've got 20 seconds left to answer that they're dropping more floors to secure the right to housing. We understand you don't. Is it that we need to build more if it turns out that each time they give more urbanistic demands and, therefore, the habitats are intended for purposes that are not to satisfy the demand for housing? Therefore, as long as we are building, if we do not dedicate them to habitation, nothing serves us to build, only to gather territories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.192.0	Then there is the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.193.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, well, we will go back to..., or we will try to complete some of the arguments that we have already used for the previous motion, which, although they do not seem to be, I do believe that in some respects they complement each other, and, as both the CUP Parliamentary Group and the parliamentary group of the commons have said, both motions have basically been supported and will be supported. As I mentioned earlier, I believe that the diagnosis of the housing problem, at least in Catalonia, is obvious. There has been a lack of strategic planning of the same, a lack of specific public housing policies, and access to housing has in fact become almost an unattainable right, even if it is taken up by our Constitution, not as a fundamental right but as one of the rights that our Constitution contains, which, surely..., and I also wish to continue to support from today and for today and beyond, and from 78. I believe that one of the great privileges that we have to have this Constitution is precisely to have this right incorporated into it. And what we have to do without a doubt is continue to develop it and continue to work for it. We have also adopted laws here, such as the one I commented on, the 18/2007, in which we proposed in 2027 to have a 15_per_cent of public housing, and we are about 2_per_cent. We fail to comply with our own laws, our own proposals, but we try to teach everyone what democracy is often about. It must be made clear that we can agree in some way on the common description of the problem, but I believe not on the solutions. Evidently ; now we are not going to discuss that we do not have the same model, in many cases, of solving the rhythms or problems that we find ourselves, but it is evident that the only way to carry out an effective rental housing policy for the middle and working classes is to influence – and we have said that other times – the supply, increasing the supply, building – yes, building – and dedicating that construction to precisely public rental housing. It is very simple: to introduce this proposal into the market is to reduce – or should reduce – prices. And it's the right thing to do. And we don't believe... – and we're already moving forward – we're going to vote against all that is to develop that law passed almost at the last moment, in September last year, to try to limit the direct price of rentals in Catalonia. It's not working. In fact, it is clear that, with the pandemic, what has been reduced is not the supply, but the demand. And I have heard at some point during this plenary session that it was proving to be working. It is impossible to prove that it works because in a pandemic situation the data we can have are neither credible nor, in fact, acceptable as such. So we don't think it's gonna work. It didn't work. Focusing on directly rental prices does not work, it is demonstrated throughout Europe, but, well, here I guess we want to continue to invent formulas that are not the most appropriate. And, taking advantage of this, the PSC: it is true that they have resorted to this law, but they should have suspended it, and the Government of Spain should have done so. The Spanish Government has to suspend this law of limitation of rents, which, moreover, has already been dictated as such, with some unconstitutional articles, by our Council of Guarantees Statutàries. Therefore, I do not know what we expect, to generate more, in this case, legal security problems between those who are renting and the tenants and those who want access to housing. About the motion. Very fast. I have already commented, all that has to do with the development of that law adopted in September last year, we are, in principle, going to vote against it. We don't believe in that model much less. On some points, yes to develop the territorial sectoral housing plan of Catalonia. On the promotion of the Catalan housing pact – or pact nationale per l'habitatge –, poms, in my case, in our case, we are always opening forums of debate that the only thing they do to us is, because what I have commented before, do not have budgets, or those 1,000_millions that we have to devote to housing because they never arrive, never arrive because there are no budgets or because they are not approved or because we are debating them in a forum. Furthermore, thank you for presenting this proposal. I think it's interesting to be able to talk about housing and have two motions to talk about housing. We do not share the solutions, but I think this is where we have to discuss all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.194.0	And then there's the word Mrs. Eva Parera, on behalf of the Mixed Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.195.0	Thank you, President. See, we're back to feeling the phrase "it's not all built and we need to get habitat back. I don't know what problem you have with construction and the construction sector, frankly. Construction does housing, construction generates work places, construction pays taxes and construction helps to revive the economy. And, to me, the premise of commons of "recovering habitat – we are patenting it at the Barcelona City Council – ends up being expropriated. And, in the end, it turns out that, for example, the Barcelona City Council has eighty-three empty municipal buildings where it is not built, it ends up expropriating and has an absolutely paralyzed metropolitan operator, after a first attempt by a totally failed metropolitan operator, because there is no private sector confidence in the management of the Public Administration. And, therefore, they don't want to stay, because I don't convince them. They're telling us we need to work on detecting vulnerability before the denudations arrive. I pointed out the phrase as you said. We totally agree. We share these criteria, we need to detect vulnerability before the denunciation arrives. But when the denunciation is above, it has to be completed and respected. And what needs to be done from the Administration is to accompany that person who has been deboned and help her find a housing solution. And what can't be done in any case is to ask the owners to assume the responsibility that has not been able to exercise the Administration. Because it's that, in the end, they end up making a name for owning a house or owning a home is being rich, and that's not true. It's not like that. A lot of people depend on that guy not to fall into a situation of vulnerability either. And, therefore, what we can't kick forward and pass my problem on to another: we solve the problem to that person who can't pay the lloger, but we pass it on to the owner of the 'living', who then can't end up collecting that lloger. They're talking about recovering touristic habitats. There is already a limitation of the claims that arise in touristic habitats. It's approved, there's a limitation, but the one that can't be planted – and it gives me the feeling that the door opens up – is that whoever has a claim has to be removed from it and put this "living" to "social living. Listen, so no, that person has the whole right of the world to lay down that "living place and dedicate it to tourist habitation, and he has the whole right of the world to demand a claim and exercise it if it has been tied to it. I agree that we need to regulate it – and it's already regulated – but look at the messages we're launching. They say we have to allocate resources to inspections and sanctions. Home, so no, we allocate resources to increase the public housing stock. And of course there must be an inspection or a sanction, but this must not be the priority of where resources are allocated, it must be another. They plant in their place to recover laws that have been declared unconstitutional and laws that are rescinded with a clear, we see..., with a clear indication that they will be annulled. The surrender law was annulled in Berlin by a constitutional court. It's not an oppressive court, it's the Berlin Constitutional Court, and that's happening to many other cities, because it's not the way. So we're still applying sanctions with a law that's being appealed and that's probably gonna end up being declared null and void. Let's see what happens to these sanctions that we're applying, but this isn't the way. The next thing I know, to recover the laws that have already been passed is to stare at the same wall. Oh, come on, we know this isn't right. It shall be re-appealed and re-declared null and void. So, I really don't see it that complicated. In other words, policy must be based, in housing, on public-private collaboration, which is the best solution. It is the best solution, because the Administration has to build, we have to allow the private to be built and we have to come to a consensus among all because there is a public park of "sufficient social life, which allows us to solve a problem that is difficult. Certainly, it's hard. But do it from what I said before in the CUP company's motion: strictly; or so, not from a sectarianism of just the public, and it's that the private is the pain and the owner is the pain, because it's what makes this feeling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.196.0	Thank you very much. Now, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Ms. Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.197.0	Thank you very much, President. So on the papers presented, we accepted and traded those that we thought contributed to enriching and improving the youth. We did not accept those who were trying to bring her down and throw pilots out, which is the policy of the Government of Catalonia in terms of housing. How do you get pilots out? , together, to the Government of the State, who it is. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, it is that they have the competence in housing, that I have read them the State. Let them say that if the Statute remains short for us..., not if it remains short for us or not, probably yes, there is much to improve, but it is that what has been inhabited here does not. So maybe they're doing the least they have to do. [[Some applause.]] They don't. Now, yes, the gatherings they do, that if the government of the state retails, that, moreover, is not true either. Why not all legislative and executive initiatives in housing policies? Because the legislative initiative in Catalonia in recent years has been movement and social organization. This Parliament and the government have done what they have done is follow social movements and organizations. The law of content that we're all talking about is an initiative of the Llogateres Union, and as such, we've joined in. And if this law, which has been resorted to by the Constitutional – because, moreover, we have had, and we do not forget, a demolishing report from the Catalonian State Guarantee Board – it is not suspected because We Can and In Common We can be in government. That's why he didn't suspect himself. [[Widow's remorse. Rialles.]] That's it. And there's another reason: if this is going to go along with regulation and the content of rendering at the state level, it's because we can and can be in the state government and flush the Socialist Party, because, if not, they won't do it. They like it better, they like it less. [[Widow's remorse.]] Another question: it's not so much... or so, we could see how at the level of the Government of the State it can do more, it can water to complete the government pact, and it's costing us a lot. I believe that the companies of the UPC would also do well to take note, because the agreement that they have signed I want to see, in two years' time, when there is the question of trust of Mr Aragonès, how much has been fulfilled by this agreement and if they will continue to renew their trust. And you continue to prefer a government with Juntes for Catalonia, which is the hero of Democratic Convergence, which is indeed the 78th rule.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.198.0	We called for a vote. [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Roldan?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.199.0	For a separate vote, Madam President. See, a few points. The 7th and the 9th, they could go together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.200.0	The 7, the 9 bis...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.201.0	Yeah. And then, for another band, point number 1, point number 2, point 4a, point 8, point 9, point 11 and point 14, which they could also go together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.202.0	All right. [[Montserrat Vinyets Pagès asks to speak.]] Mrs. Vinyets, come in.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.203.0	Yes, Madam President, for a separate vote on the 4a and 9a.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.204.0	All right, they were precluding. [[Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.]] Mr. Martín Blanco? [[Ignacio Martín Blanco intervenes without using the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.205.0	Point 13, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.206.0	Point 13, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.207.0	Okay. [[Alice Romero Llano asks to speak.]] Mrs. Romero?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.208.0	Yes, we asked for a separate vote on 3, 10, 5, 6 and 15.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.209.0	The 3, the 10, the 5 and the 15? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The 5, 6 and 15. Well, we've got it almost already, haven't we? [[Joan Garriga Doménech asks to speak.]] Mr. Garriga?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.210.0	Ask for a separate vote from points 7 and 8, which I believe 8 was not covered by anyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.211.0	Yeah, yeah, it was already called the eight. Mrs Romero, the points you said can be voted together? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All that he said? [[Pause. Marta Vilalta and Torres ask to speak.]] Mrs. Vilalta?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.212.0	Yes, we also want to ask for separate votes from points 7, 9, 9a and 10, which could be voted together, but it does not coincide with the rest of the petitions. And, for another band, point 8. I therefore believe that perhaps the best would be to vote separately from all points, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.213.0	It seems that the only points that have remained unharmed are the 4th and 12th, therefore. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] We see if we can do the joint vote on points 1, 2, 9 and 11. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, [[Marta Vilalta and Torres ask to speak.]] Mrs. Vilalta?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.214.0	Yes, for our part yes, minus point 9.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.215.0	Okay. We'd talk about 1, 2 and 11. Did Mrs Romero tell us on the 3rd and 10th that they could go together, in another block? [[Pause.]] Okay. So let's see, so-so. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, three and ten, right? So we'll separate them, not duck. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's better to do it right by right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, they asked for it separately. [[Widow's remorse.]] That's it, that's it. We're not trying to fix it, so we're not going to fix it, are we? We're voting point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved with 79 votes in favour, 20 against and 32 abstentions. Then we vote on point 4. Point 4_has been approved with 111 votes in favour and 20 votes against. Then we vote on the 4a point. Point 4a was approved by 108 votes to 20, with 3 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number five. The vote begins. Point 5 was approved by 77 votes to 53. Then we vote on point 6. The vote begins. Point 6 was approved by 78 votes to 53. Then we vote point number 7. The vote begins. Point 7 was approved with 70 votes in favour and 61 abstentions. Then we vote on point number 8. The vote begins. Point 8 was approved by 69 votes to 59, with 3 abstentions. Then we vote on point 9. The vote begins. Point 9 is approved... no, it has 50 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 64 abstentions. We're voting 9-a point now. The vote begins. Point 9 bis has 50 votes in favour, 11 against and 70 abstentions. Let's jump to point number 11. The vote begins. Point 11 was approved with 117 votes in favour, 11 against and 3 abstentions. We'll do point number 10 now. The vote begins. Point 10 has 17 votes in favour, 20 against and 94 abstentions. Let's jump to point 12. The vote begins. It was approved with 111 votes in favour and 20 votes against. We're voting point number 13. The vote begins. Point 13 was approved with 111 votes in favour, 14 against and 6 abstentions. We're voting point number 14 now. The vote begins. The 14_point was approved by 117 votes to 11, with 3 abstentions. We're voting point number 15. The vote begins. Point 15 has been approved with 80 votes in favour and 51 against. And now we're voting points 1 and 2, together. The vote begins. There were 111 votes in favour, 11 against and 9 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the absolvement of the energy transition objectives set out in Law 16/2017, of the climate change]] [[302-00006/13]] Let's move on to the twenty-two on the order of the day, the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on the absolvement of the energy transition targets set by Law 16/2017, of climate change. He has been presented for the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Forward Units, and has the word to expose it to Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.216.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, deputies and deputies, two days ago it was World Wind Day. Being a territory like ours, Catalonia, that fights against climate change, that wants to decarbonize its economy, its activities means to have green energy in quantity, energy that is accessible to everyone. The electric energy that will come will be wind and solar, although sometimes listening to some positions of some social sectors, have not understood and do not want it either rural or urban. The solution to decarbonization is not nuclear energy, at least for us. In fact, the current Government of Spain, presided over by President Pedro Sánchez, has already set a timetable for the shutdown of nuclear reactors in our country. The European Union is not familiar with all of us, either. Replacing nuclear energy and fossil to produce electricity is not unexpected. This is a strategic debate for Catalonia's future. We, our parliamentary group, counsel, offer him a collaboration with joy because we play a lot of folds. The motion I hope today that we will approve, in its majority of points, is a minimum agreement for our parliamentary group, but it can help to clear the way. I also want to thank Congresswoman Serret for the negotiation we've had of the points of this young man, because the back we have in front of us is a capital front, isn't it? In these moments, Catalonia – the questioner – is in Spain and the European Union in the field of renewable energy. We are slow, very slow to achieve the objectives that fix the Catalan climate change law: in two years we have only been able to install an aerogenerator and photovoltaic solar for self-consumption – small too, huh? And beyond the initial political constraints that all of us, each of us, can have, the decisions we have to adopt will have to be taken with data. It is essential for us to guarantee the sufficiency and quality of the administration to the people and businesses of the country. The Catalan climate change law – 15 days ago – states that the year 2030 50_percent of electricity demand must be met by renewable energies. That means, plug in already existing megawatts, that we will need a minimum of 4,000 megawatts in Earth wind and 6,500 solar photovoltaics, according to Icaen data. It's hard for me to see Members and Members of Parliament and Government Councilors and Councilors the year 2050 have responsibilities. Now we have the responsibility – now, at these times – to make decisions, because what we have said is that the year 2050 we want the percent of energy to be renewable. This means, with data from Icaen another time, that to cover the demand it will need, the year 2050 will need between sixty-three and sixty-eight gigawatts. What do you mean? 29,500 megawatts of photovoltaics on the ground, 15,500 photovoltaics on the ground, and 18,000 megawatts of wind, more than current hydraulics and all green thermal sources. It is true, the energy transition is disruptive and must allow us actors: cooperatives, private, local, energy communities or other types of entrepreneurs, to enter the energy market. Also the current businesses. We need to facilitate – and here, to the young man, there are points that go in this line – the possibility that everyone can enter it. This is why we propose that Icaen is transformed into an energy agency, we propose that there be a public company to start running the hydroelectric plants that we will have to recover. And another time talking about the model, right? , this new generation of energy and all the energy efficiency and energy efficiency associated with it will involve, for the bottom line, mobilising only to Catalonia around 100,000_million euros. We will be very attentive – my group will be – to see the government's priorities in the future assumptions of the Generality, to see how these funds are increased at the disposal of various collections. Finally, from our point of view, it would be a disaster to face territories and sectors, but more disaster would be to put up with the deployment of renewables and de facto place us in the space of the negationists. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.217.0	It has the word to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Pom, the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.218.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillor, Members and Members, we already live under the effects of climate change in our country. The climate change is already a process in progress. The Observers Fabra retreated meteorological data from more than a hundred years ago, since 1914, and I chose it today to follow up on the latest records. The year 2020 was the warmest year ever recorded for the observer's story; it beat all the records. The month of fever was the warmest month of history ever recorded, almost thirty centigrades of middle, but the month of May was also the warmest month of history ever recorded and the month of November was also the warmest month of history. And we had a remembering summer – these days it's been very hot – last year, fifty-three nights followed by a minimum of twenty-five degrees, which is called a "night-twilight". It had only passed five times, which was more than fifty nits more than twenty-five degrees, in 2003 and the previous four years consecutively: 2020, 2019, 2018 and 2017. And on this ascent already present and that will go worse, and that has made us mark temperatures records never seen in our country, we have also seen 2020 extreme meteorological phenomena: we have seen the temporal Gloria, the Filomena or the minimum temperature never seen in Catalonia of less than thirty-four degrees to the generation of 2021 to the Clot of the Tuck of the Lance. And, therefore, global scalfing and strange phenomena, exotic meteorologically speaking, each time more frequent in our country. And on global warming, another central issue in the ecological transition: the loss of biodiversity at home and at global level. There is a recent report of the two institutions with the highest prestige at the international level – the IPCC, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and the IPBES, the Intergovernmental Platform on Biodiversity and Eco-Serves – which for the first time have made a joint report, and has put one thing on the table that is obvious: that ecological restoration is necessary to fight against climate change, that this did not continue to destroy habitats and ecosystems and put species at risk of survival while we fight for energy transition, but it is fundamental to restore the ecological quality of our ecosystems and our habitats to address, to mitigate, but also to adapt to the consciousness of the candidatures. And we've also seen it with the reports that the department of the Generalitat is preparing. The 2020 State of the Nature Report. What do you say? That we are losing biodiversity and natural heritage at an accelerated speed. In the last 20 years, and it's not so much, because we've been in 2001 for 20 years – I'm telling you because the time seems like it's been a long time – we've lost 25 percent of vertebrates and invertebrates in our home in the past 20 years. But it is that in river ecosystems and in gaps like Ricardo we have lost almost 60_per_cent, more than half of the people who conform to biodiversity in these ecosystems. And what's the PSC's answer? Bring here a declaratory motion on ecological transition while lobbying with two-hundred business entities to expand the Prat airport. I want to be very clear about this: the emissions that will increase the Prat airport are three times – three times – the commitment of the whole city of Barcelona that we need to reduce emissions. A project that is smoke, without technical reports, neither environmental nor economic, that is not of general interest, that is of employer interest to capture investments, as they have done all their life, and that they have the bar to say that they compensate for the environmental impact when the European Commission has opened them expediting them for the disaster they have caused to the delta of the Llobregat in the previous expansion of the airport. And that is the problem, which we cannot make declaratory motions to Parliament while we continue to destroy the territory. Because in Catalonia there is no Díaz Ayuso that makes speculative bubbles, but there is the PSC in Gavà that is making the biggest speculative bubble in our territories with 4,900 habitats in agricultural and forest only. We don't have Donald Trump, but we have a government in Catalonia that defends making Las Vegas in the natural interest of the community. And, therefore, we need to build an alternative to the socio-vergency that will continue to engulf the future of this country. And we need to do this with energy transition – and we need to talk about amending the decree – but also with future infrastructure in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.219.0	Then there is the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mr Salvador Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.220.0	All right, thank you, President. Counsel, MPs and MPs, the world is in climate emergency. Global warming in the face of winter gas is a fact and Catalonia forms part of this world, so we can't look at another band. It's a question of solidarity and it's a question of responsibility. And one of the areas we can focus on is energy, how much we spend and how much we generate it. As much as we spend on it. We need less energy and this goes through efficiency and to spend less materials, to spend less first materials. More circular economy. It is a social change of conduct, obviously tight for the carbon rate, but decreasing will not be enough if we want to maintain the same well-being. We need to get energy from renewable sources. The unsustainable era of fossil and nuclear fuels has ended, and we need this energy to be produced here, not out of the way, entering via MAT and feeling more expensive. In fact, energy sovereignty is essential to our independence. In the band of hydropower, which is already very exploited, we only have photovoltaics and we have wind, and this means plates and means mills. And, unfortunately, so they're not transparent. Therefore, it is up to us to assume a certain cost: to live with it. Still can't be. We have – motivated and for the most part – a law that makes us want to decarbonize in the cent_per_cent of the year 2050, but then we have a certain relapse to make. We're in front of a paradigm shift. In fact, it is similar to when humans with agriculture first altered the landscape to be able to equip themselves with food that is also energy, they are the first energy. Therefore, it is now up to us to assume again a certain alteration of the landscape in order to be able to continue existing and evolving. It would not be to accept the hypocrisy of continuing to move the problem to oil refineries, uranium extraction mines, etc., to other places on the planet simply because we don't see it there. Sometimes we focus on saving a local biotop without considering that we are not a closed system and that saving a local biotop is only possible if we save the global biotop. In fact, without energy transition there will be no possible preservation of landscape or biodiversity. And science and solvent data before any debate begins. We can't fall into populisms like this we're saving with only the roofs, because unfortunately no study will be said to be this way. I can do pedagogy and it's a question to ask all of us. Currently, in Catalonia we cover only 20_percent of the current electricity demand, which is less than 10_percent of what we will have to cover 2050, much higher obviously for decarbonization. If we compare it to a similar country in a population like Denmark, they cover already 55_per_cent; they have 6,228 turbines when we have 811. Obviously, we have a natural reality of wind and sun that is certainly more interesting in parts of the country. But if we manage with intelligence the projects of less than fifty megawatts, which are those for which we have power in Catalonia, we can distribute with balance for the territory pal·liant excessive concentrations and paradoxically, if we repeal the law, as some would call it, what we will do will increase the macroprojects of more than fifty megawatts, which are the ones that fall from Madrid. And how does all this work out? So with the utmost respect and sensitivity for the territory. We have a multi-departmental ponència that filters cross-sectionally each project, from an environmental point of view, agrarian. We must age for food sovereignty, urbanism, economics, culture. What we need to do is clarify and publish the criteria and integrate the municipal world into among them, ensure that we have dual local participation, analysis and debate, but also economically that we can also be the people who own these projects, and always loving the new technologies that can emerge, because the plates and mills, fortunately, can be dismantled without a scar, if one day you fail. Renewables, in addition, generate more work places than those that destroy, operate on European foundations Next Generation – I think of the Valley of Green Hydrogen in Tarragona – and reduce the price of megawatt/hour fighting the poor energy. We shall vote in favour of the fifteen points with the proposals introduced. We will mill the legislation in the lines I have explained, but what it is that is already diagnosing with science, debating with responsibility and executing quickly. And, as I have time, a given: the next two years will need to invest 10,000_million euros for the total elimination of fossils and nuclear; that's 1,000_million euros a year. Therefore, it will be necessary to count on public and private collaboration, but also on companies. It's like a barbarity of money, but it's just a 6_percent of Espanya's espola. It's what we have in Catalans, isn't it? , that any reversal we plant, however pharaonic it is, always ends up feeling the scocolata of crying next to the Spanish espoli. I finally take this subject up. Socialists and commons, you who have Mrs. Ada Colau's furniture, would ask you to ask, if you please, that you put us a point of charge of electric vehicles here in Parliament, because the parching is of municipal title. [[Some applause.]] If you were a member of Parliament, I'm sure our president would have solved it a long time ago. Those of us who come with a hundred-per-cent electric vehicles and come from a lot of miles away, we'd be very grateful. Thank you very much. And next to you, Marcel Vivet. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.221.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Meritxell Serret has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.222.0	Good afternoon, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, well, I'll try to get enough on today's theme, from this motion on energy transition. In this sense, when proposing the motion, Mr. Terrades, it is up to him to recognize his predisposition to mingle and to be able to trade the different points of his motion. And in this sense, linking it with the idea and the concept, I think shared by most of this chamber, that we are ahead of the end of the energy transition, that we can only face with the country successfully if we are able to build great consensus, build this complicity of all the country's citizens and economic sectors, and that, like the Republican Left and also from the government, we are clear that we want to make concrete through this national pact to link this energy transition and to make it concrete with the law that this young man is also doing, a law for energy transition. From the Republican Left we have very clear this idea of the great consensus, we have said it repeatedly. We have the four great transformations that we have to face with the country and that they require and that we are willing to work to make reality, that they are the feminist, social, green and democratic. And, in this sense, let us hope that we can find ourselves in these great consensuses. In the concrete case of this energy transition, plus, I want to do the thing and paraphrase what Councilwoman Jordan says, and that's that we have a lot of work to do and we'll do it all. And I want to add, as you know, that we will make it well, because, in addition, Councilwoman Jordan has the vision that it takes to move forward safely in this transition, that it is linking and integrating energy policies with rural and territorial development policies, linking this rural agenda with this necessary energy transition agenda. We are therefore committed and determined to boost renewable energies. We want the whole society to make this energy transition with this new, more democratic, more community-based, more just and more distributed model to advance into this social and territorial cohesion. From here, this young man, after all the tests and transactions, we think he's on the line of what, right? In addition, however, in line with the agreements that we have also made with Juntes per Catalunya and with the support that we have also received with the agreement of the UPC, I am aware that it is always a minimum agreement that we must move forward and improve. Because we want to make this energetic transition to the service – to the service – of the welfare of the citizenry and to the service of rural development and sustainable territory. And we want to end that false and truly negative idea that territory and people must always be at the service of capital and investment. It is the other way around: we need, in this transition, that the vaginal investments to the service of sustainable development. For this reason, a decisive action – and in a few points it is also a step backwards in this motion – decided from now on, as Mr Terrades also mentioned, and also the different Members who have intervened, from the Parliament, from the Government, in this amendment of Decree 16/2019, in the impulse of this law for energy transition, along with all the support measures and criteria with priority being given to non-productive agricultural soils or industrial land with low economic activity, or prioritizing all those projects already agreed on in the European Foundations of the Next Generation, or also promoting public management in the interests of hydroelectric power plants, or when we are also talking about what is to be a comprehensive tax reform that allows this to be neutral. We are clear that there is an energetic transition that links us with the outflow of the crisis. That is why we already need this action and a reactivation that is economically advancing towards climate neutrality, promoting biodiversity through the circular economy and through this sustainable mobility, and also a social reactivation that ends up with the poor energy and, as I say, fostering this social and territorial cohesion. For this reason, this model that we want to push from the Republican Left Group and supporting the Government and giving the maximum guarantees in this transition, as I said before, to give all confidence to the citizens, the territories, their people, and also to all the projects and investments that will be needed to make it a reality. We want to transform the country, we also want to transform the future of our country and its people into a green transition, I insist, for their welfare. That's why we're finally giving support to all the points of this young man. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.223.0	Finally, to present the papers presented has the word Dani Cornellà, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.224.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, well, the CUP Group we have presented different papers to this motion presented for the Socialist Party. It's hard for us, because it hasn't incorporated any of what we've done, and that creates contradictions for us. We don't know if what we're looking for is that we don't vote for it or whatever it is that we're looking for, because at the end of the day, some of those that have been accepted by other parties are exactly the same as the ones we've presented. Curious things. But well, we're still here. We understand it's important and we'll support almost half the points of this young man. We will support seven of the fifteen points, because we do understand this need to develop renewable energies in Catalonia – many years ago we defended it – and also the development of climate change law. Another contradiction that generates this motion is that they constantly talk about the law of climate change, and when we hear our power they have not interpreted it very well. Article 2.2 tells us that it is to contribute to the transition to a society in which the consumption of fossil fuels tends to be zero, with a decentralized energy system and with renewable 100_per_cent energies, mainly of proximity. In Article 19 you also tell us that it must be developed, whenever possible, taking advantage of previously altered spaces for human activity. I etcetera. We could continue to talk about different articles of this law that we do believe in, but that, in our opinion, the group that presents this young man does not register, because for another band he presents us – as has already been said here – projects like that of the Prat airport, that what he does is to promote an excessive tourist model, which this country can no longer assume, with a CO2 emission that will not meet all the parameters that we want to complete for these own years and that is not the model for which we are betting. So we don't mean to fill this mouth with the law of climate change when after what you propose for our country is an overgrowth that we can no longer assume, right? , but all the contrary: the one we have to start working is for a real decline. Nor do we understand how you can speak of the law of climate change when we see that the laws that have developed since then, as can be the Decree of Law 16/2019, which is bringing us all the contrary of these articles that I have quoted from the first law of climate change. We see that what has been provoking the country for some time now is a phenomenon of the emergence of solar and photovoltaic macro-centres. Well, in fact, you have heard of the country no; in fact, there are many centralizations in concrete territories, and that you, of all the parties, have already felt – I suppose, I hope – like the territory – a little representing all these parties that we have here today, also those that present the motion – like the Segarra, the Garrigues, the Urgell, but also the Alt Empordà, the Alt Camp, the Anoia, the Priory or the Barbera Conca are territories where they have given themselves completely white card to the appearance of these macro-central wind and photovoltaics and, obviously, to a mass of the territory – of certain territories – that in which the territory has risen against this decree you defend and that you send it to us in advance. Because the opposite of what you are talking about to the Socialists Group has been totally done, but also the deputy Salvador de Junts. He's done a sketch in the territory, he's done a sketch in the joints, he's done a sketch in the entities. You've made a mockery of everyone, and now you're defending it and you want to change it. Now they won't find us with this change, because, as you know, we've already voted against this decree because we said that this is what I'm saying right now, this massiveity, this appearance of energetic oligopolises, of soft foundations, that are staying all pasty and in the name of renewable energies want to destroy the whole territory once more. That is why, for now, we do not trust this change. We continue to think that the best solution is to repeal and start again and start well, with the participation of the whole territory and not putting it against, as we are at present. But well, there's always the vote of confidence too, because we believe in renewables, we're at the back. The territory also thinks there has to be a change. It is clear that there is a climate emergence that is not new, that it has been going on for a long time and, therefore, our position now is this. Let us hope, then, that we can work together and that we can change our minds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.225.0	Thank you very much. Then to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, the deputy Mr Antoni Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.226.0	Well, thank you very much, President. This motion perfectly sums up one of the great mantras on the left, doesn't it? , the imminent environmental apocalypse. We are dealing with a classic matter in which, if one dares to take a critical position or introduce some kind of shade, in this new compulsory religion is automatically marked heretic and burned in public, is it not? Some of us are not so clear that the world will end tomorrow. I listen to you and it gives you that feeling. In VOX we have a moral obligation to give the cultural battle and that's why I'll tell you without anesthesia: with the excuse of the green and the terrifying climate change are wasting huge amounts of taxpayers' money on colorful chiringuitos, magical programs and dismantling our productive economy. We remain unaltered on the path begun thirty years ago with the Kyoto Protocol. The goal was to reduce carbon dioxide emissions at all costs. Well, the result is that global emissions in 1990 have increased by 50_per_cent. In the West, we flog with the fight against climate change, although we are only guilty of a small part of that pollution. Europe and Spain – Spain – is only guilty of less than 1% of the planet's emissions. Therefore, we are not the problem. China continues to pollute more than the United States, India, Russia, Japan and Germany together. Just as with the crisis of the coronavirus, as our economies fall, yours grows constantly in the face of the complicit silence of the rest of the world. The new Chinese communist giant welcomes that you, with your green ideology – green neoideology – dismantle entire industrial sectors, which make us increasingly less competitive, send thousands of unemployed workers every day, invite us to iron at three o'clock in the morning, pay for the most expensive electricity or gasoline in the historical series and impoverish more and more families with their lamentable taxation. With data in your hand, all this stuff you hear here today is questionable, huh? , and I have to tell you that from our point of view all this is posed as a huge moral trap and the population will soon realize it. The extreme liberating and confiscatory ecology that summarizes this motion is neither sensible, nor realistic, nor responsible because there is no serious international commitment of the great superpowers. It is not appropriate to be greener than anyone at any price when the one that is falling at this time is falling. We are supporters of the « you saw me slowly that I am in a hurry. That is, it is clear that, if less CO2 can be emitted, it is emitted, but it is that they are at a brutal crazy pace that is mortgageing hundreds of thousands of euros and is, therefore, damaging the Spanish economy and that of many families. We must therefore change the mix, but at a much more reasonable speed. We are in favour of sincere conservationism: we ask for sanity, balance and less propaganda. It is compatible to love your country, to love nature, to love the ecosystem, to love your land, to love Spain..., and it is compatible with freedom and economic progress; it is compatible. And you always choose the path you don't touch. Spanish workers don't have to pay that you're dyeing your classic red speech in green. His is a watermelon speech, a watermelon message: green on the outside and red on the inside, blaming capitalism for all the evils on the planet, including those of its own health. Behind this approach it is clear that there is a message from those who have always been. Its declared hostility to fossil fuels or to nuclear energy makes no sense. Nor put all eggs in the energy mix when they only bet on discontinuous energies, which are still inefficient, more expensive and do not guarantee electricity supply. That is why, since VOX, we have used this motion to recall five ideas that do not reflect its approach: we are for the maintenance of nuclear power; for not squandering billions in green projects of dubious environmental and economic efficiency; not impoverishing more families with their taxation' echo; remembering those companies that are less and less competitive as a result of the price of energy, and listening to the mayors in Catalonia, who are witnessing a real misconception that you are feeding them windmills and photovoltaic plates without consulting them. Nothing more. For all these reasons, we shall vote against. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.227.0	Next, and to fix her position, the deputy Marina Bravo has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.228.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors, I wish they were feeding us mills a little more, because we're going to queue up all over Spain as far as renewable energy production is concerned here in Catalonia. This motion on energy transition and climate change allows us, with this intervention, two things: firstly, to make it very clear, again, here in this rostrum, what is our group's position on this issue, which is quite different from what we have just heard; and, secondly, to remind this Government that it loves to fill its mouth with beautiful words, with 'climate action,' with 'the fight against climate change,' with 'the first law, but then, when it comes to action, when it really comes to wetting up on issues that are a little more delicate or more conflictive, so nothing at all. Well, as for our position. Last night I was having dinner with a couple of friends who have very small children – a couple of twins and a child under a year old – and seeing them also I thought about the motion and the position that I had to defend myself here today. In Citizens, we have said it many times, we have as one of our essential objectives to move towards a society in which all citizens can develop their life plan, whatever they want, each one he chooses and each one as he pleases. And it is also in our principles that they can do so on equal terms, with equal opportunities and with the sole limitation of not interfering in the freedoms of others in an unjustifiable way. These principles, which are in our DNA, also clearly have – and therefore I remembered these children – an intergenerational projection. That intergenerational projection of our principles demands that our actions today, therefore, do not prevent future generations from developing, just as we can do today, their vital projects. In this way, I do not need to tell you that the preservation of the environment and the fight against climate change become, on the basis of these principles which are in our DNA, a fundamental element for us. That is why we will vote in favour of virtually all this motion. As far as the Government is concerned, it seems that it will also vote in favour, therefore, for what we have heard and also for all those transactions which it has reached with the proposing group, well, I would like to remind you of a couple of things. One is that the final text of this motion has much less courage, much less determination and hints at a much smaller bet by the renewables than the original text had. And then, one more thing, that the Government likes to talk about renewables very much, likes to talk about the fight against climate change and then, at the time of truth, nothing, because, if not, how is it explained that being the first to have a law to fight climate change, the first to declare a climate emergency situation here in Catalonia... How is it explained that, after all that, Catalonia is in line with Spain in terms of the generation of green energy? I believe that most Catalans would have preferred less pompousness and less advertisements, and have a greater proportion of renewable energy, which is far from being proportional in Spain to our weight or in GDP or in population or in energy consumption. But it is also true that with the amendments that have been tabled and accepted by the rapporteur group, what they suggest is that their intention is to continue like this, that their intention is not to raise the awareness of society that we have to put the piles on this, but that what they are thinking is to see how to continue to block these projects. Almost all the amendments they have tabled are therefore in line. And unfortunately, therefore, the proposing party, the PSC, judging by the transactions it has arrived at, has been infected with this lack of ambition and determination that this Government has with renewable energies. But we already know that the PSC, when it comes to dealing with this government or when it comes to negotiating with them, is often wrong..., a little complex, and many of those progressive principles are forgotten or left aside that it should defend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.229.0	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.230.0	Yes, thank you, President. Jo, very, very short. She's a pretty thorough young lady, she's got a lot of points. It's been talked about here this late, it's been given... I think denying the climate change, man, sounds a little distressed to me. I believe that Mr Lucas Ferro has contributed, in addition, many data and yesterday we also had the opportunity to speak in the motion of the Delta Study Commission..., we spoke, therefore, of global warming, of rising sea level, of these meteorological phenomena that are each time more frequent; we suffered the weariness, Gloria, the Filomena, this year with this snow that was spectacular, and still makes us think that this will not be done, but that every time they will be more frequent and often, right? So, man, that there is a climate change, I think we can't deny it, that man's action has a great deal of importance in this climate change, and we can't deny it, and that we have to work to push forward, so this energetic transition that sets the young man up, obviously, too. We, in fact, from the People's Party, we agree... we are sensitive that we have to face this climate emergency and that we have to take a series of measures, but that doesn't mean we have to agree, so with all these mantras, right? , that the left repeated and that it seems that you are either with them or you are against them. No, no, There's got to be a middleman, and so we've got some things out there that we don't agree with. Most of the points we'll pick them up. I'm going to try now a little bit to point it out to straighten up a little bit of the debate. But, for the most part, we will vote in favour. We agree with all those measures, as I said, which serve to boost the net energies and with the objectives that we set here, but we must also explain that we are not in favour of removing generational sources that do not generate emissions and therefore contribute to their reduction. And I am talking, for example, about nuclear energy, in line with the last decisions of the Nuclear Security Council, which has therefore extended the useful life of some centres such as Vandellòs II. We also agree with the imperative need to speed up the administrative processing of new renewable energy projects, as since the last regulation, which was certainly in 2010, when the Socialist Party ruled, therefore, they went through them to prevent the growth of megawatts installed in Catalonia. That is why we are defending this new decree, 16/2019, which allowed the installations to be boosted, but it is true that we have also observed malfunctions here. And I don't think it's a waste that, for example, the joints can't hold an authorized position on the nine installations, nor is it a waste of the generality's discretion at the time of the lawsuits. And less can we still agree with the current situation that in fact, therefore, what implies is that there are no new authorizations due to this pact with the UPC. We, in this concrete point of the decree, will abstain. We'll have to see if this change is really driven and how it's all folded up. We also agree with the tax support for the nine installations, but not with the policy of fiscal penalties to which the Socialist Party has already accustomed, and also with the left Republican and Junts, that every time they can, therefore, we have a new tax, so that's what it is. In this, we disagree and therefore vote against this proposal for tax reform, because it is coming from the Socialist Party, so we already know what that means. For us, environmental taxation does not just mean punishing negative attitudes towards environmental conservation. They must also be able to mean..., or they must be able to encourage those positive attitudes in relation to the environment. I think this second part of you either didn't just hear it or maybe you don't want to hear it. I don't know for sure. We are also against the nationalization of hydraulic power stations, because I think it is more a dogmatic proposal than not practical. We will also abstain from the proposal to convert the Català de l'Energia Institute into a new agency. The truth is, we can't find his practical utility. In fact, we think you don't have it and maybe you don't have any more organization, institutes, agencies... I think we've had enough. And last but not least – I'm running out of time – for which we're approving carbon assumptions, we'll support them, we're in favour, but, man, it's true that we're late, because, in fact, they should have been approved by the end of 2020. We're in the middle of 2021 and it doesn't look very good. Let's just wait and see what happens in the next few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.231.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Roldán. And now to pronounce on the papers, has the word Lord Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.232.0	Thank you, President. Now that President Trump is not in the press, I have appeared in the Parliament in the form of the Welsh MP. Certainly, Mr Gallego, the Xina has consolidated its position as the world leader in renewables, with a cumulative total of 894 gigawatts. Only by 2020, China's gigawatt growth in renewable energy has been one hundred and twenty megawatts. There's an insurmountable contradiction with Deputy Cornellà. Basically, in all the papers we could have reached agreements, less in one, which was the motion for a derogation from Decree 16 of 2009. Someday I'd like to know if they'd explain to us where they're going to put the sixty-three, sixty-eight gigawatts that the country will need to run, families and businesses. Someday I'd like you to explain it to us. We must reach territorial and sectoral agreements so that we do not fall into sterility. And we have to donate instruments, because the energy transition is disruptive, so that these huge economic resources that we need..., not the big oligopolises, the big energy corporations, also the local communities, also the joint ventures, also the cooperatives, where will we get out? And, finally, Mr. Iron, do you know what the problem is? That where there's something to put up with, I always find Mrs. Colau and the common ones. [[Greetings. Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.233.0	Yes, Mr. Iron, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.234.0	In reference to Article 87, for allusions by Mr Salvador Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.235.0	Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.236.0	Because I'm not told, I've been told that Barcelona City Hall has a meeting with you in the next few days; I think it's a good time to approach the car parks. And Mr. Terrades, it's hard for us to find out if they're just doing lobbyists from this country's employer. Thank you very much. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.237.0	Before the vote starts... [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]] Mrs. Roldán, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.238.0	Yes, President. To ask for a separate vote. See, for one band on the 6th and 13th, they can go together, and for the other, 8, 14 and 15, they can go together as well.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.239.0	They could also go together 8, 14, 15– 6 and 13, and 8, 14 and 15. [[Dani Cornellà Detrell asks to speak.]] Mr. Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.240.0	Yes, thank you. We asked if they could go together on 1, 3, 4, 9, 11, 12, 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.241.0	11, 12...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.242.0	13 and 14.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.243.0	13 and 14. They're separated?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.244.0	No, they could go together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.245.0	This pack could go...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.246.0	This pack and the other pack too, together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.247.0	All right. [[Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.]] Mr. Martin.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.248.0	President, for a separate vote of 6, 8, 13 and 14 and all separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.249.0	Okay; 6, 8, 13 and 14. Any more petitions for a vote? [[Pause.]] Don't you? Therefore, I understand that we could make a pack 1, 3, 4, 9, 11 and 12, these will vote together; 6 separately; 8, 13, 14 and 15. All right. [[Long break.]] We'll start the vote on point 6. We're voting point number six. The vote begins. Point 6 was approved by 110 votes to 20. Next, we'll vote for point number eight. The vote begins. Point 8 was also approved by 110 votes to 17, with 3 abstentions. Let's now vote point number 13. The vote begins. Point 13 was approved by 102 votes to 22 with 6 abstentions. We're voting point number 14 now. The vote begins. Point 14 was approved by 102 votes to 19 with 9 abstentions. And point number 15, we're voting now. The vote begins. Point 15 was approved by 116 votes to 11, with 3 abstentions. We will now vote on the grouping of 1, 3, 4, 9, 11 and 12, which had requested the CUP. We're voting for this block now. The vote begins. And these parties are approved with 111 votes in favour, 19 votes against. And finally, we're left to vote points 2, 5, 7, which are the rest of the points in the vote. The vote begins. And these points are also approved with 119 votes in favour and 11 votes against. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the policy to put an end to the illegal occupation of habitats]] [[302-00008/13]] Finally, we come to the twenty-three point of the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the policy to put aside the illegal occupation of habitats, which is presented by the Parliamentary Group of VOX. And you have the word to defend it, Mr Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.250.0	Thank you very much, President. Last June 3rd I put to Mr. Elena an inquiry regarding what measures the Department of Interior intended to take to curb the illegal occupation, and that same day 3rd afternoon, Mr. Elena published a personal tweet, which was retweeted by the Department of Interior... – in this it is already beginning to look like Mr. Elena also to Grande-Marlaska, by using official accounts to disseminate personal opinions. Well, as he said, in his tweet, Mr Elena wrote: "VOX has a concept of security that is suitable for the sixties, and today security is many things, such as teaching about new rapes, mediation, or caring for the citizenry. Apart from the fact that the question was not about the security model – which we will have time to do – but about the Okupas, I don't know whether Mr.Elena intended to identify us with the past or show such a typical progression of the left that it consists of mixing everything and putting themselves together with concepts that we all share, such as mediation or citizen attention. Do you want to talk about citizen attention? Well, let's talk about citizen attention. Well, this news is from a few days ago: « Favoritism with the Okupas in Premià. The Mossos quickly evicted an occupied house near Jordi Pujol's, but now that it has already been sold, they do not act. This is a terrible hard face. When the person affected by the occupation is one of his own, Mr. Pujol, they send seven patrols from Mossos d'Esquadra and put the mayor of Premià to lead the eviction. And now that the Pujol clan has sold the house and occupied it again, to the rest of the neighbors who are leaving them. This..., this is called attention, but not citizen attention, but customer care. [[Some applause.]] I remind you once again that the illegal occupation and the mafias of the occupation create crime and insecurity for Catalans. Even if you try to deny it and put your head under the ground like ostriches, every day we are reminded of it in the newspapers, day after day. Look, Diari de Tarragona, May 27th: "A woman denounces the problems caused by the okupas of a building adjacent to hers. Nobody wanted to rent the flat that's their only source of income. "If I lose this rent," he says, "I won't have a way to survive. Diari de Tarragona, 28 May : « Hartura en la Parte Alta. Neighbors can't do it anymore. Robbery, fighting, persecution in the old town. The origin of the problem dates back to the time when groups of extolled young people occupied homes. This news spread on June 9th: "One of these young people who occupies one floor in the street d'en Salinas stabs another in the middle of the street. La Vanguardia, June 3, 2021: « Neighbors of Nou 39 of Rambla, or No. 9 of Om Street, are terrified. They report that the multi-storey Okupas are bittering their lives. A neighbor says: "My son came to live with me because I don't dare go out alone to the stall. Are we talking about citizen care and security now? Because these people..., these people who care for them? Who protects them? I repeat, in case they have not yet entered, that Catalonia leads the illegal occupation ranch in Spain with an increase of sixty_y_seis_per_cent in five years, and currently concentrates forty_y_five_per_cent of the illegal occupations of Spain, doubling to Madrid and Andalusia. What does the Government intend to do about this problem, about this reality? To this end, we in the VOX Group have called for a series of measures in two directions. On the one hand, to defend the legitimate owners of the houses and the neighbours who suffer the consequences of the illegal occupation, of those people to whom I have just referred, who are absolutely desperate. And, on the other hand, it also defends vulnerable people. Because here it is necessary to distinguish, on the one hand, the okupas, who are the ones who enter a house taking advantage of the absence or the defence of the owner, from those others who cannot pay rent or mortgage in a way that has arisen, and who are vulnerable people. The Generalitat has to give effect to its right to housing through the social housing policy, because the occupation and the same affects the public housing park, and harms the vulnerable, and if not to ask the Catalan Agency of l'Habitatge or l'Incasòl, who make hundreds of demands for occupation of social floors. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the okupas and the mafias of the occupation that must be protected, but the ordinary Catalans, just in the face of those okupas, the desperate neighbours, who can no longer endure more and the vulnerable, through an effective and determined housing policy. They use themselves deeply in this, because that is indeed a real citizen's attention. I therefore ask this House to vote in favour of the measures contained in the motion tabled by this parliamentary group. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.251.0	Next, and to defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of Grup Mixt, Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.252.0	Yes, thank you, President. I will make a preview following one of the comments made by the deputy of VOX regarding the serious situation that is being experienced in Tarragona, specifically in the upper part, a situation that has even already been recognized by the government of the City Council of Tarragona, which is in the hands of Esquerra Republicana. I say this in case someone has temptations during the debate to deny the problem that we are experiencing especially in Catalonia and especially with some specific groups. Well, according to data from the Secretariat of State for Security, almost half of the occupations taking place in Spain take place here in Catalonia. And this is not the result of chance; this is the result of the policies carried out both by the Generalitat and also by the Government of Barcelona, by Mrs Colau. I mean, here we have the perfect storm: we have, on the one hand, separatists and, on the other hand, populists. And so, in the end, what he does is have permissive policies with attacks on private property. And not only do we have separatists, on the one hand, and we have populists, on the other; we have some who go a little further, like the masters of the CUP. In particular, the youths of the CUP, who are so nice they, listen, have edited The occupation manual, edited by Arran. The CUP puppies advise on how to choose the house, mock the police, change locks and pinch the light and water, which, apparently, is a very good information – it is a very good information. These gentlemen, Mr de Esquerra Republicana and Mr de Junts, are your partners, with these gentlemen they intend to govern Catalonia. In the hands of these gentlemen you have left the future of 7 million and half Catalans. And that's how it works. It is a veritable defiance that someone dares to publish here a manual giving instructions on how to occupy homes and how to mock the police. These are the gentlemen of the CUP. What is the result? Well, obviously Catalonia leads the number of occupations. It just can't be any other way. And I find it curious how one of these people fills their mouths here saying they fight the evictions, but it seems to them that it seems very perfect that someone should stay out of their house because of some okupas who forcibly enter their home. I find it rather curious, not to say another word. And that's right, while you have the okupas in your house, you keep taking over the water bill, the light bill, the gas bill, everything the okupas spend, in case we don't have enough. And when I'm talking about "okupas, I'm talking about those organized mafias who are dedicated precisely to that, to entering by force into floors of people, of people, of owners such as, for example, Pilar. I don't know if you'll remember that nurse from Vic that during the pandemic she moved to work at a Reus CAP to care for covid patients, at the highest peak of the pandemic, and while she was doing that service, while she was giving that service to the Catalans, it turns out that some okupas entered her house and stayed with her apartment by force, and Pilar went through a real calvary. We want to protect those owners. Here we don't talk about vulture funds or big forks, no; we talk about people who have probably spent their whole lives making an effort to be able to have their floor and see how these illegal mafias occupy their floors and make them pass a calvary. As soon as you get into your house, what's going on? Well, then, absolute defencelessness of the owner and protection, precisely, the one who violates the law. That is, the person who violates the law and enters your house, turns out that he is domiciled there any service and with that receipt they go to the city hall and register it. It's just that it's a real shame. It's that what we can't do is protect the wrongdoer and leave the wrongdoer unprotected. It's just that that doesn't make any sense, it's that already speaking simply of common sense: the Administration has to be on the side of the defenseless, who in this case are those owners who, in order to be able to recover their land, surely have to go through a long and costly judicial process. I insist that this is the world upside down and that we have a duty to protect the one who fulfills; not the one who fails, not the offender, not the occupation mafias. We, from the People's Party, have made it very clear, we must protect private property. Which, by the way, is also talking about freedom: the freedom to leave your home for a weekend with the peace of mind of knowing that when you return there will be no one in your home and you will be able to enter your home. And it is imperative that we make legislative changes. In fact, many of them were already included in the initial text of the motion and that is why we are voting in favour. And I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the proposing group for having accepted our amendments, which were adding something else in this regard. For example, I think it is imperative that we can reform the law and that at twelve o'clock the okupas are off those floors. For that, too, the forces and security forces must be given the necessary legal protection. That, by the way, speaking of the UPC and the manual of the "puppies," to Mr Riera, when in an interview they asked him what he would do if they occupied his apartment, he remained silent and then said the obvious: "Well call the Mossos d'Esquadra. It's just that we don't have to criminalize, it's just that we have to protect, I insist, the owners, give cover to the Mossos...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.253.0	Mrs. Roldán, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.254.0	... so that they can act... – I finish, president –...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.255.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.256.0	... give cover to the Mossos so that they can act and end this abuse once and for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.257.0	Then, to fix her position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialists and Units for Progress Group, Mrs. Eva Candela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.258.0	Thank you very much, President. Very briefly, to justify our vote against the motion submitted for VOX. They present a motion of a very delicate subject and of which it cannot fall into populisms, populisms that generate alarmism. Because, look, there are no different types of occupations and we can't put it all in the same bag. It may be that you're curious and responsible for what we're dealing with. To fight against occupations it is necessary to fight against the poor, social exclusion and that we all have equal opportunities. And you know, Mr. Congressman, when did the occupation of housing begin to increase? So with the policies of dreets, with detail, with job insecurity, with wage cuts and with an increase in the poor. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.259.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the words of Congresswoman Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.260.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, well, with only five minutes we can't go in and argue, not give us time, all twelve points of the young lady. It's not because we don't have to, it's for lack of time. And, basically, what you propose are modifications to the Criminal Code, which we can also technically answer that they are absolutely inappropriate, because according to the principle of last resort – I say this because you are very technical to the motion of last resort of criminal law – so if you already have civil proceedings in civil law, it doesn't mean that we sanction certain conducts through criminal law. I am saying this because you, as well as ordinary people, are so much of the state of law – the democratic and social has already fallen, but you are people of so many states of law – so you should know that technically what you propose to change the Penal Code is not possible. Secondly, what we want to say is that we also want to live safe, we also want to have security in our barrels and in the place where we live, because this has to do with the effort of our working force. And what we're not going to do is that you're getting close to the concept of security, because what this VOX guy does... doesn't talk about this, doesn't talk about security, what you're talking about is "killing the poor people, the people who didn't get out, the people who have been stripped, the people who have lost all the opportunities and who don't have any prospects. And the case... more examples is the case of this concrete proposal that you don't let people register, when you know that ownership is the key to being able to attend to the most basic services. This particular point of the motion is especially dramatic. Who finances and who helps VOX are precisely those who have an interest in keeping this world so unequal and protecting the owners, the banking entities, in short, all the powerful. And this reason that you present is precisely this conservative reaction to protect the interests of the old. The reason for this is to generate contradictions where there are no contradictions. And that's what it's about from the left to fight with all the strength we can. You, falsely, pretend to place the debate between the right to housing and the right to the property of the working people as we do. And this isn't the debate, and we're not going to fall for it. The debate is about the empty floors in the hands of the bank, of the voltorous foundations. And, for another band, we have those who have been kicked out of the system. And in this dilemma, we have clear where we stand. You know perfectly well which side of the scale is situated. We also believe that your young lady is from another falsehood, that the company is watching with alarm and concern the increase of illegal occupation. Well, the alarm and concern will be yours, because we understand that society doesn't get this sense of alarm so great that you say. We don't see demonstrations in places, we don't see people organized in the street. What precisely generates alarm and concern is the constant situation of violation of rights. That's what makes people mobilize and people get out on the street. Because, you, when they talk about alarm and concern, they only talk about headlines, who don't even quote the font or the journals that they can be, about very specific things. Therefore, as you are starting from a false premise, obviously we cannot vote in favour of your motion. And besides, you don't have any kind of sense that you want to pursue through the Penal Code a whole series of pipelines, when your own young man admits that there is a serious problem with housing, that there has been a whole series of quits. So, do you recognize that the Administration in forty years has done nothing and its receipt is Criminal Code? It's just that it doesn't have any kind of meaning. For another band, we would also like to be concrete, because you make a barrage, you talk about occupation, sometimes you add occupation and you add illegal occupation, sometimes you talk about mafias. And as the Socialist Party MP explained, maybe they're a little curious, they're also talking about vulnerable people, and they're clarifying this barrage that you have in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.261.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.262.0	Thank you, President. Well, the first one I'd want to do is lay on the table, so, the criminalizing will we observe in this motion and in its interventions. I think it's no coincidence that in one of the examples that you used, so it turns out that it was an example, so, of some unaccompanied minors, right? Therefore, you always have this idea of trying to criminalize certain collections. We believe that occupations are a problem and that it requires attention and that it takes a careful look at the complexity of this problem, because if not, if we take a simplistic look into which we end up reading, then it's in this unfair situation, isn't it? , of barrig-barreig that now gave us the deputy of the CUP, right? , which ends, therefore, criminalizing. I need to fight this. Look, we'll bring you some data from the year 2017. According to the Cerdà Institute, therefore, throughout the state there were 87,000 families living in occupied dwellings, this is 0.34_per_cent. The approximate number of conflicting occupations is 8,500, this is a 0.03_per_cent of the total number of habitats and a_de_de_de_de_de_occupations. Therefore, you have placed the focus on these percentages. Yeah? Fixed, 0.03_per_cent, 0.34_per_cent. And, on the other hand, they see the 700,000 naked families, but that's not a problem for you; on the contrary, what we've heard from their interventions is that these people who are in need, who are vulnerable and who are in need, what we need to do is to pursue them. And what do we do with them? Shall we leave them on the street? All these families, we leave them all in the street? Are we going to pick them up as fast as we can and leave them all on the street? Is this his solution? Is that his model of society? Because it's obvious that we're not gonna be found here. Some more data. Mirin, of the more than 25 million habitations that exist throughout the state, were reported for usurpation one_of_each_3,500, and in obvious change, right? , that of these 25_million habitats, 3.5_million are empty habitats. And this is the source of the problem: we have people without home, we leave people without home and we have houses without people. That's the question. Look..., and we differed, obviously, a lot of you, because among other things, so, we understand that housing is meant to be a right. And you, and we have seen in the interventions of motions before the length of this late, that you understand habitation as a commodity, seeing also that the habitation market is a highly speculative commodity. So it's obvious that we're in the antipodes. But in any case, when we talk about occupations, we think that we need to differentiate between criminal occupations and occupations of vulnerable families and that we need to fight against mafias and mafias and that we need to take action to fight mafias. But you think, don't you? So, that denouncing vulnerable families faster and faster, so that's going to put up with the mafias, and that's not it; on the contrary, if we go faster to make denominations, we're feeding all mafias related to the occupations that you, too, so much to worry about. But of course, you sweep and convert those who are victims, who are vulnerable families, who end up being victims of these mafias, you place them as if they were part of these mafias. And lastly, I think it's also important that we distinguish between the different crimes on the table. If your habitation is the usual, isn't it? And he's dealing, what's being committed is a domestic rape crime, and in this case it can be solved in twenty-four hours. I'm also saying that because the People's Party companies, so it looks like they've entered a populism competition with VOX companies, too, right? And they're asking us, so, even more restraint, right? , faster in denunciations, and that already exists. If your habitation is the usual denunciation is produced in twenty-four hours. But what you also omit is that the great, vast majority of occupations are not produced on usual habitats, but are produced on empty habitats of benches and large estates. These are the habitats most of which are occupied. To go, other times false the reality. And I end with a few words from a judge, Joaquim Bosch, the spokesman for Justices for Democracy, who explained to us that during his seventeen years of instruction there was not a single case of occupation of first residence and that all the cases he had had were immobile empty of banks or other entities. That's the reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.263.0	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.264.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, lords and lords deputies... Mr Macián, this motion, which I believe is the first motion tabled by the Parliamentary Group of VOX, which is what it seeks..., talks about politics to put an end to the illegal occupation of housing, I am sorry to tell you that it is born condemned. I don't think it's a surprise for you to do that. One of the causes, no doubt, is the famous cordon that they, the separatist bench, together with the PSC and In Comú Pomera, call sanitary; that is, the explicit rejection of the capacity of representation of the citizens of Catalonia that the law and the election result gives to you in this autonomous Parliament. That democratic dysfunction that consists in scorning and trying to isolate with behaviors we can call fascistoids whom they themselves label as fascists. In principle, anyone who dares not commune with the mill wheels that drive at his will the members of the dominant separatism in this Chamber. The rejection of his motion is, above all, because it is his. Look, Mr. Macián, that doesn't happen to some group on the bench on this side, huh? For example, it would be rare for him to go to the PSC. All we have to do is listen carefully to Mrs Romero's speech yesterday in this Chamber to understand why. You see, a spokesman for a supposed socialist government in the shadow that is nothing but the shadow of the separatist government of the Generalitat. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] By their deeds they are known. But they also reject his motion because in Catalonia for years the political leaders of public institutions, both separatist and the present reactionary extreme left, often with the connivance of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, have chosen not to allow the occupation but to promote it. They have achieved that our autonomous community, as you have said, is, by far, the champion of Spain in occupation. Today, through the result of the vote on this motion, they will have had a first contact with the daily reality of politics in Catalonia. Here's what's there for now. I say at the moment because I also believe that the capacity of Catalan citizenship, of Catalans who see with concern the increase in insecurity and social conflict resulting from the occupation, which affects many of our neighborhoods and municipalities, the capacity of endurance, I say, has a limit. And the day will come when the reactionary populism that is practiced by the Government of the Generalitat and the governments of many Catalan municipalities, will be perceived by the citizenry as a ballast for coexistence and a risk for social progress and the normal development of their projects of life in peace and freedom. From the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group we have been denouncing it for a long time, and on occasion we have made some progress in this Parliament, although with little or no impact on real policy, in which it is practiced from the institutions of government, mainly because the autonomous governments of turn, frayed as they are in the construction of their right-wing republic, have ignored parliamentary mandates. They always to their own, that nothing or very little has to do with the interests of the whole citizenry, that has nothing to do with useful politics. You raise in this motion what is probably a more or less literal transcript of your election program. We, Ciutadans, also have a very critical programmatic vision with the status quo of the occupation in Catalonia and Spain as a whole. In fact, some of the measures that you propose in this motion have also been proposed by us in this Parliament and in many municipalities in Catalonia. And some of these measures we have also defended in the General Courts. Perhaps with a less harsh language, I do not know, but in any case no less forceful than the one you have used in the drafting of this motion. Having said that, and to set our position – the position of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group – on the motion for debate and vote, we are going to vote in favour of most of the points it contains, although our final wording would probably not have been fully consistent with yours and we would certainly have given it a multidisciplinary character, because in the case we are dealing with the chronic deficiencies in social housing and the deterioration of many of our neighbourhoods as a result of the null and void political will of the successive governments of the Generalitat unable to articulate a social housing policy in line with the real needs of today's Catalonia. We have not tabled any amendments because it is not a question of supporting your electoral programme either. Nor can we vote in favour of point f, because it may affect the right of defence. We therefore call for a separate vote on item f. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.265.0	Next, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mrs Mercè Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.266.0	Good afternoon, President. Counsel, deputies the deputies. Allow me in my first intervention from this Faristol to be able to aggravate today the opportunity given to me to represent the citizenship of the Catalan people from the Parliament of Catalonia, from this noble chamber and beyond the local world from which I practiced as the mayor since a few years ago, from Begues. And on behalf of President Carles Puigdemont, prisoners and political prisoners, exiles and exiles, and more than 3,300 reprisals, between them the recently accused Councillor of Interior Miquel Buch and Mr Escolà, to provide security to President Puigdemont related to the cause of the U of October, the day we exercised our right to democracy and freedom. Gentlemen of VOX, you do what you do is bar in this case you need, illegal occupation and insecurity. It's been said before. Actually, it's what they get used to doing all the time: barrage, barrage, barrage. They put in the same bag, in the same gout, their top themes. All right, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, In their question last week, they gave several examples, and they respect the government that presides over Mrs. Colau, according to you who has defended the mafias of occupation on numerous occasions. So, please, we don't have to barricade ourselves. No good luck. We don't bark, because we don't share it. When he talks about separatism and about us – the independenceists – he says that we have launched ourselves into this leap without parachutes supporting illegal occupation, tell him a couple of things. Yeah, we're independents. And we know why we have the right to be. Because Catalonia, the year 1714, fought in defense of what was already and what wanted to continue feeling. Because we're already sovereigns, we're already a nation. And if we celebrate that defeat as a victory, it is because we still persist in that struggle. And we have the right to do it and to do it as we do it: in a peaceful and democratic way. And tell him that if we have awakened from that pause, from that stand by, keeping ourselves faithful to that moment of history that we were already, it is because if 'nsha menystingut', he 'nsha groped and did not 'nsha considered when Catalonia we are economic and social motor of the kingdom of Castella. And proof of that is the €16,000_million of Catalans and Catalans who leave every year and do not return to revert to the benefits of our structural improvement and the most vulnerable sectors. And here I go: if we have the possibility to decide and allocate these EUR 16,000 million to the people of Catalonia, to all Catalans and Catalans, they will certainly greatly improve the housing policies that we so much need, as well as social policies, those of territorial cohesion, policies of Sustainability, of Culture, of Economy, of Security, and not to mention the per capita investment of the State that goes to all its territory. Because in Catalonia, the year 2020, has allocated 123_euros per inhabitant, and in Madrid, 188_euros per inhabitant. But sadly, these moneys that are ours are coming in so as not to come back out of the way. But you're still dealing with vulnerability and need with barrel degradation, crime and drugs. And if there is a problem of housing, this is a social problem, a problem that has to be addressed from many areas of government, but not always linking it to the insecurity that you maliciously plant. So, no more rhetorical plantings, please, and out of place. Work for illegal non-occupation. And also, obviously, for the safety of our citizens. But I don't put it all in the same bag, because it's dull and it's also derivative. They do the work they do from the Parliament for Catalans and Catalans with consistency and for Catalonia. Do it right. And that's why the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia would vote against it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.267.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Najat Driuech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.268.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselor, deputies, deputies. Well, this is one of the last interventions of two days of Ple that have been marked by the consequences of housing emergence. It couldn't have been any other way. The diluns was one of the most tragic days that we have experienced in this country in relation to the housing crisis. A tragedy that was preceded by the alarm of last week's finals, when we knew that the Council of Ministers wanted to appeal and suspend the Catalan law containing logger yields, a legislative proposal driven by the Council and the fabric of civil society, which is always acting to guarantee the right to housing. Finally, the strength of left-wing independence and social movements have led to the fact that, at least, it is not automatically suspended. At yesterday's control session, President Aragonès spoke sufficiently on the subject in response to the CUP and also to the Republican Left, he claimed the work done, the willingness to do more and denounced the inability of the PSOE-We can government of the State to put thread to the needle. We have also discussed two motions, this late, of the CUP and of the commons on the right to housing. Access to a decent habitat is one of the main problems that affects our citizens and that is seen every time more aggravated, a problem that we have to put at the centre of our political action and at the centre of our political debate. And yes, it is also a problem of security, in particular how we guarantee the vital, economic and emotional security of those citizens who see their right to access housing as impossible. It is no wonder, therefore, that so many interventions have placed housing at the centre of their political action. What's the difference between what the rest of the forces have done this late and what you've done? Very simple: you don't care about housing, you don't care about citizenship, you don't care about the young people who have to postpone their vital project because they can't emancipate, you don't care about the families who have to spend 70_percent of their own on housing, you don't care about the vulnerable people in our society who live with when someone hits your door because they can do it outside your home, you don't care about the anxiety that so many people are suffering at the time they lose their jobs and that they know they can't cope with the payment of the lodger. No, they only care about their privileges, and that's what they've come to do here, to defend their privileges as citizens, to defend the privileges of the man, the white and the rich, to defend the privileges of the great owners. The other housing motions that we discussed today in this chamber put solutions on the table. We could disagree on how to do it or what to do or who to do it, but it allowed us to have a rich and constructive debate about how we can guarantee the right to housing. In summary, it allowed us to make a useful policy for the citizenry. Yours, no, because you come here to do all the opposite of political action. They just come here to deny politics, to criminalize the citizenry. Councilman Elena, in his inquiry, made it very clear what you came here to do: to pay for the speech of the por and to make the hatred grow. Before the por and odi, before the privilege, before the loss of the right of others, before the fascism they will always find us there; they will find us proposing solutions, shielding the rights of the most vulnerable, working to ensure access to the housing of the city council. And his speech for and hate neither will we legitimize it nor will we set aside a single second to debate his false premises. We are very clear about this, as Umberto Eco wrote in his anti-feixism decade: "Feixism grows and seeks consent that exploits and exacerbates the need for difference. The first cry of a fexist movement, or prematurely fexist, is against the intruders. Before his hatred, politics and solutions; before his by, rights and freedom throughout the city. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.269.0	And now, to pronounce on the papers, has the word the deputy Mr Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.270.0	Thank you, Madam President. The first thing to say to the PSC is that – the public newspaper already says it, huh? – don't talk to me about right-wing policies, because the first Okupa movement against the market economy took place in 84– ruled Felipe González. As for En Comú Puem, I will quote another judge, the judge of Barcelona Roberto García Ceniceros, delegate of the dean judge of Barcelona in the civil sphere, who says that social services take more than two years to deliver a social housing, the social services of Barcelona. You can tell Mrs. Colau as well. Look, on the other hand, at the candidacy of the outrages and the stones, look, I'd ever..., I'd love to be positioned with the ordinary Catalans, not with the criminals, huh? They always applaud the attacks on mossos, the kidnappings of the communities of owners with twenty-eight families and their concierge for hours in order to prevent the eviction of three activists... As for the Criminal Code, the Penal Code to reform sedition and rebellion does, does it? And look, also in relation to Junts per Cat, look, we've come to talk about okupas, not Guifré el Pilós, huh? [[Widow's remorse.]] And as far as Republican Left is concerned, your speech is first in a pamphlet, huh? White and rich, Mrs. Najat, is the Bimbo bread. Thank you very much. [[Greetings and remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-17-0802.271.0	We'll start the vote. We had a separate motion for a vote, the Member expressed it during his speech, the number..., the letter f. Is that correct? [[Pause.]] By Ciutadans. Any other groups want to ask for separate votes? Don't you? [[Pause.]] Therefore, we will begin the vote on the letter f. The vote begins. This point was rejected with 14 votes in favour and 116 votes against. And now we will vote on the rest of the joint motion. The vote begins. The motion was rejected with 21 votes in favour and 109 votes against. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The session's up. Thank you.
