ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.1.0	Good morning. Now that we have all the deputies assigned to the places we have assigned, let's start the session. I would like to welcome the Members to join us, with the changes that have taken place in the past few days in the Government. And before we start, I'd also like to guess a couple of questions. As they must have seen, they must all have found their respect for Parliament's masks. They are fully approved and sustainable masks, reusable, manufactured for the NGO Fundació Portolà, which works to meet the social and labour needs of people with intellectual disabilities and mental disorders. And, therefore, we have them, you have them at your disposal. They are also the ones who allow us the nine measures that, as you must have seen, make the President and the Councillors in a situation a little more comfortable than in previous sessions. And, therefore, following the recommendations of the Health Council and the health authorities, it is clear that we are improving in the measures and returning to relative normality. That's right, it's this mask or the surgical mask that they have to carry to the length of the whole session, in the hemicicle at all times, it's a matter of when they're in the Faristol that, then, as we did when there was the FFP2, then they can use the word without the mask. We will also distribute Parliament's ampoules in order to make water sub-administration more sustainable, because the covid measures have also replaced water germs for single-dose packaging and, naturally, generates, therefore, a volume of packaging and a loss of water that..., and so we use it to water Parliament's plants. But in any case, because all the Members, with the fonts in Parliament, can also use these new ampoules. Celebrate the nines, the good news that allows these measurements, these decreasing data. Still, we have an accumulated number of 22,232 people who have lost their lives to the covid. There are still 530 patients admitted to Catalan hospitals for this disease and 172 people to the ICU. Even so, good news is vaccinations: from first-dose vaccines we already have more than 3,408,000 people and, with the second dose, we already sleep to almost two million people who are vaccinated. These good news should not, therefore, make us lose the rigour in complimenting the measures that have been established in order to achieve the desired normality. In this initial chapter of questions before the session, I would also like to make them guess that the dilluns celebrated World Blood Donor Day here in Parliament. And, therefore, as this year has not been able to bring about the long-standing campaign here in Parliament, I encourage all the Members who can do so to give blood, especially now that, with the onset of summer and during the holiday period, the reservations are used to undermining. As we remember from the Blood Bank, blood is neither bought nor manufactured, it is only a gift. Giving blood is giving life to people who need it. And, therefore, I take the opportunity to convey to you, too, this message from the celebration of the world day that we have done in the past. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] In conformity with the motion 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the rescue operation in the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, I inform you that according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of this year 2021 813 people dead or missing in the Mediterranean have been counted. We also have six feminicides accumulated since the beginnings of the year. But these days we have experienced cases of vicarious violence. And I also want to have a record for Yaiza, the four-year-old girl who died murdered by her mother, and also for her father Sergio and all his family. If we start the session already, they know that the list of questions to answer orally in the plenary is included in the file that was arrived at the beginning of the session. In accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, the first item on the agenda of this plenary session will be the election of the first Vice-President of the Bureau of Parliament, who will be the first item on the agenda. There is, however, an alteration in this order of the day, which I already want to communicate from this moment. In response to the request made by the Government, in conformity with all the parliamentary groups, the proposals that the inquiry into the situation of the economic sectors, which appears as having the order of the day, can be substantiated as the first of the inquiries that will take place this late. Therefore, if there is no objection and as all parliamentary groups have given their assent, can we approve this alteration in the order of the day by consent? [[Pause.]] Perfect. And before we begin, I would also like to say that, in accordance with the agreement of the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen, on the celebration in reduced format of the plenary sessions, even though the situation of pandemic for covid-19, after this first vote, which requires the presence of all Members of Parliament in the Chamber, there are fifty-nine Members who have delegated their vote today, except, as I say, this first point of the order of the day, to which all Members of Parliament are invited. [[Composition of the Bureau of Parliament]] [[398-00001/13]] So let's get to the first point on the order of the day. We will proceed to the election of the first vice president, following the resignation of Mrs. Anna Caula, to whom... we did it last day, but to whom we want to thank her pocket and wish her luck and uncertainty at this new stage she starts. In order to proceed to the election, in accordance with Rule 46 of the Rules, this vote shall be made by means of papers, which shall be deposited in the ballot box which we have prepared for this purpose. According to Rule 44 of the Rules, each Member has to write a name to the paper and it will come out the name that you have obtained a majority of votes. They shall be deemed null and void unreadable papers or papers containing a number of names higher than the requirement, or names relating to persons who are not members of the Parliament. Papers that do not contain any written indication will consider blank votes. I also remind the House that the members of the Government who are parliamentarians and the members of the Bureau will vote at the end. So let's start the vote from number 36, which is Laia Estrada Canon. I pray the fourth secretary, Mr Ruben Wagensberg, that I have started the call of the deputies from this number 36, who correspond to the deputy Laia Estrada. [[According to Article 101.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Members are nominally criticized for being alphabetical because they vaginate at the presidential table and place the papers in the ballot box. The deputies who are members of the Government and the members of the Bureau are called at the end.]] Now, once the vote is over, we will proceed to the polls to find out who was chosen as the first vice president. [[It goes to the polls and then to the countdown.]] The final result of the vote was: Alba Vergés 69 votes, 49 votes in white and 11 votes for María García Fuster. Therefore, she was elected as the first vice-president of the Bureau with 69 votes by Ms Alba Vergés Bosch. I'm asking you to take your seat at the table. [[Perlongats applause. Long break.]] The first Vice-President now occupies her seat at the Bureau as a sign of acceptance of the office. And let's go to the next item on the agenda, ask them with an oral answer to the government. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, we would preach to all the deputies who have delegated the vote, and to make the full reductions in agreement with the covid measures, which abandon the hemicicle. [[Pause.]] Before starting the control session with oral questions, I must say that... (Long break.) [[Ask the Government about the planned actions for the democratic memory]] [[310-00052/13]] A change in the order of the questions was requested, but bearing in mind that we already have all the advisers present in the Chamber, let us begin with the question to the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the actions envisaged for the democratic memory. The question is posed by Ms. Mònica Sales, from the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.2.0	Thank you, President. Councillor Ciuro, in the first place, before asking her the question, she must allow me to congratulate her on her job today who first spoke to the Parliament of Catalonia as the highest official in the Department of Justice. We know that his commitment to the country and to democratic rights is total, and that is why, from Juntes to Catalonia, we would like to share with you a concern that we have many of the Members and members of the Government who are present at this monitoring session. There's a constant soroll that makes an unpleasant freshness and that's too obvious on numerous occasions that makes pheasism and pheasist attitudes glide in our day-to-day lives. And there is also a hesitation, always surprising, when questions related to the Francoist symbolism that still occupies our streets and our spaces will be addressed. We want to show you our absolute commitment to all these issues related to the democratic memory, and we show you once again our firm respect for fascism in any of the conditions and situations. This Parliament has been able to establish with a large majority a democratic rope to prevent it from becoming normal what it is not. But that's not enough. It was the involvement of all the political and social agents in the country. And that's why, Counselor, now that he's starting his way to the department, we'd like to ask him how he's going to address these democratic memory issues and what his position is. We would also like to know who his position is in respect of one of the events that he also generates now: the removal of the monument of Tortosa to the beautiful mig of the river Ebre. Many of us are the Members and Members of the Assembly who have joined the manifesto that recently promoted the collection for the removal of Franco symbols from Tortosa and want to let it know our clear position, at the time that we want you to be able to share yours, to see what is obvious: outside the monument of Tortosa, outside the fascism of space and implacable to put up with these anti-democratic attitudes. He'll let me finish with a few words from Montserrat Roig now that three days ago we remembered he wouldn't have made seventy-five. He said to Diari of a few years: "We are the forced children of the franchise and this we will have to pay for. We do it for her too, tell us we don't want to pay for it, and keep us still in these questions of democratic justice. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.3.0	To answer, the word has the conseller Lourdes Ciuro, conseller of Justicia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.4.0	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mònica Sales. I completely agree with what you are manifesting. We will not tolerate any action, no act of banalization of the fascism. Nor will we act..., we will not tolerate any act of banalization of the Feixist ideology and in..., represented in the apologia of values..., of symbols of democratic values..., anti-democratic, forgiveness. Excuse the nerves. It's the first question, and it doesn't seem like I've ever done it, which is actually the first time. So... [[Some applause.]] Thank you. Let's get back to it. Therefore, we will not tolerate the whiteness of the fascism. We will not tolerate impunity before the apologia of anti-democratic values and their symbols to public space. And we will not tolerate the resounding and loudspeaker of parties and foundations that trivialize the Civil War or the repression of the franchise. This whole thing doesn't fit our society. This councilman is telling you this with all force. And, in addition, we have daily displays that we cannot lower the guard in the deepening of policies of preservation and dissemination of democratic memory. And he gives me a special illusion that the first question is about this, because I will not be neutral or condescending before these attitudes of banalization, as I said, of fascism, for respect above all for the pain and suffering of victims and their relatives. That said, I want to reiterate, first of all, my commitment to withdraw Francoist symbolism from our streets and public spaces. The public space of our peoples and of our cities in no case can continue to normalize fascism. And, obviously, the removal of the monument of Tortosa, the monument to the Battle of the Ebre, will not be an exception. Therefore, we will withdraw it – the compromise is to pull this withdrawal forward – as soon as possible. That's what I'm saying, too, Congresswoman. Finally, I would also like to express to you my commitment to present a draft comprehensive law on democratic memory, which, as you know, must bring together in a single text the forecasts of current standards, and which is already the advance that will be a valid text and that will be a text that will not be neutral nor have it before fascism. Finally, we cannot afford the luxury that according to which actions are perpetual, including in this chamber. We will not whiten the fascism under the umbrella of freedom of expression, we will not normalize its elevation and we will not look at another band when certain entities try to take advantage of legal exclets in order to benefit from public resources. MPs and MPs, defending democratic values won't shake my hand. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.5.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the transfer of skills in housing to the Department of Social Rights. [[Ask the Government about the transfer of skills in housing to the Department of Social Rights]] [[310-00053/13]] The question is posed by Mr Ferran Roquer, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.6.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor Cervera, the first thing I want to do is congratulate her on the first question I ask her. The department that you represent – encapsulate and represent – has assumed the competences of the housing policies of the Government of Catalonia. There is no doubt that the situation of economic crisis affecting broad sectors of society, an economic crisis that has been seen since 2008 but which has worsened due to the effects of the pandemic, has made housing a key element for social cohesion. The denunciations are surely the most visible and dramatic face, but it is also the sensellarism or the enormous difficulties our young people have in emancipating themselves. In recent years, the deployment of housing policies focused on housing payment aids that support vulnerable people and families to avoid denouncements or situations of residential exclusion risk has increased. All of this has generated a dynamic that, in a sense of doubt, has strengthened the conception of housing as a right, as a social right comparable to the right to health or the right to education. And it is indeed difficult to conceive that a society is properly cohesive if access to housing is not sufficiently armored. The public administrations, from the generality to the assembly, must protect with all the measures that are at their abst this right. Not only do they encourage the social promotion of housing, not only by expanding public housing parks, not only by stimulating rehabilitation, but also by articulating mechanisms to respond quickly and effectively to the problems it generates. It is in this sense that we understand the transfer of competence of the department competent in territorial policy to the department competent in social rights. That is why, from our parliamentary group, we want to ask him what concrete reasons the Government of the Generality has taken to make this change of enrollment in housing policies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.7.0	To answer, has the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", social rights advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.8.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mr. Roquer, for this question. In fact, let me say my satisfaction at returning to this hemisphere after three years, of which I was a Member during two legislatures; two very important legislatures for our country. As you said, it is true, in the proper structure decree we will pass the housing policies to the Department of Social Rights. In fact, it is not the first time; housing policies have fluctuated from the department depending on the priorities of the Government of the Generality. They've gone from Social Benestar to territorial politics. They also went to government when we had a preference at the municipal level. And this time, return another time to the Department of Social Rights. And the truth is they're going back to the Department of Social Rights because what we want is to strengthen housing as a real social right. In this legislature we want to put social rights as the fourth pot of the welfare state. We want to place people in the centre of all policies, and we are convinced that housing policies can help us on this line. In fact, in the presupposition of the year 2020, of the Catalan Agency of Habitatage, 56_percent of its presupposition was already destined for social policies, logger policies, housing purchase policies. In fact, since the year 2015, the Generalitat has acquired up to 3,100 properties suitable for the Generalitat. And what we can do in this new legislature is to be able to unify the two services, from the social services to the housing services, that we think can be a good tool to try to fight against these slaves that we sometimes have as a government and against what happens to us sometimes, that we know cases, as badly as last day, in which a person, unfortunately, is killed, and, for which I want to show, on behalf of the whole government, our most felt loss. The objectives of the housing policy department? So try to reduce the noise, reduce the pressure on the emergencies table, also increase the housing stock of the Government of Catalonia, fight against sensoryism, and also contain the price of the logger. But we wouldn't want to stay here. We would not want housing policies to be just policies to try to fight this vulnerability. From the department, what we do is also try to make housing policies for young people and one of the responsibilities that we have also marked as the department is to try to fight against depopulation. We believe that housing policy can be a good tool of a country, a good tool of a country to try to achieve a cohesive country as we deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.9.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the taking advantage of additional resources in a scenario of presuppositional prorogation. [[Ask the Government about the profit of additional resources in a presuppositional prorogation scene]] [[310-00054/13]] The question is posed by Mr. Jordi Munell, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.10.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Good morning, honourable counselors, counselors, deputies, deputies. Honourable Councillor Giró, we are in June and we have heard some parliamentary sound from some opposition groups insisting that, at these heights, we work from the government to draw up a new 2021 premise and subtend 'the approval of Parliament; a premise that would require at these times, in June, a job and an effort that we think can best be devoted to working a good 2022 premise and, above all, devote the current efforts of this new government to addressing the situation of health, economic and social emergence that we are living after, or during the pandemic, and these months that still remain. In contrast to what we have heard from the opposition, the management of the situation of presupposition in which we are at these times allows to make modifications presuppositions according to what is already provided for in the regulation of public finances. Thus, with these presuppositional changes, resources can be prioritized and the additional envelopes needed can be applied to the extended presupposition. In this case, within the margin that leaves us the reference rate of the deficit for 2021, which is of the '1,1_percent of the GDP and which has increased respect to the presupposition extended from 2020, or they can also incorporate resources from those that are previewed extraordinary in the General Presuppositions of the State for the 20-21, for example, therefore, this 1,1_percent of the GDP, unless at these times we still know how they are distributed territorially. In agreement with this, the Government of the Generality has already made the month of generating a contribution, or an extraordinary endowment of 1,800_million euros on account of this additional margin of deficit, and, in February, of 500_million euros on account of this extraordinary fund. In total it is 2,300_million euros. Honourable Councillor, could you tell us what these resources incorporated in the extended budget have been allocated in large quantities? Also of what information available on the territorial distribution of the extraordinary foundations that the State has announced, on behalf of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, and, finally, how it affects this situation of indefinitiveness of the State to the management of the new and more additional resources needed for the citizen of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.11.0	To answer the word, Mr. Jaume Giró, Counsellor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.12.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Well, the elaboration and processing of assumptions requires a medium of twenty-two months to be able to do them, work in time and bring them to Parliament for their approval. As you can imagine, this would happen to us in November, and the cost of opportunity and the same feeling as she advises to work to prepare well for 2022. I also want to say that we do this for a reason, we do it because the public finance law and the first law of assumptions allow flexibility in exceptional situations as we are living that allows us to use all the resources we need, in this case the deficit margin of '1,1_per_cent. This margin of the '1,1_per_cent deficit is concretely 2,530_million euros, of which, at this time, we already have at our disposal, with a credit transfer, 1,800_million euros. Why 1,800_million? Because we can't exhaust the whole amount until 2,530, because, as you know, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, this crisis has also affected the entrances. So, like the tickets have dropped, if we exhaust, if we go to the maximum of 2,530 we wouldn't make a deficit of 1.1 but we would make a much bigger deficit. But we're taking advantage of all the resources, the margin of deficit. We will also benefit Europeans both the React and the recovery mechanism, resilience when they arrive. And, especially, we will also take advantage of the resources that you mentioned about..., the extraordinary for the communities, that we are pending from the government, and that I am sure that here we will be able to help the socialist group, to what amount it was approved the month of generation – the month of generation; we are at June–, yet it has not been explained how it will be distributed. We trust that it is distributed with criteria, let's say it is fair and proportional, as at least according to the GDP that the country represents, and we also hope that we will know as soon as possible. Yesterday we announced 571 million for Health and Education. That means what I just said is how it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.13.0	Thank you very much. [[Ask the Government about permissiveness in concentrations not authorized at the Meridiana Avinguda in Barcelona]] [[310-00056/13]] He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on permissiveness in concentrations not authorized to the arrival of Meridiana in Barcelona. The question is posed by Mrs Eva Parera of the Group of the Mixed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.14.0	Thank you very much, President. I, with the permission of the alternate government, will ask my question to the elected councillor, who actually has government functions, barely on some. We all know, you know, counselor, that since October 14, 2019, we are no longer speaking in days or speaking in months, we are speaking in years, we are producing such daily in the Meridian. We know that the previous government has had a very permissive attitude with a clear right-wing abuse. This is not a right to the event, it is a clear abuse of this right to the event, and we would like to know what its position is with regard to a question that is causing great damage to the city of Barcelona and to the area's visitors and traders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.15.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.16.0	President, Members and Members; Member, there is no permissiveness with a mobilization that is not permitted, that is not authorized. It is a mobilization that has absolutely all and each of the legal requirements because it can be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.17.0	To answer the question, you have the word Ms. Eva Parera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.18.0	Thank you very much. I understand his words, therefore, that they think to follow with this permissiveness, with a size that already lasts more than 450 nits and that they are affecting hard, not only the lives of the city. I don't know... well, I do know that you have a clear tendency to obviate the laws and to obviate, above all, the resolutions of the courts, but I want to remind you that the Constitutional Court has made it very clear that the right to demonstration is not an absolute right or an unlimited right, and here we are clearly in an abuse of this right. There have been petitions that have been admitted through an administered silence. There have been demonstrations that have not been communicated and where the Generalitat has looked at another song. There have been demonstrations that have been explicitly authorized to ignore the reports of the Urban Guard, that tell them that they are causing trouble, that they are a danger, that they are a serious problem for the city and the city, and that you do not do anything about it. The next adjunct has resorted to these decisions, and you continue. The right to the demonstration is not a right that is asked for a permit for fifteen days and that every fifteen days has been renewed because twenty people paralyze a main artery of the city. That's a shame. And you should be ashamed, and you should be acting in defense of the other citizens of the city who are severely harmed by a manifestation that has no meaning, that no one is forbidding them to do so, that they are being asked to do so in another street, in another place. Right to manifest the tenen, I would only miss, but not in this way and not with these conditions. Therefore, we ask you to act with firmness, above all you, Councillor of the Interior, who has the responsibility, because we are assigning patrols of Urban Guard... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.19.0	Time's up, Mrs. Parera. To answer, the word "Interior Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.20.0	Thank you, President. Just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just-just... "Stay firm and show that you don't have any sense. And, look, the demonstrations have or don't have it in place, not what you think or what I think, but who you call them from. It can't be that we think there are two kinds of demonstrations, which we like and share and which are illegal. No, that's not right. At Nuñez de Balboa, yes, during the pandemic and jumping the standards of the pandemic and the covid, and there yes, and, in change, the 8-M, no, because it turns out that they do not cause how many consequences in the pandemic of the covid; at the Congress of Deputies, no, because it turns out that they violated the sovereignty of Parliament, of the Congress of Deputies, but in change, we seem well and applaud – "freedom, freedom, freedom" – when there are mobilizations that we do share. That's not the color, that's the phone book. And we, as rulers, have the obligation to guarantee the fundamental rights of independent demonstrations, of anti-independence demonstrations, of demonstrations of people who are against pardons, of demonstrations of taxi drivers, of demonstrations of whom they are, whether they please us or not. And this is the key and the obligation: it's a fundamental right and we have the right to preserve it. And when this fundamental right causes consequences towards third parties, what it does is to intervene, effectively, but not with a hard, not firm, with something that is fundamental in the exercise of the fundamental rights, which is the dialog. And this is the compromise that we come to: it's no longer hard, dialect, that seems to us to be the way to resolve the differences and disputes between the citizens. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.21.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on respect for the convictions of students, peers and teachers in the education system. [[Ask the Government about respect for the convictions of students, peers and teachers in the education system]] [[310-00055/13]] The question is posed by Mr Ignacio Martín, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.22.0	Good morning, Counselor. Well, our question today is to see with the news that we have learned from time to time about the activities of the so-called "Catalan NGO", which is named thus, a Language Platform that has done some studies in Valls, Tarragona, explaining that 60_percent of the conversations to the path of the schools and to the exit of the schools are in castle. Language Platform, a hyper-subsidized entity for the Generality and, therefore, paid for absolutely all the citizens of Catalonia, which we represent in this chamber, says that the presence of the castle at the feet of the collèges and at the exit of the collèges is landing and that it is very difficult. Do you share this opinion, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.23.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep González Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.24.0	President, Members, Members... Deputy Martin, before his real problems – have gone from a support of thirty-six Members to six – it seems that they are keen to invent imaginary problems. And, therefore, we... in the world of proposals, we will find ourselves there; in the world of imaginary problems, we will not find ourselves there and we will not devote any of our energy to it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.25.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.26.0	Thank you, Counselor. The idea that someone creates a problem when you imagine from the Generality what they do in an intrinsically bilingual society like Catalan is to try to implement and impose by force a system that is monolingual in Catalan..., it seems to me that who creates a problem is you. Miri, Mr. Counsellor, the presence of the castle at the schools, the alternate use of the Catalan and Spanish language, far from being a terrifying thing, as for you... – it seems that they share the opinion of the Platform for the Language – is an enriching thing. As the father of three sons, Catalans, by the way..., to decadalize, as the people of Platform for Language say, it is only a child or a child who speaks castle, on the contrary, there is nothing more Catalan than speaking castle or speaking catal or speaking all two languages. Bilingualism is the most intrinsically, most essentially Catalan thing we can find. So, the problem I'll imagine he thinks you are. I cease to confuse public opinion by saying that others create problems when what we demand is the defence of individual rights, respect the linguistic rights of the city of Catalonia. Because, I insist, in a bilingual society it is absolutely inverse that someone claims to impose a single way of hearing catalanity. I'm telling you one thing, Counselor: speaking castle is not less Catalan, exactly as speaking Catalan is not less Spanish. This is absolutely retrograde, "nineteen-year-olds, who come from a conception of the nations... You claim to impose a presumed Catalan nation that must be monolingual and claim to expel a fundamental part of our culture, of our society, which is the use of the castle. I insist, the use of castle and català alternates in conversations to the duck and there where there is life between the citizens of Catalonia is enriching and not landing. Stop creating a problem about the language you fan as Volksgeist nationalists... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.27.0	Time's up, Mr. Martin. To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.28.0	In fact, in his intervention he said some winged phrase that even he might agree, much winged, but even he might agree. If you see imposition, we see it as a better language, we see it as a better language, as a better language; if you see it as a tax, we see it as a feminist, green, social and democratic school; if you see it as a tax, we see it as a school free of segregation, a school that does not discriminate, a school free of any kind of discrimination, a school free of any kind of violence; if you see it as a tax, we see it as a school free of segregation, a school that does not discriminate, a school free of any kind of discrimination, a school free of any kind of violence; if you see it as a life tax, we see it as an inclusive school, where everyone has equal opportunity and all the resources needed to train and educate themselves, and to teach themselves, to teach themselves, to teach themselves, to teach themselves, to teach themselves, to teach themselves, to teach themselves, to teach themselves.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.29.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the planning of the 2021-2022 school year]] [[310-00049/13]] He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the planning of the 2021-2022 school year. The question is posed by Mrs Esther Niubó, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.30.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Your Honor. We are about to finish a complex school course that, despite the difficulties, but above all coming from where we came, we value very positively. And from here we want to thank the dedication, the involvement, the effort of the faculty, the directions, the support staff, the administration and the services, and above all the responsibility of the student and the families. But at these times you are sure to make or have to make transcendental decisions in view of the planning of your own school year. Counselor, what can we do about this own course?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.31.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep González Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.32.0	Congresswoman, we appreciate the value that makes this course positive. Actually, I think there has been a course – we share this, we all have to share it – there has been a shared success course, a collection success course and a country success course. We managed to keep the schools safe and the schools opened in an unimaginable course that we had never lived before. And, therefore, this has to serve us as a starting point so that the whole educational community, bringing the best of ourselves, we begin a new stage of the Catalan education system. And this new stage of the Catalan education system must come with the policies that we already have, and above all – above all – with everything that the pandemic has taught us. The pandemic has made us stronger in the sense that we have been much more aware of what is really important and what is really within a school... that is to be done from face to face, with this emotional support and with this orientation and learning by skills more important than ever. Therefore, in view of the coming course, we are facing this new stage of the Catalan education system. What we are clear about is that we need to be able to transform the education system structurally, where this innovation or continuous improvement, learning by skills, reaches all the centers of the country and at the same time, as it cannot be otherwise, is inextricable from equal opportunities, equity and the struggle against segregation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.33.0	To answer the question, you have the word Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.34.0	Thank you, counselor, for your answer. We seem to be leaving the worst of the pandemic behind, and that's good news, but the social and economic crisis that was going on has also left consequences. Today, for example, we see hard effects on the mental health of many young and young people. We have data that there has been an increase of 25_percent in the number of disruptions and addictions among the adolescent population, along with a very large number of queries by states of anxiety and, at last, suicide attempts. In fact, President Aragones has compromised the Tauli Park of Sabadell with mental salvation, but we do not know how this, this compromise, will translate into reality. And that's why we want to ask you how many of us support professionals will have our own course at the Institutes, which is going to increase from the EAP plants of the educational centers. And we're asking him why on the extended assumption, so we don't see these resources. On the other hand, and although you have also announced that we will not go back to the pre-covet school, the reality is that they continue to close P3 lines, that they miss the opportunity once more to make a general reduction of rates that improves the quality of education, and to practice, we are realizing, and that you allow, different rates depending on the title of the educational centers in the same educational area, which therefore generates more inequalities. Counselor, how will the proper course of the Covenant against Segregation be applied? And another question we're worried about. You have completed a classification of educational centres based on their complexity based on pre-pandemic data and this will reduce their student support resources, above all the staff, their own course. We ask you, counselor, that I avoid any new detail in Education. I remind you that your department is reversing the same thing that you did years ago in Education, when there are actually 150,000 more students in these moments in the classroom. Don't take any more details and convince your government of the importance of investing in education, such as the pillar of progress, equal opportunities and cohesion. We wish them luck and good work. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.35.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.36.0	Well, then, thank you for wishing me luck; my luck will also be the fate of all, eh? So I answered him quickly, but I did touch on all the issues he raised. Emotional education, yes, it is one of our priorities, to accompany our young people in this emotional education in moments of pandemic. Faced with the coming course, we keep the additional resources we have in the education system. We keep the eight-thousand professionals, we keep the bet for the deployment of the digital education platform and we keep the bet for the better educational opportunities platform, because we have to be on the side of the most vulnerable and being on the side of the most vulnerable is to improve the whole education system. For what he does to the offer reduction. In any case, here I do explain a little, because this..., in front of this course 21-22 we did something that had never been done, that is that we have 3,200 children less at the entrance of the system, to P3, and we have not reduced P3's offer. What we have done is keep the same offer of P3 and to avoid segregation, we have reduced the rates to twenty-three, twenty-two and twenty-four in the north of a municipality, in whole or in part, with 651 schools and with 1,200 groups of P3. So, we do what you ask us to do that we do, before a demographic download, we reduce... [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] That's it. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.37.0	Time's up, counselor. [[Ask the Government about the situation of industry and labour disputes]] [[310-00050/13]] He asked the Government to respond orally in the plenary on the situation of industry and labour disputes. The question is posed by Mr Pol Gibert, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.38.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Conseller Torrent, let 'begin to congratulate you publicly for your appointment as Conseller of Enterprise and Work. You're wearing the two strokes of the same coin, all the time we haven't seen so far, and so we want you to be very uncertain and also announce that we'll be very attentive to your actions. That said, I wanted to ask you what nine measures you intend to set aside your department in order to avoid the industrial closures that we are seeing in many regions of Catalonia and which pose in danger thousands of jobs in the territory.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.39.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.40.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. I am convinced that what they will be aware of will be complete and, therefore, we may not only explain all the government action we are doing here in Parliament, but we will work closely together at a few moments when they are responsible; they are responsible for the country's industry, indeed. We come from a period with a strong fall, with strong declines, especially obviously derived from the pandemic situation, with a drop in the gross value added of 9_per_cent or the industrial production index of 10,1_per_cent by 2020. But we have also entered a year, 2021, and we are seeing it in these months, in the conjunction of the indicators, where this economic recovery and especially of the industry sector is demonstrated. The whole sector? No, no, There is a part of the sector, especially the automotive subsector, which does not have the same results, because the conjunctural situation is compounded by the structural problem of a subsector that has to make evolution, a transition to decarbonization, an evolution to the electric car. And we want to accompany this transition. We need to do this from the Administration, from this Parliament, that we can still help this sector across the value chain to adapt to the new reality. Therefore, from the department, from this government, what we want is to focus on those tractor sectors of the industry to help them adapt to the situation and to take over the joint of the country's industry. And we have to do this, I insist, in collaboration with the Parliament of Catalonia, but especially with a tool that is the National Pact for Industry, which, a few days ago, by the mouth of the Secretary of Enterprise, the department has already announced that we will start working.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.41.0	To answer that question, Mr. Pol Gibert has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.42.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Torrent, I would like to thank him for his explanation, but I have already said 'new measures, and I have focused on new ones, because the old ones already know them and we also know their great limitations for what he does to industry and you have already done a fairly accurate description of how industry is in our country. Catalonia has lived and is living tanks before the pandemic, during the pandemic and also at the exit of the pandemic. And what we see is that while Europe is firmly committed to industry, here we are seeing a very limited industry assumption and every year detailed. And you seem – and I have already reaffirmed with some previous question – that they do not want to make us presuppositions, because they trigarian, according to I understand, twenty-two months, which has surprised me enough. Without us, we are following with fewer resources for the industry, with very few resources. Why? That's my question. Why are they self-limiting in their ability to do more for Catalonia and industry? Meanwhile, companies like Nissan, Tyco or Bosch follow their way to the tank, while the government has a hand attached to the board. And like Bosch, a German company that, among the group of companies that has come from the state, has decided to close in two years that it has located in Catalonia. Casualty? They don't know. But I have had the opportunity to follow the situation of Lliçà and Castellet, and after different conversations, one thing I do know: it is that, to be sure, Bosch's staff is used to making great sacrifices to keep the plant on track. He's done it historically. Now perhaps it's time that, after decades of staffing efforts, the government is also doing the best it can to prevent the closure of a historic plant in the Eastern Valley. We already advance our group's support in any way to explore because it is not so much this plant or any other in our territory, but we also advance our maximum requirement to deploy the government's skills and resources to raise industry and its workers. Counselor Torrent, be brave; prove that it will be better than your predecessors. It won't cost them much. The Catalunyas will appreciate it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.43.0	To answer, has the word Business and Work Counsellor
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.44.0	Miri, deputy, as I said, the department's will is twofold. On one side, obviously, accompanying in the locking processes, avoiding or minimizing the negative effects of these lockings, and therefore this is a reactive action before the situation. We have done so in the midst of the crises of labour disputes that have been given to the country in the last few months. We did so in the case of Nissan, we also mediated in the case of Robert Bosch, as you said, and so many other cases in which we met, obviously, and we worked together with the business committees. Certainly, some committees of enterprise that, systematically, all of them, claim the repeal of the labor reform, which would help to legitimize again the labor authority in Catalonia and, therefore, to be able to participate in the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.45.0	Time's up, counselor. [[Asks the Government about measures to protect health professionals]] [[310-00051/13]] He asked the Government to respond orally to the plethora on measures to protect health professionals. The question is posed by Mrs Assumpta Escarp, of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.46.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Tell the WHO that interpersonal violence is a risk factor for health, and that's what we all agree on. Only at the ICS, in the year reported four hundred complaints of attacks on professionals. We don't have data on the system, and besides, it's calculated, and they tell us, that half the attacks aren't reported. Violence on the part of the users generates work losses, absenteeism or the margin of knowledge, so here we have a problem. We have a lot of protocols. Believe me, I've read a few of them. Maybe they're massive, but we don't have a protocol that covers the whole system, an integral plan to address violence against professionals across the ICS and Siscat system. Each center has its own protocol. The addresses of the CAPs do not know what to do and there are no prevention measures, especially at the infrastructure level. But what seems harder to us is the failure of all systems of supervision, legal and psychological assistance, and leaving professionals in absolute helplessness and unprotected. Counselor, will you consider the approach to attacks on professionals a priority? Do you think we're giving a good answer?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.47.0	To answer the word, Mr. Josep Maria Argimon, Salut advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.48.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs Escarp. Obviously, this is a priority, and we're always on the side of professionals. Certainly, the issue of aggression is on the rise. I would not agree entirely with some of the statements you made, with the fact that there is no attendance or that the address or addresses of the institutions are not at the side of the professionals. What we do know is that these attacks, I repeat, increase. At the ICS – surely the data you have, or that you have, is a little earlier – the year 2020, and which was presented in sectoral months, or so, which is the social part, was almost a thousand attacks. These attacks, moreover, are more frequent in primary care than in hospital, it's a three-to-u relationship. That, at times, of what the professionals are, when we talk about primary care they are, above all, faculty and, mainly, also administered and, in change, hospital are more the part, let's say, of infirmary. And there are always verbal assaults, mainly verbal, on physical violence, with a relationship of three to u, but three to u when we talk about a thousand means that practically two-hundred_five hundred are physical assaults or good verbal assaults with real threats. So that's a problem. There's the envelope. Obviously, the protocols that they indicate are that you have to let everyone know what the address and legal advice is. Sometimes, it is also difficult, certainly, that professionals, sometimes, themselves want to report.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.49.0	To answer the question, the lady assumes Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.50.0	Certainly, counselor, I'm glad I'm giving the dice because they're still more negative, so to speak. Professionals tell us to ignore the circuits, but above all we have it in the CAPs. Mobility in the CAP addresses does not help to have this training. Here's a subject, on the subject of advice and legal recovery. Businesses would have to act as a private prosecution and achieve, among other things, that the criminalization was for assaulting the professionals. There is another aspect that is reintegration into work. This is a subject that also presents us with many complaints. The attackers are recidivists, and this is also proven. In fact, the College of Metges has already proposed to us to create an observatory – which we have not done – on occupational violence. Then there's a subject that I, personally, am very concerned about, which is gender-based violence. Because 64_percent of attackers are men, but 75_percent of attackers are women. And verbal rape is also rape. And, therefore, we have to encourage that there is no underreporting, and, therefore, to have, say, the actual data of which is what is happening to us. I think... they were looking at my time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.51.0	That's right, he's back down to two thirty, as if disposed of all the time, Mrs. Escarp, which it's obvious he didn't have.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.52.0	I appreciate your detail, but I admit I'm not right. [[Strong laughs.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.53.0	Thank you very much. [[The joker laughs.]] To answer the word has the councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.54.0	Look, we're... I think we're totally on board with this. The observer, in the whole health system, is an element that we can pull forward, I think it's a good initiative to pull forward. Also pull awareness forward, because this is very difficult, and we have to put ourselves at the expense of the professional when he has received an assault that, obviously, I insist, the institutions place at the bottom what is the legal council and the legal escort, and not only the lawyers, but also what are the directions, but also understand that it is sometimes to report and be in a court of law before your attacker at half a meter. No, I'm saying this because it's hard to do many times, and here we also have to do pedagogy and among all of us I think we'll get it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.55.0	Thank you very much. [[Ask the Government about measures to put aside the waiting lists of dependency]] [[310-00043/13]] He asked the Government to give an oral reply in the plenary on measures to ensure that the waiting lists for dependency were put on hold. The question is posed by Mrs María Elisa García, of the Parliamentary Group of VOX.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.56.0	Thank you, Madam President and Members. Counselor Cervera, what measures do you have planned to put an end to the tearing down of waiting lists of persons pending dependency benefit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.57.0	To answer the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", social rights advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.58.0	Thank you very much, President. The law of dependency is from the year 2006. In fact, its full title is the law promoting personal autonomy and the care of dependent people. In fact, it was a law that was intended to be the right of any person in a situation of dependence to access public services. At these moments they enjoy these services more than 168,000 people, and it's true, there are waiting lists, which is one of the objectives and one of the keys of our department.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.59.0	To answer the question, has the word Ms. Maria Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.60.0	Mrs Cervera, you usually use the Spanish Government as a scapegoat to justify your poor management and your inexcusable ineptitude towards the Catalans, but you no longer deceive anyone. And, therefore, we would like citizens to use their minutes of response out of respect to propose solutions and not to throw balloons out. Councilwoman, among all the autonomous communities, Catalonia has the sad honour of leading the list of dependents waiting for help. Specifically, according to official data, 73,386 people expect the Government to lend a hand in December 2020. They also have the terrible indignity to flag the list of deceased dependants while waiting for help: 10,769 people. Thirty people die a day in Catalonia waiting for a gesture from the government. But since there are no two without three, I put another data on the table: 576_days, almost two years, is the average time that in Catalonia it is difficult to process a dossier of dependence. And the truth is that we are not surprised, because Catalonia is the community that leads the political spending, with more than three hundred salaries of members of its executive and advisors who exceed in salary the president himself of the government. She is also a leader in waste in embassies and ridiculous several outside our borders, and with the most burdensome audiovisual media corporation in Spain. Madam Counsellor, Mary, seventy-four years, sixty-two percent disability, is waiting. Meanwhile, the Generalitat spends money on divulging, inside and outside Catalonia, a rupturist project that does not matter to anyone more than four imprisoned criminals or their entourage and putting in secretariats, advisories and managers to their client network, such as Mrs.Cesca Domènech, wife of ex-advisor Buch, now placed in her own social rights council. In short, Catalonia has become the worst managed autonomous community in Spain, and that is the responsibility of all the governments that since 1980 have been in their dream and in the embezzlement of public flows. Counselor, less independence and more attention to dependency. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.61.0	To answer, the social rights advisor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.62.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. In the first place, just a point. In Mrs Cervera, no « Cervera. I mean, I'd appreciate it if my last name at least kept him and said him right. Miri, the law of dependence is the paradigm of the relationship of the State with the Generality of Catalonia, a fantastic relationship that takes us a long time ago to be one of the most punished autonomous communities, precisely for the Spanish State. When the law of dependence was approved, the year 2006, this law was strongly challenged for Catalonia, not only for some parties in Catalonia, but also for many entities in the third sector. Among other things, it was an ill-planned law, poorly funded law, and which, moreover, engulfed the generalities of Catalonia in social affairs. That's the first point. Second point of the law. The law provides for 50_per_cent of the benefits to be paid by the State, and at these times the State only paying 14_per_cent of the benefits. I would ask you that since you are the guarantors of the defense of the law, defend the law and defend its financing. I agree that we must try to reduce the waiting lists, and in this we will strive and work, but if they want to give us a hand, if they want to give a hand to Catalans and the citizens of Catalonia that at these times, therefore, they are patenting because they cannot acquire these benefits for the law of dependence, claim to the State the financing that is near us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.63.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the dam and the reconstruction of cultural activity]] [[310-00046/13]] He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the dam and reconstruction of cultural activity. The question is posed by Mrs Irene Aragonès, of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.64.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor, the cultural sector has been valiantly affected by the adverse consequences of the pandemic, the lack of a very touchy and double-punished sector, but it has also made it clear that the value of culture is instrumental in consolidating the foundations of cohesion and social inclusion and the individual and collective well-being. The Generalitat has mobilised resources to support the cultural fabric, a revival plan with more than €50 million and €8.9 million in a specific line of support for the professionals of culture. An important effort, even more so when we compare it to the inaction of the state government, but we know that it is insufficient. During the confinement episodes, culture has brought inspiration, comfort and hope to people's lives in the most difficult times. I want to acknowledge the tireless work of many gatherings, mayors, governors and directors, and also volunteering, who have shown their courage, their commitment and a clear bet programming culture and also, obviously, ensuring that it is safe. And it must also be the resilience and commitment of the professionals of culture, both entrepreneurs and locals, who have been marked, even more intensely, for precariousness and intermittence. I think it's a duty of the institutions to ensure them decent work rights. Now is the time to redefine and rethink and review cultural management structures and decision making mechanisms to adapt and update them to the citizenry, which calls for institutional coordination, transparency, evaluation of results and participation. So we have to be able to build a real system... [[Pause.]] Now I'm lost. Sorry, I don't know if they're staying... 30 seconds? Yeah? [[Pause.]] Okay. So I didn't go out of the olla. Excuse me. Counselor, it is of vital importance, therefore, this dam, which is done with the highest possible speed to ensure this sector's stability and survival. That's why we're asking him what the department is planning to do to cope with the reconstruction of the sector and recover the culture as the driving force of a free and committed citizen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.65.0	To answer, has the word the lady Natàlia Garriga, Counsellor of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.66.0	Thank you, President. Benvolguada MP Aragonès, from the Department of Culture we are very aware of the difficulties that the cultural sector is going through and of the urgency in the recovery of the activity. In fact, this is one of the department's priorities that is backwards to the parliamentary agreement. For this reason, and before the best of the epidemiological context, we have already begun to work for the gradual recovery of cultural activity this summer. As of today, 70_per_cent of outages have already been increased, the working hours have been changed and the restoration in cultural spaces has been reopened. These measures have also been complemented by the recovery of major parties and the rollovers, always under the appropriate security measures to avoid crowding. Even so, as I said, honourable Member, there are still sectors with difficulties in developing the activity with a certain normality. For this reason we will briefly present the update of the plans and protocols that will allow us to return to culture safely to our places and municipalities. We are working in a coordinated way, as it could not be in any other way, with the Department of Health and the Interior, but also with the hand of the cultural fabric, listening to its specificities and offering them all the support, as we are already doing at this time in the castle or with music festivals. The recovery of the activity is simply a first step, because what really needs to be reconstructed is one of the sectors most affected by the pandemic, which was already based on severe structural deficiencies, both in the production of its creators and artists as in its financing. Therefore, it is not valid in any way to return to March 12, 2020. This will be achieved if we understand culture as a foundation for building a creative citizenry, a critical citizenry and an empowered citizenry. In order to promote this reconstruction of the Government of the Generality we have committed ourselves to the length of the legislature to allocate to it a 2-per-cent of the premise of Culture, which will place us, in Catalonia, as one of the two European countries with the most inversion per inhabitant. We will also consolidate the cultural community as we find and unite between the government and the local world, and work to ensure the right to access culture through a law of cultural rights and policies. MPs and MPs, we will do all this, above all, by changing our eyes and questioning everyone. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.67.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on relations with the Aran. [[Ask the government about the relationship with Aran]] [[310-00047/13]] The question is posed by Ms Marta Vilalta, of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.68.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillor, it's June 17th and it's the Feast of the Aran, the day when it commemorates the restoration of the highest Aran institution in 1991, the General Council of Aran, and they are therefore thirty years old. And that's why I want to start this intervention wishing the spiders and the spiders a good day of the Feast of the Aran. We take advantage of this day and this ephemeral to manifest the need to continue to reinforce the recognition of the national reality that is the Aran Valley and also to defend the Aran and contribute to its normalization. In fact, we have done so until now, among others with the approval of the 2010 Law of the Occupy, orange to the Aran, that has converted the occupy into official language to all Catalonia, or also with the approval of the Law of the special rule of Aran, for this same Parliament, the year 2015, that allows to absolve a higher level of self-government and to adapt the General Council of Aran to the new needs and aspirations of the contemporary Aran society. And now, counsel, therefore, is the moment of compromise with the unfolding ambitions of this law, the law of the Aran. Actually, we don't understand it any other way. We are a diverse country, a plural country, that recognizes historical rights and all national and linguistic identities and cultures. In fact, we are a country that has no problem in basing common projects on consent and not on coercion; in fact, we base collective and common projects on respect and not on taxation. That's why when we're talking about governing the whole country, we're doing it on the basis of this diversity, its diversity, the diversity of this country. Show of this compromise and will was, last week, the visit of the President of the Generality, Mr Aragonès, when he made the first visit already to the Vall d'Aran. And today I encourage you, she will advise, to be able to work intensively to strengthen this institutional cooperation so necessary with the Vall d'Aran and also so vulgar. And sometimes we also say that republicans and republicans are aware that much work remains to be done, especially in the use and promotion of the Occitan language, but that we are completely compromised, as we are convinced that the government is. [[For all this, counsel, what are the actions of this Government in relation to Aran, now its national recognizance and then defence of this Occitan language?]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.69.0	To answer, has the word Laura Vilagrà, adviser of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.70.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mercès, Congresswoman. And good morning now, the rest of the members of the aguesta crampa, and especially the Aranesi and Aranesi. Well, as you know, on June 17th, it is the Hista d'Aran, which effectively celebrates the restoration of the General Council of Aran; 157 years after its abolition in a royal Spanish cell has been restored institutions, the recovery of self-government, stop elections in 1991. And, in fact, thirty years after this restitution, there are still challenges ahead: respecting the differential fact of the Aran, deepening cooperation, dialogue, loyalty and institutional respect, which are fundamental elements. And that's why President Pere Aragones made one of his first territorial institutional visits to the Aran. He qualified that moment of inflection to deepen our commitments as a chamber and as a government in the deployment of the law of the Aran, also in advancing in the linguistic policies of protection of the Aran and the occident. In fact, many of you, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, approved some of these two laws. In fact, orange, obviously, is a treasure, for us, that we must preserve. And finally, activate this bilateral work commission between the government and the Aran union. This you said we'd be back at the Feast of the Aran. In this case he will be the secretary of local governments and of the Aran who will have the representation of the Generality. And it's obvious that the Aran's reps are the reps of the Presidency Councillor. We will have the opportunity to deepen with the syndicate, Mrs. Maria Vergés, this joint work space. And, therefore, the objective of the Council is nothing more than to effectively make the Government of the Generality an open government, working with the institutions of the self-government of the Aran, and obviously with the conjunction of the local governments. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.71.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in the plenary on departmental policies to minimize waste production and boost the circular economy. [[Ask the Government about the Department's policies to minimize waste production and boost the circular economy]] [[310-00048/13]] The question is posed by Mònica Palacín, of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.72.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I think we agree that we are obliged to make a change in our relationship with our natural environment and to understand that our existence is radically linked to our conduct in this environment and in the way we deal with it. Behaviour towards production, consumption and management of waste generated has effects on the environment for which we alone are responsible. The Republican Left has always been committed to giving a response in the context of public, energetic, environmental, sustainability, public health, economic, welfare and quality of life policies that enable us to make decisive progress towards the absolutation of the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations 2030 Agenda. A paradigm shift respects the management and treatment of waste because despite Catalonia has made an innovative and ambitious law at the time, it has been elongated by the current needs and the territorial and sustainable balance. It is essential to establish comprehensive measures throughout the life cycle of the product and of the same waste as resources to be taken advantage of within the circular economy system. The management of residues in order to move towards zero is to be carried out from the original ecodisseny to the final stage of the residue, through the extended responsibility of the producer and the guarantees of recovery and recycling of everything that is placed on the market. In short, on July 3rd, the sale of any plastic product of a single product using European directives will be prohibited, but beyond that, the new legislature will have to assume the work and approval of the legislative marks necessary for the management and treatment of residues, with the aim of zero residue, and, obviously, to resolve short-term, medium-term and long-term all the problems that the final treatment of these residues has generated, with a great environmental impact, to incinerators and feeders. Councillor, what has your department planned to boost the circular economy and ensure the minimization of the generation of waste? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.73.0	To answer, has the word Ms Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.74.0	Thank you very much, President. President, advisors, advisors, deputies, deputies... Deputy Palacín, we always agree, and I don't know how happy I am, say so. The truth is that I also explained it at the next plenary session. Catalonia has many reptes in the media, without any doubt. In fact, we are immersed, and it will convince me, in a profound ecological crisis in this sense, and we can't wait, in fact, for a second more, to approach it immediately. And in this sense the announcement that from the Climate Action Council, Food and Rural Agenda, which I have the honour to encapsulate, we are working urgently to bring here to Parliament two laws; two laws that basically have to serve us, first, to minimize the production of residues, as it cannot otherwise be..., and the other, important, also, to boost, as you rightly pointed out, the circular economy. In fact, the goal is simple, it's to end the practices of a used_sol– this is a clear, diaphanous goal– and, obviously, to recover the culture of reusable packaging. He remembered us, too, and he set the date, huh? : in less than one month Europe will prohibit the sale of any plastic product of a used sun. Catalonia, I remember – I like to do so – that we were pioneers in the elimination of plastic bumps. Now let them make it, let them advance us again, let them become pioneers. For this reason, the first law we want to bring here to Parliament will be the packing law, in this case. It is necessary to reduce, as you said, excessive packaging, and, allow'mdir, also, absurd, that they automatically become residual. And we obviously prefer returnable packaging with a much longer life. And the second, the law of residue, extremely important; a law to regulate publicly the brush, without any doubt, from a glance of the circular economy also, and to take advantage, therefore, of the organic fraction to convert it, as you also pointed out, into an actiu. Members and Members, we commit ourselves to it, cannot be otherwise, and we say it loud and clear: Catalonia has to take a firm step and much decided on the zero residue. So, enough to use and pull, enough of extremely unnecessary packaging in fruit fish, in muffins, in muffins that when you've opened them you've already wanted, to hear us, huh? ; enough drops, dishes and plastic sticks. We need to recycle, obviously, but above all we need to learn, if we are allowed, to reduce, reduce and reuse. That's to say, they already know; it's not exactly cleaner than cleaner, but it's much cleaner than less brute. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.75.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the forecasts for addressing course 2021-2022. [[Ask the Government about the forecast to face the 2021-2022 course]] [[310-00044/13]] Asks the question Mr Jordi Jordan, of the Parliamentary Group In Comú Pom
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.76.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, we finish a very complicated school year, marked for the pandemic. The whole educational community has made a great effort before the exceptional situation in which it has touched our lives. There are, however, many uncertainties in relation to the coming course. What's the use of the mask in class, huh? Are you going to download the student ratio for the classroom? What resources do we allocate to it? Can you tell us what the forecast is with regard to all these aspects and with regard to the overall planning of the coming course?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.77.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep González Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.78.0	President, MPs, MPs... thank you, MP Jordan. The next course there are some..., what we have done in front of the next course is to send to the educational centers a plan of action, so that they can take their organizational measures, so that they can organize themselves. From here, and with the resources of teachers and teachers and administrative staff, and of auxiliary staff, complementary to and with education..., having all the resources, what each centre does is organize itself. The theme of the mask use, huh? , which is a very concrete theme..., it is a competence of the Department of Health, so define the use of the mask. And, therefore, when you communicate with the Department of Health, then we will act in the educational centers, as we have always done, going hand in hand with the Department of Health. For what he does to the routes, he said before, we'll have fewer routes to P3, much lower routes to P3. Because we have reduced the ratios to 1,200 groups, almost 50 percent of the P3 groups have decreased the ratios. We've kept the groups, and we've reduced the rates, in order to make a balanced distribution of the student. Some other fears that... well, I'll leave it here, because if I don't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.79.0	[[The president laughs.]] In answer, Mr. Jordi Jordan has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.80.0	Miri, Mr. Counsellor, we are certainly leaving the pandemic a short while ago, from a health point of view, but the economic and social situation that many families in the country are going through is still very difficult. The education system must be more than ever a guarantee of fairness. We need to take advantage of the covid crisis to allocate more resources to it. But that doesn't just have to be speeches and words, but facts. The rates we had were already excessive and the teaching was insufficient. These days, many directions from all over the country, from primary to secondary, are already complaining that they are increasing again in place of decreasing. We ask you again to resume the process, prioritizing and strengthening the public system and not the concerted one. Now – now – is the time to hire more teachers, to recover the labor rights of this collection, which still take part in the retailing. We also have to question the requalification of high-complexity centres, the most fragile in the country, with reports and data based on the 2018-2019 course, which are all about the current crisis situation. Sixty-six centres will lose resources for this decision. That's why we're also asking you to rectify. Now is also the time to allocate more resources for the mental salvation of our young, apostant, if necessary, for the psychology, for the figure of the public psychologist. For what he does to our group, he will always find us in everything that means putting more resources to strengthen the public education system of our country, to ensure the fairness, therefore, of the citizenry. But also, if you reduce investments and resources, know that you will find us in front of you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.81.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.82.0	Thank you. Now I'll answer with headlines, so don't pass me the one before and be able to answer everything you said, huh? Therefore, I will go straight to the top. He explained it very well. We have more vulnerable students than we had before the pandemic. And the students who were vulnerable, they're still more vulnerable. And, therefore, here we have to put ourselves; we put ourselves there, we would dedicate all our firmness, strength and resources, all that is possible. Complexity centers, thanks for taking this up and taking advantage of it, too, for the lady Niubó who had asked. What we have done, what the Higher Evaluation Agency has done, with data from the Idescat, is to update this classification of complexity centers. With this update of the classification – which, I insist, are the same criteria that we follow, which were followed four years ago – there are more complexity centers, there are more resources for complexity. The thing is, he's changing the distribution. We have 214 complexity centers, which until now have not been. They'll have all the resources. And 175 centers that, somehow, with objective data across the country, with Idescat data and with this reclassification, what they do is lower complexity classification. What have we done, in addition? What we've done is... no one from these 175 centers is left without the resources of complexity. We will take a step up of these resources and the coming course will continue to have part or all of these complexity resources. Ratios every year..., ratios, yes. Don't increase the ration. Diagonalize students, group push and what we do is download an entry into the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.83.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the Service of the Emergency Care and Management Centre 112 Catalonia]] [[310-00057/13]] And the last of the questions to the Government to answer orally to the Ple, about the service of the Center of Attention and Management of Urgència Trucades 112 Catalonia, the formula the lady Laia Estrada, of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle to Win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.84.0	Thank you. Counselor, could you tell me what medium of tricks stop being attached, it's still day, week or month, 112?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.85.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.86.0	Well, at 112... First I want, if I may, to begin by thanking the workers of 112 for saving lives with their diligent work and avoiding disasters. And from this point of view, they haven't had an easy year for various circumstances that we'll probably talk about. To us, the number of..., the half of tricks that cease to obey..., we understand that, for the work that is done since 112, all the tricks that are carried out are carried out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.87.0	To answer the question, you have the word Laia Estrada.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.88.0	Yeah... look, no, it's not true. Unfortunately, it's not true. They're losing tricks. I couldn't find the exact cipher and that's why I was asking you, to see if I could provide it. We will continue to investigate, but we understand that it should be a public jihad. Basically, because it's an indicator that this service doesn't work like it should, taking into account what exactly you were saying, the cable import of this service. And that same thing, that this service doesn't work as a boiler, is what led the workers of 112 to call a day off the vigil of Sant Joan, given the difficult situation in which they find themselves. The failure of the last company was only the drop that made the gout tick, but the situation is unsustainable from years ago. And the explanation is simple. When a private company manages a public and essential service, it does so by thinking about getting as many benefits as possible at the cost of lowering costs in terms of working conditions and service quality. And we can see that on a day-to-day basis, what's going on in 112. We see, for example, how companies find them much more, so let them lose tricks – let them get lost – or let there be a time of hope that it is unacceptable. And they are more likely to pay the penalty that they carry, these figures, that they do not activate the guards that will heat because the service works as it should. This lack of staff, moreover, is reflected in an overload of the workers, which makes them unable to attend to the quality that would be warm, because they are under great pressure and stress. And now, this overload makes it precisely that many tricks are lost. Or simply, that you have lost tricks that you should not lose, because we are talking about emergency situations, as the name of this service indicates. Fixed, more than that, that companies find much more to expect to have the majority of staff, more than 90_per_cent of the template in reduced days, because this way they have greater flexibility. And that makes it a big storm. And that every time there are new people who are formed, they go away and have to retrain people. And that also implies a worse quality of service. Do you want us to have a quality emergency trick service at the height of the people's needs? You want this? So I'm starting to internalize this service. And until they do, like at least, impose conditions on businesses... [[The president withdrew the use of the microphone to the deputy and she continued to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.89.0	Time's up. To answer, the word "Interior Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.90.0	Well, to the question of whether we want there to be a service with these characteristics; naturally, yes. With the rights of the guaranteed workers; naturally, yes. And it is true that a very difficult situation has occurred, for a company that just made a couple of months or three failed and that it was very difficult for the department not only to guarantee that another company provides the service, because at these times it has to be a company that lends it, but also to guarantee that the workers understand their..., the total of their salaries. That was done and guaranteed. Then there's the..., and our obligation is to ensure that the service is provided and to guarantee the workers' rights. It is also true that there is the compromise that, of the telephone service, an analysis will be carried out to see which is the best way to provide the service. And this does not affect 112, in principle, in the compromise, but sense of doubt, the analysis will undoubtedly also affect 112. That said, in between, our obligation is that the service is provided; and that the service is provided with the highest quality. And, therefore, demand that the company do that the departure of the clauses obliges it to realize. And also, as service providers, naturally, ensure that workers can do so and work with most guarantees and their rights guaranteed. There's a labor dispute at this point, it's obvious. The company and the workers are negotiating. Tomorrow it seems to me that there is a mediation to the Department of Work, called for by the workers and, depending on how this negotiation ends, naturally the department, as responsible, as the service provider, will necessarily intervene, mediate and interlocute with the shares to ensure that the workers' rights are guaranteed. For them, necessarily, because that's what we believe, and also, naturally, for a service performance that's essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.91.0	Thank you very much. Let's start the turn of questions to the President of the Generality. [[Question to the President of the General Council on data relating to illegal occupation of housing and measures to deal with them]] [[317-00031/13]] He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Alejandro Fernández, of the Grup Mixt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.92.0	Thank you, President. Catalonia concentrates 48_percent of the illegal occupations in all of Spain, with an increase of 70_percent of the illegal occupations in 2020. How do you rate these data and how do you intend to correct them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.93.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.94.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Member, these facts that you express are just one of the cares for one of the biggest social problems we have today, which is the difficulty of accessing housing. And these difficulties, for the ordinary lives of the market, at these times, of extreme difficulty, make it produce for other lives. And, therefore, I should like to assist you in the areas where there are conflict points by mediating, and, therefore, if you are able, therefore, with the defence of everyone's fundamental rights. But what is a priority and here we are fully committed, as Councillor Cervera has already clearly explained..., is in a country's housing policy. And, therefore, to guarantee habitat for everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.95.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.96.0	Thank you, President. I reminded you, Mr Aragonès, that Catalonia concentrates 48_percent of the illegal occupations throughout Spain. You will not be able to correct this, as you usually do, either by blaming Madrid or by attacking the People's Party. They can only do it by changing politics diametrically. During 2020, 70_percent of illegal occupations grew, which shows that its Decree 7/2019, still in force, has not worked. In fact, the situation has worsened severely. And I say in force, because they have refused to apply Judgment 16/2021, of the Constitutional Court, which points out what the Magna Charter says in housing matters, which in essence is what the housing laws of the democracies of our environment say. In other words, the material right to housing is the responsibility of the public authorities to guarantee it. But it must be compatible with the right to private property contained in article 33 of our Constitution. Instead, what you have done and what you continue to do is disagree with your responsibility. They haven't just taken out public housing park. And transfer that responsibility to private owners through their own home. And it is clear that this policy does not work. The data is demolishing. You must change it. And if you are so supportive of the occupied, welcome one into your own home, but do not force others to do so. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.97.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.98.0	I think we should try important debates as regards a right, which is not characterized as one of the fundamental rights to the Constitution, but for us it is fundamental, which is the right to housing, to put a little rigour there. You asked me not to blame the People's Party, but, without blaming it, tell it the responsibility that every step before it is done in legislative matters in this chamber respects the right to housing, you systematically bring it to the Constitutional Court. Now it seems that the Government of the State is also aiming to comply with the regulations, which has been effective, which has produced positive results, in the matter of limiting the price of the loguers. But what do we have to do? First, what are we doing? One, it's to intervene in the market. Yes; intervene in the market. Because, even from very liberal positions, as you can represent and I do not share, when there are market failures to intervene. And we intervened to... where there was an inordinate increase in price, to put it on the front. It had positive effects. In fact, the municipalities where the legislation was applied, precisely because there was much more tension in the housing market, from price limitation to loguers, is not only where the price of the housing logue has been lower than the average price, since the application of the regulation, especially since the first quarter of last year, but also where there has been an increase higher than the name of the contracts signed in the later year. Therefore, intervening in the market works and is opportune whenever it is done with a solid base that we make. However, much more needs to be done and, precisely, one of the objectives of the agreements that allowed investment is a substantial increase in the budget earmarked for housing policies to implement what the Housing Sectoral Plan says, which is also a clear intervention in public promotion of protected housing and in alliance with the third sector. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the news of repression situations and downsizing of the Prison Centre Lledoners and the measures of the Government in this sense]] [[317-00025/13]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.99.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.100.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, have you seen this news published last Sunday in El Mundo? « Mobbing to the indomitable officials of Lledoners. Continued pressure from the independence authorities on the intermediate prison commanders. Limits on staff members. Witch hunt, according to the unions. Six of twelve service chiefs of Lledoners, six of the twelve, are on leave out of anxiety, four of them issued by the Generalitat, another fifteen officials are on leave and many more are expected. Meanwhile, the perpetrators of the coup await the pardons and in Lledoners the climate is irresistible for those who guard them. Mr President, can you confirm the data on casualties and civil servants' files in Lledoners? And if so, will your government take any action on this scandal?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.101.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.102.0	Beyond what certain headlines say, what I want to do is a thank you to all the prison service workers in our country. Because after a year of pandemic, which has also lived in prisons, with a double and triple confinement extremely hard, they have been demonstrating their professionalism. Therefore, if you want to have concrete data for the prison center, according to the forecasts of the Rules of this chamber, you can ask for all the information and it will be provided. We don't just respect the right of all workers to do their job well, but give them all the support they can't be in any other way.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.103.0	You have the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.104.0	We all appreciate the work of public officials, especially those who face government repression. Look, you have to come... you've referred to headlines. Titles, well, listen... The press is all the freer the further away it is from you and your subsidies, and the fact that it publishes this a newspaper that is not to your liking because it doesn't mean that if the river sounds water it carries. Look, you've already distinguished yourselves by putting public servants in the spotlight already since your deputy, Mr Lluís Llach, when he said that that public official who didn't comply with the laws of disconnection, pathetic. You remember this, don't you? And you too have taken forward the professional career of some official by sending him to escort Mr Puigdemont and will not only answer for it some counselor, but also the professional career of some official. Look, for us, this Catalonia of sectarianism and fanaticism is not what most Catalans want for our children. And I regret that socialism is profiled in the face of this news of abuse and legitimizes this nationalist harassment by giving pardons to the politicians responsible for these actions. We do take this complaint very seriously, which is very serious, about the persecution of officials and so, yes, I will do what you say, Mr President, we will. We're going to ask for information, we're going to ask questions, we're going to ask for the judge's appearance. We'll get to the end and those responsible will pay for it. And they know that in this we do not warn in vain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.105.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.106.0	No, Mr. Carrizosa, we're used to your threats. It's common for you, when you don't like them, when you don't like what we do, to threaten to bring us to court, with this constant threat of complaints. A lot of things. First of all, I didn't say whether I like a diary or not. Therefore, listen to me, this statement is guarded for you. Moreover, I like to read the whole press, because so you see many of the points of view, all this reality that in the background is a miraculously broken, as Mercè Rodoreda reminded us. Second thing: he mentioned the case of Councilman Miquel Buch before the prosecution's complaint. As President of the Generality, all support to Councilman Miquel Buch. All the support. [[Greetings.]] And the third thing: you spoke of repression. From repression you will function based on the press headlines that you read this diumenge while you were drowsy. So look, the repression is translated... the real repression in Catalonia is that today we have nine political prisoners in prison, that we have people in exile, that there are open cases, for example, open cases from the Court of Auditors, specifically questions from the same court, that are affected and that are threatening to bring down people who have nothing to do with the decisions that are imputed to them. It should be reflected that the North American academic community, especially in the area of the economy, has put its hands at the top to know who are the threats against the heritage and who are the economic benefits of Councillor Andreu Mas-Colell. I should think about it. And then they use all this to attack another game. Look, if you want to control the Spanish Vagina Government at the Congress of Deputies, you exercise there the control session where, by the way, there and there, each time you have less support. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.107.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Ask the president of the Generalitat about the compatibility between the green transformation to reverse the climate change and the expansion of the airport of Barcelona - el Prat]] [[317-00027/13]] Asks the question Ms.Jessica Albiach of the Parliamentary Group In Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.108.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, you said during your investiture debate that the third flag of the Generality – and quote textually –"would be a green transformation to put the climate change back on its feet and begin to reverse it with all urgency. And that's why we want to know, and we ask, if you think this statement is compatible with his government saying yes to the expansion of Prat airport.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.109.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.110.0	Thank you, President. What our government has done is to push forward what had not been done, which is a table of work among all the administrations that, before a possible expansion of the Prat airport, are affected and have something to say. And we have always said the same thing: we are in favour of investments that arrive in Catalonia, those investments that can go in the line of promoting the connection of intercontinental flights will obviously be welcome, but obviously with clear conditions, with clear conditions that are respect for biodiversity, with all the environmental parameters to which we are fully committed, and a clear demonstration is that the government agreement between the Republican Left and the Juntas per Catalunya, one of the measures that is foreseen is the protection of the delta of the Llobregat and the expansion of the protection systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.111.0	To answer the question, the word "Jessica Albiach" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.112.0	So I wouldn't share it, President, because I believe that what his government has done is to put itself behind a technical table where you, precisely, do what they do is to go out on referees and not make a proposal. The other day, this very day, its Vice President, Vice President Puigneró, was the first to come out of the Government to express what was the position of the Government of the Generality respecting the expansion of the Prat airport. And that's the headlines he left us. As you like to read the press, you just told us, I'm sure you would. "The Generalitat is showing partisanship for the first time of the expansion of the airport. « The Government agrees to expand the Prat. « The Government is committed to facilitating the expansion of the Prat. Therefore, what we want to know, president, is whether you see it reflected in this position, if you share the words of your vice president. I'm saying that because this is incompatible with what you said to your investiture. It is incompatible to expand the third runway of the Prat airport and make the green transformation of which you spoke at the investiture debate. Look, last June 2nd I asked you that as President of the Generality, as President of our country, you lead and present a proposal. They can't expect Europe to continue doing the work, because this is the feeling we have. And I asked him why Catalonia's airport model can't decide AENA with its chant, Catalonia's infrastructure airport model has to be decided in Catalonia, and that's also sovereign. On the 16th, fourteen days have passed, and beyond what Vice President Puignero said, we don't know what the government's position is. We have the feeling that you have decided not to lead this issue, and therefore we explain to him what our proposal is to see if we convince him. If we reduce CO2 emissions, if we protect the natural environment, if we improve the road network, if we invest in connections like Barcelona-Madrid, the Mediterranean Corridor to save us flights, and if we connect by rail the airports of Reus, Prat and Girona, like other cities like London, because Catalonia is much more than a tourist destination, and we deserve a product model... [[The president withdrew the use of the microphone to the deputy and she continued to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.113.0	Time's up, Congresswoman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.114.0	Obviously, the government's position was also expressed by Vice-President Puignero as, among his competitors, there is a policy of infrastructure and also the airport. So, you, apart from the headlines, need to read the body of the news, and it is clearly explained that this position is conditioned by two elements. The first is one of the questions that you have posed about the table, which is the best of the rail connection with the airports of Reus and Girona, and, second place, also the compliment of all the criteria, from the environmental point of view, in which there is, precisely, the preservation of natural spaces. Here what was asked of the institutional table – and representatives of the assemblies that are governed by their political formation – they asked for rigour. And, therefore, what was laid down and agreed is that the manager, AENA, brings in a technical table, where it is technically assessed, this is not just a question that we can only look at from some of the ideological principles that we share, but also from the technical point of view which are the different solutions that there are. And, therefore, it was called for rigour, that all the documents, both those that should be in the Dora, should be put into practice by the director, and, therefore, that is what we will do. And if you're so concerned about AENA, I just want to remind you of one thing, which is that 51_percent of AENA is controlled by a government that you are part of. So, if you do the work there, we can certainly make it easier from here. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.115.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the compatibility between the agreement to govern for the majority and attendance at meetings with National Work Development and with the King of Spain at the Circle of Economy]] [[317-00032/13]] The question is posed by MP Carles Riera, of the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.116.0	Good morning, President. You will remember that in Parliament's proposed plethora we had occasion to debate the possibility and convenience of governing for everyone. You said yes, and I said no. Finally, I understand that we have come to the conclusion that what is possible and necessary is to govern for the majority. So, look, for us, I suppose, President, that you will agree, govern for the most part to do it against the precariousness of the working class, to strengthen public services and to keep them from the private hands that they do business, and thus guarantee us universal access without discrimination or exclusions. It means guaranteeing the right to housing for everyone and putting up with the denials to vulnerable people and families. It means guaranteeing universal access to basic sub-administrations, and it also means halting the climate change and guaranteeing an eco-feminist transition to the economy. If you, President, surely believe that you can govern for the majority, can you explain to us what you were doing to Labour Development with the Count of Godó and Mr. Pedro Sánchez? And can you explain to us what your government will do at the King's same table at the Circle of Economy?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.117.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.118.0	What we do all the time is exercise as the government of Catalonia and clearly convey what is the position and decisions of the Government of Catalonia, and we will do it in front of all the forums. We don't have a problem with going, and even with whom we have ideologically in the past and institutionally in the past, to defend our project, which is a republic project, it's an independentist project, it's a project that works for the economic prosperity of the country and for a prosperity that is shared, to face the four transformations that we want to face with the country: the transformation from the social point of view with a new social contract, with the strength of the public services, with a more resilient economy; the transformation into a clause of feminist compromise, and, I assure you, if you have followed some of these old acts that we have clearly involved in these issues; in addition to the ecological transition that we have in front of ourselves. Because we always defend the democratic resolution of the political conflict with the State with our proposal, which is self-determination and amnesty. And I won't have a problem going until I have my ideological predecessors to defend this, because I have confidence in the project, I have confidence in our position and I have confidence in our convictions, which are widely shared by the citizens of Catalonia. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.119.0	To answer that question, Mr. Carles Riera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.120.0	Miri, president, can't defend the working class and congratulate yourself on promoting work. This is absolutely incompatible. It cannot fight the climate change and ally itself with the defenders of the current economic and growth model who want the expansion of the airport. It is not possible to defend the right to housing and to celebrate with the real estate speculators or to celebrate that the government of the PSOE-We cannot suspend our law of housing despite the fact that it goes to the Constitutional Court fulminating the sovereignty of this Parliament and threatening the right to housing of all the citizens of Catalonia. Cannot defend the right to basic sub-administrations and fit the hand to the energy oligopolis with the price of electricity in maximum history. President, you can't defend amnesty and self-determination and take the table with the king. It can't break with the rule and give the once-stabilized state. It can't rule for the majority and it's done with the elites and the oligarchies. We, President, are clear on what side we are. You, president, and your government, believe that with these bad friendships and complicitys you are mistaken for bandol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.121.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.122.0	As I said, we will always defend our position and everything, and we will always defend it because we have no problem, we have absolute security in which our convictions are and in our positions. And we will probably do so in areas where, therefore, the ideology of the people who participate in it is far removed from ours, perhaps, yes, but we will fully defend our convictions, and we will not lower a_gram which is our program, which is ours. No one here has celebrated the filing of an appeal to the Constitutional Court against the law governing the prices of the loguers. On the contrary, we have not only personat, we will not only fight it legally but we have denounced it politically. And we are very clear that the fact that they did not ask for automatic suspension does not go far enough from the fact that the Government of the State has not done what they committed in their agreement to form their investment in their government two years ago, which was to regulate the price of the loguers, nor does it clearly go far enough to the fact that when we want to do it, when we do it and it works for us, we want to pull back together with a Constitutional Court that is very clear that it will never act in favour of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.123.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on his actions to continue in power. [[Asks the President of the Generalitat about his actions to continue in power]] [[317-00026/13]] Asks the question to Mr Ignacio Garriga of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.124.0	How far are you willing to go to keep yourself in power, Mr Aragonès?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.125.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.126.0	To achieve the freedom of the country, to achieve social justice by democratic, peaceful and with the support of the citizenry we are ready to go to the end. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.127.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.128.0	We're clear. All of you are willing to do anything so as to remain in power. They reached power by betraying the majority of Catalans, ending up with prosperous Catalonia, impoverishing Catalans and enriching the same elites that today, as before the coup d'état, demanded dialogue or, rather, that criminals be treated unequally with respect to any Spanish or Catalan. These weeks we have known the will of the Government of Sánchez to pardon the coupsmen, to pardon those who attacked Catalonia and the rest of Spain, to those who stole the money and trampled on the rights and freedoms of all Catalans, to those who tried to expropriate our common heritage, our land, to those responsible for the ruin and misery of our compatriots. The pardons know that they are the first step of a plan drawn in that evil called « dialogue table, table of betrayal between Sánchez and Junqueras. The next chapter will be, and we know it, moving forward on its rupturist agenda and working on a new coup d'état while most Catalans suffer their totalitarian and impoverishing projects. Will you explain, Mr. Aragonès, to the thousands of families who are in the queues of hunger that you will continue to waste money on your separatist farce? Are you going to look those families in the face that are having such a bad time for their fanaticism? They have no shame, Mr. Aragonès. You continue to use your media speakers, paid with everyone's money, to continue the process of destruction and discord. On TV3, yes, to those journalists and Tertullians you pay them to repeat that the convictions of the coupsmen for their criminal activity and for being part of a mafia system are convictions against Catalonia. Against Catalonia, Mr. Aragonès? Clean your mouth before talking about Catalonia, please. But what did you think? No criminal represents Catalonia, Mr Aragonès. And, in any case, they represent what you are, proud thieves of delinquency who count on the welcome of an illegitimate nation government with which you do share the desire to remain in power at the expense of anything. The only condemnation is that of Catalans who do not buy their speech and are persecuted by violent separatist jails; the only condemnation is that of students without financial resources who will not be able to enjoy the same job opportunities as their compatriots; the only condemnation is that you have imposed on the workers, who see how their legal insecurity leads to the exit of businesses and the loss of employment; the only condemnation, Mr Aragonès, is the situation that goes through thousands of families who do not receive such aid because you allocate it to TV3, to their embassies and to the great beneficiaries of separatism, the elites. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.129.0	Mr. Garriga, you have entitled "the President of the Generality and the Government of the Generality of Catalonia. I give you the opportunity to make a correction on this false and unfounded statement. You want to do it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.130.0	I didn't refer to the president or the government. I have done so to the historic misrepresentative attitude of the Government of the Generality's public foundations.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.131.0	Excuse me. It's also an assertion that you don't have any proof to do it in the terms you did. I give you the opportunity to withdraw it. The next time you do, I'll call it in.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.132.0	The vice president has been convicted of misappropriating public funds. You yourself... are judicial judgments. It's not something I made up. Mr. Junqueras convicted of misappropriation...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.133.0	Mr. Garriga, I asked for it and wanted to withdraw it. [[Pause.]] I don't want to take it off. The next time you do, I'll call it in. [[Greetings.]] The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.134.0	I hardly think so, so yes, I am the president of Catalonia and I represent Catalonia because it was decided by the citizens at the polls. And in this country, which represents the country, the polls decide, and they have decided clearly what the composition of this Parliament is. Therefore, a little respect for democratic institutions, which you should have, Mr Garriga. Miri, on June 13th, Montserrat Roig was seventy-five years old. And today I would like to recover a sentence that I think can sum up in a very clear way what would be my response to his intervention. Montserrat Roig said: "When we don't like an idea that doesn't fit in with our mental world we don't discuss it; we crush it, we bring it down to parody. You're what he does with all the political positions that don't come into his mind, don't come into his plantation. You came here to speak on behalf of the majority of Catalonia. You represent 217,000 votes in Catalonia. We'll work because you represent a lot less, because you represent a lot less. We will also work because the voters who voted for you, see that you, the one who..., despite taking advantage of the anguish, despite taking advantage of the problems of inequality, here you clearly represent the extreme right of always. And we will work to make them - to see and to do so with ambitious policies, clearly ambitious social policies and progress. And obviously, when you... well, it always ends up using the same, that it's trying to counter what social rights are, the will of progress, especially in a situation of economic difficulty for the citizenry, so it's what our institutions of self-government are, which is public communication media, which is the defense of català. Montserrat Roig also said: "If you ask me why I write in Catalan, three reasons come to me: first, because it is my language; second, because it is a literary language; and, third, I write in Catalan because it gives me the will. So, look, I can only do more than subscribe to what all the public communication media do in Catalan, paraphrase also Montserrat Roig. Therefore, before their insults, before their falsehoods, before their attempts to restrict the freedom of this country, more freedom, more democracy and more negotiation, where we go to defend two things that they do not like, but we will defend them with many gain: amnesty and exercise of the right to self-determination. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.135.0	You ask the president of the generality for... sorry, yes, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.136.0	On a point of order, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.137.0	Mr. Carrizosa, you know that there are no questions of order, only the articles of the Rules. For what article of the Rules do I ask the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.138.0	On points of order, Madam President. You can inform him, the specific number, the lawyer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.139.0	Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.140.0	On a point of order regulated in our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.141.0	Say'men what article...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.142.0	The article...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.143.0	Say'men what article.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.144.0	No need!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.145.0	Say'men what article...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.146.0	There's no need to say...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.147.0	Say'mper quin article in question the word or you don't have the word, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.148.0	For the 39, Madam President, if it is the one who regulates the points of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.149.0	Article 39 does not regulate questions of order, Mr Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.150.0	Don't make us learn the Rules from memory.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.151.0	No, I'm sorry, you, to speak in this chamber, you have to tell me for what article I ask for the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.152.0	That's not true... (The president withdraws the microphone's use to the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.153.0	Mr. Carrizosa, you don't have the word. I turned off his microphone. There are no questions of order. I just confirmed the spell. There are no questions of order. I asked him for what article I asked for the word. As you don't know for what article I ask the word, you don't have the word. Let's move on to the next question. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the President of the Generality about the interference of the Government of the State in the Generality's competitions with the recourse to Law 11/2020, urgent measures in the matter of the containment of yields in housing leases, and how he will address it at the meeting with the President of the Government of the State]] [[317-00030/13]] He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the latest political developments. The question is posed by Mr Albert Batet, from the Junts per Catalunya group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.154.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members. As we are obliged to do, we must fully observe new episodes of repression in the Spanish State, and today we want to express our full support to Councillor Buch and Sergeant Escolà, whom the prosecution wants to undertake to complete its functions. [[Some applause.]] Now, every time in Spain it will be harder to act with the same impunity. The political and judicial struggle in exile gives results. We have seen this for the last few weeks, with the recovery of the immunity of President Puigdemont, of the Councillors Comín and Ponsati, and with the Council of Europe demanding the release of political prisoners. Spanish every time is more evident before Europe and shows that it must immediately release political prisoners. President Aragonès, yesterday the Spanish Government seized the Catalan law of llogers, a political decision that attempts against the sovereignty of this Parliament and attacks the quality of life of the most vulnerable people. While Catalonia is working to promote legislative reforms to achieve the right of decent housing, the Spanish State is devoting its efforts to curb the well-being and progress of Catalans and Catalans. The State attacks our powers to preserve its incompetence. There's someone who trusted that the PSOE and Podemos, they trusted that they would act in a different way and we see that they didn't. Some of us were already skeptical from the very beginning. Time gives us reason. The PSOE and We can act in the same way as the People's Party, which has already resorted to this law at the end of the year. The PSOE and We can resort to social laws that detail social rights. At the beginning of the month, the Spanish government allowed a bid up to a 27_per_cent of the bill. We have the most expensive light in Europe. Today's the day when there's a most historic one. And, in addition, yesterday you brought an appeal to a law that limited the abusive prices of the loguers, who in Catalonia have already helped 76,000 families. So, it's not the most progressive Spanish government in history, it's the Spanish government with the least shame in history. And in this sense, President Aragones, we would like to know what his opinion is before this interference and how he will raise this question at the meeting with President Sánchez. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.155.0	To answer, the President of the Government of Catalonia has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.156.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Deputy, I also add to your words of reprimand, and I also extend the support that I had previously given to Councilman Buch, to the agent of the Mossos, to the sergeant who was also affected, Sergeant Escolà. The decision of the Government of yesterday's State to file this appeal against the law regulating the prices of the logger, is an absolutely unfair decision. It is a decision that it is a new interference from the point of view of competition and it is a decision that is absolutely contradictory to its commitments and absolutely inappropriate, especially when we find ourselves. The Socialist Party and Podemos agreed precisely, in Pedro Sánchez's investiture agreement, that there would be a regulation of the loguers and that was the generation of the year 2020. We are now in mid-2021 and not only has this proposal not been approved by the Government of the State nor in the Congress of Deputies, but it is neither expected nor expected. We have been acting as the government of Catalonia. It was this Parliament that specifically approved this initiative. I, therefore, neither makes nor lets do it. The fact that suspension has not been requested does not make it worse; it gives us time to settle this issue before the Constitutional Court, following the dynamic that it is carrying in the last few years, so it can probably affect this rule. Because it is a useful rule, because there have been drawings of thousands of Catalans who have benefited from the lowering of the price of the logger, especially in the municipalities where the market is much more tense. It's nothing but what they say it's going to happen. They said, when this law was approved, that the offer would be reduced. It didn't happen. The housing offer of lloger, the number of contracts signed, which is the best indicator we have, has increased more in the municipalities where it has applied, in view of the tension of its real estate market, the limitation of the prices of lloger than in the municipalities where it has not applied. In the municipalities where it has been precisely applied, the drop in the average price of the lloger has been much more intense than not in the rest of the municipalities if they have a housing market with all the difficulties, perhaps less tension. Therefore, it is absolutely timely, the law that we approved and the... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and the President continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.157.0	Time's up, Mr. President. Question... [[Pause.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.158.0	Pursuant to Rule 90, an appeal for compliance with the Rules of Procedure, for failure to comply with Rule 39 of the Rules of Procedure, of the duty of impartiality of the President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.159.0	Mr Carrizosa, pursuant to Rule 85, corresponds to the presidency of this chamber to decide, direct and moderate the debate. I, therefore, don't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.160.0	With impartiality, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.161.0	With absolute impartiality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.162.0	Impartially.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.163.0	Effectively.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.164.0	And that's what I'm questioning, if you'll let me talk.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.165.0	Like this is my faculty, you have the microphone locked, Mr. Carrizosa. I'm talking about me and using the word. [[Widow's remorse.]] I told him that, under Rule 85, you don't have the word. Let's keep asking questions. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the appeal of the Government of the State to the Law 11/2020, of urgent measures in the matter of yield containment in the leases of housing, and the advances of the working group to guarantee the right to housing]] [[317-00028/13]] He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the latest political developments. The paragraph is made by Mr Josep Maria Jové, of the Group Republicà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.166.0	Thank you very much, President. President, before the social emergence that is leaving us the crisis that we act decisively and conjure ourselves to put all our efforts to the service of this priority. We have limited tools, we know, and we can express them as much as possible, all of them, as this Parliament and the Government are doing, with necessary and urgent solutions, without taking responsibility or denying resources; on the contrary, assume them all, redistributing them as much as we can. Defending social rights is also what defines us as independenceists. And yes, it's compatible. Actually, we're proud of it. And we proudly defend also the laws that this Parliament approves to shield people's rights, such as the Catalan law of llogers, which we are now talking about, instead of resorting to them for a competitive argument, as some do. It is the cruel convenience of appealing to a future unconstitutionality to do nothing in the present; it is the rule protecting the usual. It's embarrassing, it's embarrassing, it's embarrassing, it's embarrassing, it's embarrassing, it's embarrassing, it's embarrassing, it's embarrassing, it's embarrassing, it's embarrassing, it's embarrassing, it's embarrassing, it's President, before unjust, abusive and inexcusable situations, which are also rape, only one way remains for us: to overcome them as it is, because the competitions cannot be an ambush to the right. Housing is a right, and we have to protect it. Now they have resorted to the law that limits the loggers that pushed the Trade Union of Lloggers and the Constellera Capella, a law that works and works very well, that unravels the simplistic and maniceus discourse that ensures that the logger cannot be regulated. Perhaps it is more important to guarantee the benefits of the free market than the rights of the citizenry. It is true that this law is still very insufficient; more measures are being taken. The first quarter of this year there was more than one denunciation every hour in our country. The housing emergency is tragic every day. The inaction of some is despair until the end of the rest, for the masses, and it cannot continue to pass. Those who do not want to approve a tool of minimums now go through it as they continue to rent out in their hands refer to the need and urgency of protecting those minimums as they are. We need to act decisively in all areas, whatever they are, so that we can end the abuses that violate the right to a decent habitation, to a decent life. In this sense, president, how does the working group advance to guarantee the right to housing? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.167.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.168.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Member, the pandemic and the social effects of the crisis that has led to it have exacerbated some of the underlying trends that have been manifesting in recent years and decades in Catalonia. One of them is the increase in inequalities and the increase in vital precariousness in certain sectors of our society, in many of our lives and lives. The pandemic didn't mitigate them, it didn't limit the precariousness, it just made it worse. And we're looking at a few months ahead of us and we're going to have to give up the star positions of the blockade, like this appeal that the state government has filed, and bet on the solutions. The denunciations, a portion of which are put to rest for the moratorium of denunciations that has been dictated by the Government of the State, will probably increase in the next few months when this moratorium ends. And that's what we're doing. And that we have the measures to do not only to recover what may be affected, in this case, by the actions of the Constitutional Court and by the appeal lodged by the Spanish Government, but also because the situation that will be created will be very difficult for drawings of thousands of families. And here no one can hide in restrictive interpretations of the Constitution, no one can hide in which someone acts out of his or her competence, according to his or her interpretation, but we must act in agreement with the needs of the country and also in agreement with our convictions. Therefore, the work table to guarantee the right to housing starts its work on this same diver. The intention is not only to focus on the issue arising from the denunciations, on the concrete aspect of the denunciations, but to look at the whole of the previous chain that has so far been here. Therefore, to focus on questions of mediation, regulation, structural policies in the field of housing, coordination absolutely essential with social services, and also calling on the judiciary to draw up a new protocol for the follow-up of all these cases, which is absolutely essential. We defend social rights by conviction, because this is a government that, apart from being independentist, is a government of men and progressive women, but it is also not only compatible, the defense of social and national rights, but today, with the performance of the Government of the State of this very week, is absolutely essential. National rights and social rights, social rights and sovereignty are not only compatible, but it is an indispensable alliance. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.169.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generalitat on the presentation of the draft law of assumptions of the Generalitat]] 317-00029/13 The question is posed by Mr. Salvador Illa, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.170.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. President, will you present your government's 2021 Presumables Act in this chamber, as you committed yourself to doing?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.171.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.172.0	We will present the law of assumptions so that the 1st generation of 2022 comes into force. My compromise – which I did..., and you will remember it because we did it in electoral programs – was that the previous investiture tied to an agreement of assumptions. It is clear that if the investiture took place at the end of March, we would have been in a position to do so; if it had taken place, then, during the month of May, you know perfectly well, because you have dealt with assumptions, that if we now put in gear, even from the point of view of Parliament, they would be in force for one and a half months, two months, and therefore it would not be possible to apply these assumptions, nor the new ones, because the month of November cannot begin to apply our assumptions; you are beginning to make the year's lock. And you, who managed, so, even from the state government, know better than I do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.173.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Salvador Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.174.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, we know perfectly well that this is possible. No... with all due respect, don't run away from study. Miri, on the 9th of February, on the 9th of February, in a television debate, you said literally: "I want to take a compromise here," you said; "with my investiture you will also enter into an agreement of assumptions. He has appeared three times in the investiture and for three times he has failed to fulfill his promise. Like Saint Pere, three denials; three times, three denials, honoring his name. With all due respect, I mean. At that time, you had the responsibility of the Economics Council. And I, who have him for a responsible person, am sure that when you made this statement it was because you had a draft assumptions prepared for this 2021. And I want to think he's made a proper transfer to the Economics and Finance Advisor, Mr. Giró. They've been transferred, haven't they? I want to think he's been through this. I can understand that you have to give up Mr. Giró. It's been an hour, so, Mr. Giró, it's a day, because the country can't wait. And to pass a premise for this 2021 is no less, it is to put 2,000_million more resources to the service of Catalonia, you have said, at a time when Catalonia needs the maximum resources to ensure that no one is left behind; it is to start making this government give up with little; it is to make this government come to the chamber and make a transparent debate on how to put the political priorities that you have mentioned on the blackboard. Therefore, Mr. Aragonès, the incitor, asks you to honour your commitment. I want a president of the Generality with credibility. I want a government of the Generality, Catalonia needs a government of the Generality with a president with credibility. And I'll tell you what I said here: if the reason why I don't do it is because it's not reticent of its parliamentary majority, here's my parliamentary group to help Catalonia move forward. But, please, hang on, lead and don't flush the little ones. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.175.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.176.0	Thank you, President. I think we don't have to entangle the citizenry and we have to be a little serious, and I have it for a serious person. It is obvious that assumptions presented in March to Parliament, or even in April, would end up now in June, and we would have half a year to apply them. Presenting some assumptions now means approving them in September, October, and, therefore, there is no longer any scope for applying the novelties. Not just because the inertia of spending is what it is, but because you don't have time to materialize the new investments and spending. And that's what everyone knows that he's managed a supposition. Everybody knows. And it's a lot different that you could put that out in March than you could put that out in May. But we've been doing things. Some actions that have taken place: yesterday, to the Government, 400_million euros in the field of salvation, of enlargement. Therefore, the margin of deficiency of more than obviously applies. There won't be a single euro left here in the calaix. You've been there all year before we wouldn't be spending the entire margin of deficit. And as long as we did – and as long as we did. I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.177.0	President, he's running out of time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.178.0	Oh, I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.179.0	...but the signs didn't ring.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.180.0	Ah...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.181.0	So I'll leave you two seconds so you can wrap it up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.182.0	All right. [[Widow's remorse.]] Four hundred_million euros, to Salute; 161, to Education. And now we have some of the resources that come from the general assumptions of the State, which the State has not yet distributed. When we have them distributed, we will execute them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.183.0	Thank you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Actually, the commands aren't working right now... [[Compliments of the budget of the Parliament of Catalonia]] [[237-00001/13 and 237-00002/13]] After the control session, let's move on to the next item on the agenda, the presentation and vote on the report on the compliment of Parliament's expenditure assumption on 31 July 2020. Before starting with this presentation, I would like to say that this point will be co-substantiated with item 4 of the agenda, which relates to the report on the completion of Parliament's expenditure assumption on 31 December 2020. The Bureau, in accordance with Rule 37.3, letter h of the Rules of Procedure, ordered the submission of both reports to the deputy intervener Mr Óscar Ordeig. Therefore, you have the word to introduce them, Mr. Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.184.0	Thank you, President. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, first of all, as it cannot be in any other way, a thanks to the Oidoria de Comptes, to all the staff and especially to Maria Guiu, on behalf of the Members of the Commission, to the compañeros Juli Fernàndez and Teresa Pallarès; to agrarianize, therefore, the work and confidence in order to be able to defend this point of the agenda. As you know, it has already passed through the Bureau, this proposal for a report on the compliment of the expenditure assumption for the financial year 2020, the two reports. I'll do the joint debate because the shutdown obviously already reflects the whole year 2020. He's already been brought to the Bureau of Parliament and here... and then we put him in plenary. Of course, let us make ourselves available to the Members of the House, to all the Members and Members who are here for any clarification, any doubt or any proposal for improvement in the assumptions, in the accounts of the Parliament of Catalonia. Owner of the elements to highlight. As you know, this presupposition 2020 is marked by pandemic, by covid, and, therefore, there are some misadjustments in its execution very conditional upon the descent of parliamentary activity, the descent of some meetings, some conferences, some projects and some investments, which have surely left more money than was originally planned. The reports on the presupposition compliment, for their approval to the plenary, as provided for in the Rules, are brought here after the listener prepares them, the ports to the deputy interveners and these porters, the transporters, to the Enlarged Bureau, as has been said, which was May 25, 2021. The initial import of the chamber's presupposition is – it was – more than 62_million euros. The presuppositional changes, which were all made in the first half of 2020, were of import of more than 680,000 euros; they were only three modification expeditions, one of incorporation of novelists of 259,000 euros, two of extraordinary generations of credit of more than 420,000 euros; I will go round to avoid getting very tired with ciphers. In total, the total import of the modifications provided a presumption of more than EUR 63 million. Basically, very quickly, Chapter 1, the most important, of staff, was more than 32_million euros; Chapter 2, of expenditure, current earnings, more than 10_million euros; current transfers, more than 16_million euros; real investments, more than 3_million euros; variation of financial assets, the smallest item, with a de_million euros. For what it does to the execution of the presupposition, at 31 December, it was 88.65_per_cent. Therefore, the initial assumption more modifications, with the recognized obligations; therefore, the one that was actually made and the invoices that arrived, was spent an 88,65_per_cent of the assumption. To emphasize that there were only two parties, that they were the ones that left more money: one of the real investments, was only spent 35_percent of the real investment because some construction works projects were put up for the pandemic; and also current expenses of goods and services, which was only spent 75_percent at the same time, as I said before, at the descent of some activities that were scheduled and that were not done for the pandemic. If we look at the actual payment issue, it paid 99 of the recognizable bonds, 99_per_cent is paid. Okay? Therefore, I believe that there is a very high percentage of payment. An important theme: Romants de crèdit, at 31 December. The credit romants of 2020 are of a total of 7,225,000 euros. An 11_percent of the total has been a Romanesque who has left on this side; as many MPs surely know, one part can be used; another part, no. What can be used seriously is that of available novels, which add up to more than 6_million euros, and others are incorporable to the presuppost 2020 of works that have already begun or of contracts in force. From here, as I said, the available romant, which is 6.770.000_euros, will have to decide if they are used to make the investments that remain pending and that have not happened before the pandemic. Finally, as I said, it is important to make a planning of the works, which certainly many are multi-annual; therefore, who are the works pending from the building of the Parliament that are to be done? We should also, as I said, make available to the Members for any clarification, which we welcome any proposal for better, initiative, for the proper functioning of the Parliament's budget, and, obviously, I believe that it is necessary, in a particularly difficult year, 2020, marked by the pandemic, to make a very sincere thank you to the work of all the workers of the Parliament of Catalonia, who have succeeded in ensuring that the Parliament of Catalonia continues to operate, even though the difficulties are still ongoing. With this summary of the report, we call for a favourable vote on the joint resolution of Members of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.185.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Ordeig. Once these accounts are submitted, ask them if they can be approved by consent of both reports. Don't you? [[Pause.]] Okay. Is there therefore any parliamentary group that wants to intervene? [[Eulàlia Regant and Cure ask to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Regant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.186.0	Very briefly, just to expose that we will abstain, in coherence with our vote against the presuppositions of Parliament. We are not discussing the technical quality of the report, but as we know we are discussing in Chapter 1 the high salaries of Members and senior officials of Parliament, in the same way that we are discussing that many of the expenses of Chapter 2 are externalizations that could be done by means of parliamentary propitious means, and that is why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.187.0	Thank you. Did any other parliamentary groups wish to make any intervention? Don't you? [[Pause.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the report on the completion of the expenditure assumption of the Parliament of Catalonia on 31 July 2020. [[Long break.]] As there have been no speeches from parliamentary groups, we have made the call for a vote, and we hope that the spokespersons who hold the votes will arrive. I have said that we are voting, first of all, on the report on the compliment of Parliament's expenditure assumption dated 31 July 2020. The vote begins. This report was approved by 100 votes to 11, with 18 abstentions. We will continue to vote now on the report on the compliment of the expenditure assumption to Parliament dated 31 December 2020. The vote begins... (Pause.) Yeah, it's not gonna... The vote begins. This report was approved by 102 votes to 11, with 18 abstentions. In accordance with Rule 37.3.h of the Rules of Procedure, the reports on the completion of the expenditure assumption of the Catalonian Parliament, dated 31 July and 31 December 2020, are hereby approved. [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a study commission on mental health and additions]] [[252-00003/13]] Let's move on to the next point of the order of the day – the fourth point was this one that we have co-substantiated with point number 3 – and the fifth point of the order of the day is the proposal for a resolution to create a study commission on mental health and addictions. This proposal has been put forward by seven parliamentary groups and, therefore, to present this motion for a resolution, the seven proposed groups will speak with a single five-minute speaking time for each parliamentary group, as has been granted. It has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the lady Assumpta Escarp. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.188.0	It's just that the president wants to take the time she gave me before. [[Rialles.]] Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, we present this motion for a resolution, is signed for most of the parties in the chamber, and is basically promoted for entities and associations that conform to the Comprehensive Plan of Mental Health and Addictions. It is a matter of creating a committee of study, a committee of study that is equal, where the entities follow, where the parliamentary groups follow, and that together we can define, talk, discuss a model of integral, integrated, preventive and Community care. I believe that the entities sometimes tell us – with a few words, but very clear – if they have been able, as well as their diversity, to agree, we have an obligation with parliamentary groups and with the Government to agree on some objectives, which we can translate into legislation, if necessary, or legislative proposals, and also in the form of presuppositionary proposals and of functioning. We've been talking a lot lately about mental health, we're talking a lot about it, but it's fine, as we've at least visualized a fact that was there, and somehow if any window of opportunity gave us the pandemic in this, it's its visualization, isn't it? But above all we have talked about the consequences that the pandemic has had on the mental salvation or rather on what we have stopped obeying or visiting a 40_per_cent less visits than we did in the year 2020. We're all worried, and I think it's a reflex that at every investment session President Aragones spoke of mental salvation, right? And that somehow it was reflected, and that in its commitments it speaks of a national pact of mental salvation. But what we are most concerned about – and I think we can all share it here – is the mental salvation of infants and adolescents, the increase in eating disorders, and this expanding fact that is the increase of a 27_percent suicide attempt among children of age. We obviously have a problem, we obviously want to put a thread in the needle, and I think we can do it with coordination and cooperation from all sides. It is true that the entities, in their balance of two years of the integral plan, are critical, are basically critical for the lack of coordination of the same councils that formed the integral plan, are critical with the lack of leadership, not only with the lack of resources. I believe that they have placed on the table with this analysis of the integral plan, which I want to remind you that it dates back to 2010, so it has been years since we are talking about the integral plan, and that it is at this moment when they make this balance of two years..., with an agreement, as I said before, but that it poses a lot on..., it poses on the lookout, or around the lookout, on a weak leadership, with a lack of government capacity to work together and, above all, with a lack of resources and not recognizing the professionals. At this point in time, it's also true that many times we think we give answers when there's a very timely event or when something happens, right? We have seen some messages on TV3, some reports on TV3, which have caused us to react, or that the public powers react around some protocols that do not provide coverage at this time to the needs that are being generated. I think that somehow we have to be able to answer and put the system in order not to be able to answer complaints that can be made to media or via Twitter, but simply because it is our responsibility, it is the responsibility of the government, but I think that we are all in agreement on this issue. Mental salvation has long been the poor German of the system. We see it only by looking at the assumptions, among other things for the few moneys that have been devoted to it, and when in his moment I remember that Councilman Comín said that he would put money to mental salvation, neither did they execute. Therefore, we have a compromise, we have a compromise of all and everyone to make it possible. I believe that among other things we have the impulse of entities that conform to the integral plan and, in this case, my group does confirm that it is in this compromise, which is why we have commissioned – if they want to say so – to move this motion for a resolution because it was signed and we can present it here today. But more than we did, it is to gather the witnesses of whom every day is at the front of the entities, the associations and the people who manage and bring mental salvation, that from here I want to give my recognition. And sometimes I personalise it in Mrs. Titon Laïlla, the MP, among other things because she reflects a lot of what is the mental health professional for me. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.189.0	Next is the words of Mr. Juli Fernàndez, for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.190.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, glad to back us up to continue working in the same direction. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Let me start with where MP Escarp ended, thanking the entities of the mental health sector that are every day in the trench, every day, not only during the cage, but still more, in the trench, and making it, therefore, naming them all: in Ammfeina, the Encaix association, Barcelona Mental Health, the Catalonia Health and Social Consortium, the Catalan Federation of Drugs, the Catalonia Mental Health Federation, the Catalan Federation of Mental Health Entities First Person, the Mental Health Forum and the Association of Health and Social Entities, the Union. A thanks also for this proposal above the fruit of his consent, and when there is the consensus of the sector it is much easier to move forward, and even more so in a matter that is a priority of our society, and therefore of this Parliament, and as the very honourable President and the Councillor has also explained, on many occasions, of the Government. The sector, therefore, has made it possible for parliamentary groups, the majority of parliamentary groups, a very large majority – in a consensual way, as you have asked us, because mental salvation is none of us, mental salvation has no political colour, it is everyone's, so – today we propose to this chamber the creation of a committee of study on mental salvation and addictions. I would like to emphasize that it is the first committee that we will create from which they are not preceptive, and, therefore, it is a fact that shows that, to be sure, we are aligned in the fundamental priority of the approach to mental salvation. And let me go a little further. This, the fourteenth legislature, must and will be the legislature of mental salvation, and this depends on us in this Parliament, on the work we do to the Commission of Mental Health, all and all pleas, on behalf of the sector, and also on, and allow me, for my experience as Mayor of Sabadell, also on the part of the promotion and prevention of salvation that can be done by the assemblies, because in the end what we need is to be able to facilitate life, to facilitate day by day, and to do so from all visions. In this committee we will have the opportunity to debate and build great consensus, and allow me to point out some of the questions that have been raised by our parliamentary group, which we have taken responsibility for these past years to manage, and we believe that it is important that we can contribute to it. We will talk about the model and bring, therefore, the vision, the values, the reptes, accessibility and fairness; putting people's lives at the center; community vision; integrality; respect; people's rights; prevention in all spheres, as I say. We will work around the need for governance, a governance that connects and drives people's day-to-day facilitation, a comprehensive governance that we believe must be polyhedral, and we believe, as always, that we will debate and talk about resources. We will therefore bring the need to be able to continue to increase resources in mental health, as has been done since the year 2008 with the incorporation of these 70_million euros that are consolidated, and that we believe that with an extraordinary contribution of 70_million euros more, for example, they can reinforce the individualised community care of the person. Therefore, the objective: to facilitate the day-to-day life of the people. The covid has placed the focus on a structural situation, and it has done so from an exceptional situation that has experienced very hard some collections, especially young people and young people, the great people with their disconnection and with their non-volunteer loneliness, with a clear gender and a class of importance. That is why our parliamentary group, as, of course, proposers, will vote in favour, and we are prepared to build these consensuses to facilitate people's lives. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.191.0	Thank you very much. Then has the word, in the name of Junts per Catalunya, the deputy Assumption Laïlla.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.192.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, before we begin, I would like to thank the associations and entities that have worked intensively for today's debate and approval of the creation of this study commission on mental health and addictions. We do not forget them, that today, obviously, they cannot accompany us to the plenary, even though it was their will, for reasons of the covid, but that they are following us telematically. Before they were appointed, I will not repeat it, but thank you very much, because I am sure that we have spoken about this Parliament of mental salvation, but I am not sure that we have done so in a pragmatic way, realistically, in the context of a debate on how to do it from this committee. Talking about mental salvation is talking about life. Many times when we are talking about people with mental disorder, we are talking about topics, about harm, about stigma, and above all what we need to learn is to talk about empathy, about "you can be me, about proximity, because 82.7 million Europeans suffer every year a mental disorder, that is to say, one of the four of us will suffer a long one of our lives, and therefore we cannot be there for this suffering, nor that it is only for the sure impact that it will have on our lives or on our lives. In my previous life, as a nurse specialist in mental health, I remember a phrase that a patient, L'Emilio, told me, who has always accompanied me in all the proposals I have made here in Parliament, and it struck me very much. He said that his life was ‘a passing of hours without footprint. How can you visualize, how can you give life, feel and dignity to people who feel this way because of a problem of salvation? Because talking about mental salvation is not just talking about salvation, it's talking about the oci; it's talking about housing; it's talking about justice; it's talking about education, it's talking about social support. We have a cross-cutting, global inter-disciplinary and inter-departmental view to address mental illness and its effects so that we can accompany the person from this holistic perspective and provide dignity. We must be able to guarantee and accompany people on their vital path from the development of their maximum personal autonomy by encouraging all and every one of the potentialities of people, fleeing from paternalistic visions– mostly present in the world of mental salvation– and by promulgating the participation and empowerment of people and working with families and the community. I think I can say that we all share the importance of the paradigm shift to which we can move forward, simply by comparing existing models with other countries in policies directed at the best of attention to mental health. But at the risk of being reckless, I think we need to go back to being pioneers in this field and take advantage of the knowledge and experience we have to advance and truly respond to a future we already have here. If one thing has done this pandemic is to pose on the table and without pal·liatius who are the fevers that we have in the field of mental salvation, in many, but above all in mental salvation. Forced confinement has led to sharpening or intensifying relationships, we might say, little healthy, or, on the contrary, it has also deepened in the loneliness of many people who have seen their social relationships carved up, which have come to them throughout their lives. The reason why the pandemic has generated, the uncertainty about what we faced, the infants and young people living crucial stages of their personal and social development in confinement, the precariousness, the vulnerability of many people and families. This brings us an opportunity to talk about a pandemic of mental health problems as well. Therefore, we must face this, as well as the impact of these temptative or suicide-suppressing figures. But we also need to take advantage of it as an opportunity to change the system and consolidate mental health care as a vertebrator of all policies, not just health policies. That's why we need to be aware of what shortcomings we have on the basis, as it can be, for example – and it has been repeated many times in this Faristol – infra-financing. We are investing in prevention, diagnosis, treatment and research, but we are also involved in integration programmes and included in economic measures that help and accompany people who suffer from mental disorders. We cannot let go of drugs or addictions either, and, of course, we cannot take a look at mental health from the adult perspective, but there are problems that appear to the infantess or adolescence that we need to detect in time and thus offer treatments and accompany families, such as the disruptions of eating behavior. And sometimes we have to guarantee continuity of care to the length of life and land. We believe that the lives of people with mental health have left a worthy pat, and we hope that this commission has also left it. Thank you, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.193.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then there is the word, for the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the Lady Laia Estrada.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.194.0	Well, when we present the commission we give many data, many figures on the indexes of what is the state of mental salvation at world level, and it is important to keep it in mind, but also to land it at our home. Some of the speakers have said that the increasing incidence of suicide in children has been specified, as it has, unfortunately, grown out of covid-19. But we can also point out that queries related to anxiety disorders increased by 136_per_cent between the April and May months of the past year, and that it tripled the use of tranquilizers and sleepers. It can be stated that 50 percent of CAP patients have anxiety or depression. And when we talk about enguany, what enguany is going on, to set just one example, the Hospital Sant Joan de Deu has reached a 47_per_cent more emergency mental health only in the first trimester. Why do we think this committee is important? So because it is important for us to be able to talk about three key aspects that permeate our whole system of salvation. On one side, the lack of resources, the obvious lack of resources; on the other side, the perversion of the public-private concertation model, and, lastly, the devastating influence of the social determinants of salvation. First of all, when we talk about the lack of resources we have to remember that we have not yet recovered from the detail that started in the previous economic crisis. We start, moreover, from an absolutely disastrous reality, and it is that, although we have the main economic game in the field of salvation, it turns out that most of this money does not control them directly from the public administration, but that they will stop at these providers. This has a negative impact, and I'll explain it all along, when we talk about the concert model, but what we see is that we have what should be a gateway to our completely dismantled and weakened health care system as primary care. It turns out that mental health does not enjoy enough resources, as has been said, but it is more like it is a luxury service, which can afford to go to a private therapist, and, more than that, we have an insulting list of hope. We don't have enough professionals, we have six psychologists for every hundred-thousand inhabitants in the public system, the rest of Europe the ratio is divided for every hundred-thousand, that is, triple. And, as we say, so, more than that, we don't have enough centers. It is a reference to the striker, to the speaker telling witnesses of that mother who said that she was planning to mortgage herself to be able to pay the four thousand euros that it was difficult for her teenage daughter to enter so that she could be treated as a food disorder. And here's to the perversion of the public-private concert model. We just don't have enough resources, but, from our point of view, on many occasions it's awkward when it's not evil. Our health care system allows public resources to be drained from private hands because a few people do business at the expense of our illness, at the expense of our era and at the expense of precarising the working conditions of professionals. And that's what we see in the whole health system, but especially we see with the oligopoly that represents one of the main foundations, company, like the Pere Mata Group, which we'll talk about enough in this committee. And lastly, we want to stress the importance of taking into account the social determinants of salvation. Why? So because as the WHO says, they are primarily responsible for the inequalities in health that affect the population. We need to strengthen our public health system, we need more professionals, more centers in the joint health care system, and especially in the joint mental health system. But if we don't attack the causes of many of the disruptions that plague the people, we'll hardly get out of it. And we have a terrible recent case, the suicide of one of Sants's ways, the other day, when he was about to be called. Wasn't that death preventable? Were these and all the suicides related to the violation of the right to housing not preventable? How many suicides have occurred today before the threat or finding of a denunciation? We need to guarantee the right to housing, we need to guarantee the right to a quality diet, the right to basic sub-administrations, that no one will suffer, neither set nor cold nor dark. We need, in short, to guarantee the right to enjoy a dignified life, a life that is worth living. And if we are finally talking about additions, I would like to recall the contradiction that represents that all parties have agreed to bring this commission forward, and at the same time many of these parties are supporting a project that fosters ludopathy, such as the previous Hard Rock NCB World.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.195.0	Thank you, Mrs Estrada, Mr David Cid, of the Parliamentary Group in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.196.0	Thank you, President. For our parliamentary group, for En Comú Puem, it is clear that this legislature must be the legislature of mental salvation. And today we take a small step with the creation of this study committee. We understand that mental salvation and addictions have been great oblivions of public salvation after a decade of detail, a decade that we understand has been a lost decade. And probably the covid placed us in a limited situation, huh? to thousands of people and thousands of families, and it makes it impossible to guarantee a model of public attention – I insist on the concept of public – of mental health and addictions, right? Why, when we're done with the virus, which I'm sure we'll be done with, we'll be done with it, the wave, and I don't know if we can talk about the tsunami, about mental health will still be here, right? And the question that entities ask us or do us, for example, the Catalonia Mental Health Federation, is what we will do from the institutions, what we will do from the Catalonia Parliament, if we continue to be able or able, among all folds, to place mental health and addictions as a country priority, right? I think it's a good thing – and they're also moving it, and it's also the object of the committee – to end stigma and make emotional problems and mental disorders visible. We all know, have friends, friends, family, loved ones..., or we ourselves have been people we've experienced at some point in our lives more or less difficult mental disorders or have, for example, gone to psyche. No, I'm not going to ask, am I? In public, or here, who went there, but in any case speaking of my case, that in two periods of my life I had to go to the psychologist, one because of anxiety and the other because of depression, right? But I was able to go there because I had the resources to go there, because I had fifty-five euros in the week so I could go to a psychologist, so I didn't? When I was not a part of the institution in this case, I didn't know that public salvation existed, did I? Although very minute, the figure of the public psychologist, isn't it? So, at the length of our lives, we all go through the psychology, the dentist or the physiotherapist, and many times, right? We see ourselves engaged in doing so through services that are not part of the public purse, in this case, or of public sanitation. I think it's a phone call to resolve, because – and now I want to talk about it too – inequality also affects as a phone call element in the treatment of mental salvation, right? Catalonia has a ratio of six public psychologists per 100,000 inhabitants. Some cities... I have had the opportunity the next week to meet with the Commission Martí Julià, of Santa Coloma: at these moments there are only three public psychologists in action for a city of 120,000 inhabitants. I think you are, don't you? Obviously, it's proven to everyone that we're in a situation that doesn't respond to the needs that have caused the covid, too, isn't it? And it is obvious that the social conditions – there is a reference now – impact on the salvation and, obviously, the mental salvation of the people, right? And it's obvious that a person who can't afford the eight-cents-euro logger, and who unfortunately, as we've been living this week, is killing himself..., it's obvious that the desperate situation he has..., the same time you can't afford the logger is hard for you to pay a 50- or 60-euro weekly psyche, isn't it? And so, the answer we have to give is if it matters to us like society and it matters to us like the country, right? We believe that Catalonia needs to make a leap forward in mental health, basically in prevention, promotion, detection and attention. And it's obvious that we need an urgent plan for mental salvation because the data has dissipated – it's referred to it now too – a 27_per_cent, isn't it? The suicide attempts during the pandemic for what he does to teenagers, right? And I think there are experiences here that you can take advantage of. I want to set two examples. For example, at the level of the Barcelona Assembly, the shock plan that has been set up with the suicide prevention phone. 50_percent of the tricks that I answer this phone are from outside the city of Barcelona. Therefore, I believe that the Generality has the capacity to set aside a similar service, plus with more resources I would say very limited if we compared it to the volume of the premise in this case of the Health Department. And the other is the Consult us program, which is basically a free and unquote psyche, especially for the 12-to-twenty-two-year-old. I think it's also a project that we can export to the rest of the country. In short, you think, don't you? Catalonia needs this to follow the legislature of mental salvation; Catalonia needs a plan of mental salvation at the level of the country, and I hope that this will be one of the first steps that the Department of Health will take. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.197.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Cid. Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.198.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. The mental salvation of the Catalan people is in crisis. This happens not just in Catalonia, it's a universal drama, but it's here, ladies and gentlemen, where our sphere of responsibility works. It cannot be that science advances in the definition of perspectives and solves each time more demanding, complex and cross-cutting, while administrations lie behind making insufficient numbers, making miserable numbers, defending obsolete models that have already ceased to work decades ago, but apparently they are the only ones that managers can or want to pay. It's not a matter of stealing the river or even piloting associations or entities and it's already there. There's a lot of work to do. In 2006, the Pla director of mental health and addictions defined Catalonia as a model of care with an extended view of the health system's conjunction incorporating the promotion, prevention, treatment, rehabilitation and social reintegration of the affected persons. Well, fifteen years after that plan, it's got to be an empty promise, a shell of solution that's scratched by the impact of the bucket. Some of the speakers who have preceded me have already insisted on how, in the physical pandemic and the rigors of confinement, there is a wave of psychiatric pandemic, an explosive cluster of mental health emergencies, especially among the youngest population, among those who are shooting suicide taxes. From here a hug to the parents and mothers who have lost children or who have to lose them forever or in a spiral of loneliness, incommunicado, dependence on the new technologies, food disruptions. A hug also to the family of the Ve de Sants who committed suicide for a denunciation; and yes, Mrs Laia Estrada, I also believe that this death could have been avoided and avoided. Someday we will have to look at the facts, the responsibility of everyone and ask ourselves whether the covid has been, is, a health crisis or a crisis of health model, of administrative sincerity and of assignment responsible for resources. It cannot be that so many families of self-employed workers in precarious or hanging from the thread of an ERT, that so many people hanged for the worst economic crisis that has been experienced here since the Civil War are being followed by demanding tax efforts often inhuman, paying taxes and more taxes, and that at the time of obtaining the services – that these taxes are supposed to finance, still gas, to damage the absorptive of the problems and to minimize the real cost of the solutions. See if we can learn the lesson. He did not feel he was preaching a psychosocial approach to mental health, an expanded view of community intervention in the defense of people's mental rights, if after social and health resources there are not enough or not enough. It cannot be that the care of people with mental health problems continue to grow massively in families and, within families, in women, that we continue to feel the palar palar that endures all the effort that should be of society in its conjunction. Keep it real. We either assume and guarantee the existence of resources that accompany us, whether it goes far in life, people with mental health problems and their families or we won't get out of it. Another urgent assignment is the struggle against the stigma of mental illness. We need to put a lot more energy into making the use of some condition of mental salvation unacceptable as insulted and, even more, we need to fight to dignify mental illness, because this can come out with dignity and be treated as other conditions. Add shame to the disease kills and, when this happens, it's all the faults of everyone, everyone who provokes it and everyone who allows it without doing anything. From Ciutadans, we will promote a proposal of law of principles and urgent application to the rights of people with mental health problems and to their relatives. From here I want to send a strong hug to the psychiatrist and former deputy of Ciutadans in this chamber, Blanca Navarro, who, in an absolutely disinterested and generous way, is working hours, effort and dedication to help us pull this initiative forward. He does that to change things, because yes, because he suffers for all and every one of the people with mental health problems in Catalonia. And it's fantastic that Navarro Whites exist, but the system can't depend on them. It must be provided not to rely on these spectacular cases of altruism and because there are much more psychiatrists, psychologists, mental health nurses, workers, social educators. It is scandalously low, it has already been said here, the ratio of these professional patients to all of Spain, and Catalonia is no exception. In short, ladies and gentlemen, what we are dealing with is this proposal for a resolution of a creation of a committee of study that is expected to be approved in a very unanimous manner today and could be without the "almost if it were not for the children's veto of the VOX Group, as if there were mass extremists on this issue to be against it. Anyway, let's hope you pull this thing forward. When I started as a parliamentary journalist, I thought if you wanted to bury a problem, we'd create a commission. Let's hope this isn't the case this time and that it's still going well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.199.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Grau. Then you have the word, on behalf of the Mixt group, Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.200.0	Thank you, President. A great deal has already been said in this debate and, as Mrs Grau recalled a moment ago, it is practically a proposal for the creation of a committee which has been signed by all but one of the groups, because they have not been given the opportunity and, of course, I believe that, on a subject and on a subject like this, because it was not time to make the policy that some of them are carrying out and from my group also, of course, we regret this attitude and behaviour which, I insist, I believe does not help at all and less on issues like this. I also join in that greeting and thanks to the entities and associations that are following the debate, because in streaming, since the circumstances of the covid do not allow to have public. From here I am grateful because they are promoting the creation of this committee and have made it possible for us to bring here today the necessary consensus. I believe that we are faced with a fundamental debate, which is that of mental health and addiction, which is that great forgotten issue, on too many occasions also stigmatised and even minimized. It is true that in recent years we have talked more from this rostrum, from this Parliament, about mental health than in previous times, and surely, therefore, the result of these debates and this awareness, the consensus necessary to adopt today this initiative, which, of course, as I have said before, my group is a signatory. I used to say that mental health has traditionally been that great forgotten, but I think the worst of it is that it has been a conscious forgetfulness. Talking about mental health often bothers you, and it seems that you suffer from such a disorder, because it is embarrassing and leads us to carry it in secret on many occasions, in silence, further aggravating the problem. And I think that's where we all have to raise our awareness of the great responsibility of society. Mrs Laïlla said..., I believe a key word, which is that of « empathy. And I think we all have to build on this empathy, because besides, no one is exempt from suffering a disorder, throughout his life, related to mental health, and I think it is one of the lessons, moreover, that we take from this pandemic. I hope that this committee of study will serve to shed light, to give voice, also serve to normalize, to raise awareness and, I insist, so that we are all aware that this is not another thing and that it can happen to any of us at some point in our lives. He said it's one of the lessons we took from the pandemic. We have not only gone through and continue to go through a global pandemic, but also, for the first time, we have lived confined and have only been able to leave the house for the most essential. We have seen how our children had to leave the classrooms to take the online course. We have also seen how young people could not go to class and have therefore been deprived of those activities which are of their age and which are fundamental. We have also seen hundreds of thousands of Catalans who have gone through an ERTE, some of them, many of them, are still in this situation, with the uncertainty that this causes, and even entrepreneurs, autonomous who have had to close the blind of their business and who do not know if they will be able to open it, with the discomfort and fear and panic that that also leads you. And, therefore, because situations that also derive or may derive in some disorder, in some pathology related to mental health. According to the survey carried out by the Public Health Agency of the Department of Health, together with ESADE and with the collaboration of Idiap Jordi Gol, the health questionnaire in times of confinement by the coronavirus, during the period of confinement – it has been said here already – the symptoms of depression and emotional discomfort have tripled. With regard to anxiety, the figures are even worse. Chronic anxiety has increased up to four times compared to the latest data we had from Catalonia. And what this survey also notes is the increase in the use of tranquilizers, sedatives and sleeping pills. We are particularly concerned – practically all groups have spoken about it – about the group of the youngest. For example, with students more than half, they have symptoms of depression; a 44.8_per_cent, anxiety; and a 91.5_per_cent, emotional discomfort. It is a particularly vulnerable group, not only as a result of the pandemic, but also before. It was also quoted by MP Escarp. We are very concerned about disorders, for example, such as those related to food disorders. Also, of course, juvenile suicide, with that chilling data of the 27_per_cent increase. We've seen those distress calls from some desperate families already, who even use social media to help them. And I hope this commission serves so that those distress calls don't have to be produced on social media or anywhere, that the Administration is there accompanying these families. As a last... I ended very quickly, President. I do not want to leave behind the health professionals, who have suffered a great deal in this pandemic, who have had a greater anxiety than the rest of the population. I think it is essential that we take care of those who take care of us. So from here too, my thanks. And I hope that this committee will, once and for all, serve to resolve all these issues that we have been dragging for too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.201.0	Thank you, Mrs. Roldán. Next, to fix the position of the parliamentary group, has the word María Elisa García, of the Parliamentary Group VOX.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.202.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen: 'If you want to solve a problem, appoint a person responsible; if you want the problem to take forever, appoint a committee. This historic quote, attributed to Napoleon, has proved its correct every time a parliamentary committee has been set up in Catalonia to try to shed light on some matter. And in this thesis we find ourselves right now. Of course, it does not fail to draw attention to the fact that, instead of trying to reduce the political expenditure involved by a new committee, the presidents, vice-presidents and spokespersons, on the contrary, contemplate placing all those Members who have not yet passed through the box of the parliamentary plus, in order to ensure that this capital remains within the Parliament and never reaches the citizens' pocket, neither in the form of money nor in the form of services. You can always amend the Rules of Procedure and thus avoid direct expenditure arising from the formation of new committees. Look at you, mental health and addictions are included within the Health Council. The Health Council has extensive machinery, including the Ministry of Public Health, which, in accordance with article 11.2 of Law 13/1989 of 14 December, has the function of, inter alia, preparing studies of interventions on determinants of population health and establishing guidelines and priorities in the field of public health, and coordinating and monitoring both the implementation and implementation of health plans. And what does all this mean? As this secretariat, which comprises ten general sub-directories to sectorize Catalonia, has the task of identifying and studying health problems, including addictions and mental health, and proposing solutions, be they protocols of action or resources to cover the patient's deficiencies. On the other hand, there is the Maternal and Child Health Service, in which there is the Department of Action on Adolescents, whose special purpose, among others, is to study the psychosocial evolution of this group of patients. And finally, we arrived at the CatSalut, with seven health regions, each with its managers, its public health officials, adolescents... And within this, with a structure almost, as a mirror, is the Catalan Institute of Health. Look, there's one thing I totally agree with you with: this whole framework that is the Health Council is not working, or it's not helping to improve the mental health perspective in Catalonia. And we know this because there are objective data from observational studies that certify that there is an alarming increase in mental health pathology, especially in young people and especially in addictions. Without going further, attempts to autolysis minors have grown by 27_per_cent in 2020. There is also an upward prevalence in problem gambling figures and, in particular, in younger age groups according to a study by the Ministry of Health. And according to a meta-analysis performed at the beginning of the year, there is a clear increase in prevalence in depression, anxiety and posttraumatic stress following the covid. After all this, honestly, do you think that the solution is to create a commission, increasing political spending, with the same competences that four departments of the Health Council already develop? You see, the solution is not to set up another group of thinkers who walk through Parliament with their mental health cardet. The solution is to use the money of this commission that you want to create and other superfluous expenses of the Generalitat such as the Institute of Self-Government Studies or grants granted to the Nova Història Institute, for example, to integrate psychiatrists into primary care teams so that they can make an early diagnosis and adequate therapeutic follow-up. Or to invest the capital of the former presidents' offices and their living salaries in alleviating the great deficiencies that the Generalitat has around the acute eating disorders, where more than 50_per_cent of the income beds are from the private network. Or the 640,000_euros you allocate to the Language Platform, dedicate them to educational policies to implement effective prevention programs that avoid young people with addictions. Finally, change your goal: put mental health first and do not fill your pockets or your rupturist agenda. And, obviously, we will vote no. Because, if all the above were not enough, that we believe it is, it is that you have not even counted on us to sign this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.203.0	Next, since the Councillor of Salut has asked to intervene briefly, has the word Josep Maria Argimon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.204.0	Very briefly...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.205.0	I can do it from the escó, if I want to, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.206.0	If you'll allow me, yes, I'll do it very briefly and from the escó. To thank, to thank all the Members who have spoken and to all the groups in this committee. I think that this will be a commission that will give us fruits and above all fruits for whom it is to give them, that it is for people who at these times are painting a mental disorder. For another song, it has also been thought, but I do not want to stop doing it, the fact that the cove is making this whole situation worse, it is making it worse and mainly it is making it worse because of the por, the uncertainty, yes, but above all because the cove that leaves us is still much deeper social and economic inequalities than we had, it leaves them and will leave them, and this obviously impacts on salvation, salvation in general and much more particularly on mental salvation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.207.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Finally, then, the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution on the creation of the study committee on mental health and addictions. Let me remind you that we are voting on the original text presented for the parliamentary groups that have called for this creation. [[Pause.]] If the deputies go to the seats they have assigned, we will begin the vote. (Long break.) The vote begins. This motion for a resolution on the establishment of the committee was approved with 116 votes in favour, 11 votes against and... And now, 11 votes against. Therefore, this creation of commission is approved. [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a study commission on the protection of the Ebro Delta]] [[252-00004/13]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, the sixth, which is the proposal for the resolution of the creation of the study committee on the protection of the Ebre Delta. This proposal was submitted for the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra. Therefore, in order to present this initiative, we will start the debate with the proposed parliamentary group. The parliamentary groups that have proposed proposals will then intervene, and we will then open up the position for the rest of the parliamentary groups. Intervention turns will be two minutes for each group. At this point, I am guessing that the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can have withdrawn its reviews. Therefore, in the first place, has the word Republican Left Parliamentary Group and will make use of this turn of intervention the deputy Josep Lluís Saved.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.208.0	Thank you, Madam President. Councillor, Members, Members, well, on October 22, 2020, at the end of the last parliamentary term, in the plenary of this Parliament we unanimously approved a motion from the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left addressing the difficult situation of the Ebre Delta. The first point of that young man was trying to do an analysis and a rest of which was the situation at that time in the Ebro Delta – unfortunately, very similar to what we have at this time – and he was trying to make a rest of the causes and threats that are being endured and that we continue to paint. And it was said that the Catalonian Parliament denounced the situation of vulnerability of the Ebre Delta before the threats of climate change, the regression and the subsidisation caused by the lack of water lines of the river and the lack of supply of retained sediments to the reservoirs and to the alteration of the transport of marine sediments along the Catalan coast. Beyond this first point, he was involved in a _second point saying that « the Catalan Parliament considers that it is necessary to create a parliamentary committee of study for the protection of the Ebro Delta, with the aim of studying and following up the protection measures of this area. The legislature, as it had previously commented, ended shortly after this motion had been approved, and the commission could not be set up. Now that we are starting this new legislature, it seems essential to materialize that agreement to govern and to return the next step from the table, which would be what we plan to do today, which is to approve a motion for a resolution, which is to give little and to enable the creation of this committee of study. I will make some considerations of respect: why do we consider it necessary to create a committee to study here in the Parliament of Catalonia? First of all, because the dialog spaces, the inter-administrative work spaces that we have had so far have not been sufficient, nor have they been sufficiently efficient, nor have they certainly been sufficiently transversal. We have not been able to sum up the European vision, the vision of the State, the vision of the Generality, the vision of the productive sectors, the vision of environmental entities; and we need a space to sum up and to confront all the visions that interact and have a very important pes and skills in the space of the Ebro Delta. And we seem that the challenge we face is far too far-reaching, and today it is very necessary. And it is certain that we have other spaces, and the Government itself, the Government of the Generality, which has been at the disposal of the Commission for the Sustainability of the Lands of the Jews, an organ that has been inactive, or practically inactive, for a few years now, and that it is certain that the period from 2005 to 2010 has become a useful force for the territory and that it has had an important role in the deployment of the integral plan for the protection of the Delta. And it's certainly out of the question that this legislature may have a major role to play again, but it's an organ of the Generality. Among the fifty people who make up part of it, we have... we need many visions. And in this sense, we seem that it is good that, those visions that we need, we can incorporate them through a similar study commission, and especially that of the State, which, as you know, is the Administration that has the main skills in the field of the protection of the Ebro Delta. And someone could argue, with a lot of common sense, why we don't create this committee at the Congress of Deputies. And it is true, we have proposed it from the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, on the 28th February of the past year, a year and a half ago, and we are still hoping that between discussing 'the proposal we have brought to term; exactly as we went through the disaster of the Castor project, which was proposed the creation of the commission on various occasions, on the part of different parliamentary groups, both Catalan and Valencian, it ended up approving the Castor project commission in Madrid, and still waiting for it to be constituted. We would be pleased if this committee of study, which today I hope we can approve, could be used to help have a more transversal, more inclusive space, this space where we can find the gaze of the various administrations, which have an important role, in the area of the Ebro Delta. On the other hand, we also seem to note that the future of a space as important as the Ebre Delta does not follow only the thing of the territory, do not follow only the thing of the joints of the Ebre Delta, of the entities of the Ebre Delta; as it is not today a debate of local character the protection of the Llobrega Delta. Those of us who feel environmentally compromised, we also feel questioned today for the future and for the protection of the delta of the Llobregat; it is not just a debate of local character: the delta of the Ebra and the delta of the Llobregat are assets of the whole country. The Ebro Delta is the heritage of Catalonia. The Delta is, together with Doñana and the Occitan Camargue, one of the three most important aquatic ecosystems in Western Europe; they are the three most important in Western Europe, and obviously the Ebro Delta is the most important in Catalonia. In an extension of 320_kilometers_squares, the Delta is the third largest in the Mediterranean, after the Queen and Nile. It applies all the figures of protection of international character: it is recognized for the suitable Ramsar as an area humid of international importance; it is catalogued as a reserve of the biosphere for the program Mab of UNESCO; it is catalogued as ZEPA, as the zone of special protection for the aus, according to the Community directive of conservation of aus, and it is also a special zone of conservation as LIC, place of Community interest, according to the Community directive of conservation of habitats, and, as you know, also available of the recognition, on behalf of the Government of Catalonia, as the natural park, as the area of natural interest and as the natural reserve of wildlife. The Ebre Delta is the river, the sea is the river, it's the bathies, the platters, the dunes, the salobrars, the river forest, the bass, the river islands, the ullals, the brimstones, the canals, the bass fishing, the aquaculture. The Delta is the Trabucador, the Cannaise, the Tank, the tip of the Banya, the tip of the Fangar, the Buddha's Island, the Migjorn, the bass of the Olles, the bass of the Vell Canal, the Garxal. It is the confluence of the marine environment with the continental environment, where a wide and extensive variety of flora, fauna, ocells– 764 species of flora, about fifty species of fish, four hundred species of ocells– are confluenced with some of the most important sea ocell breeding colonies in the Mediterranean. And for all this, we seem to note that the debate about the future of the Ebre Delta does not only follow one thing of the territory, but also that it has an important role to play in the main democratic institution of our country, such as the Parliament of Catalonia. Some reflection on how we would like to work in this committee, and, like the Delta Member, I think I have some authority or legitimacy to ask all parliamentary groups to face this committee as an opportunity to facilitate consensus, to facilitate the dialogue, but above all to facilitate and try to help the momentum of the deployment of the essential measures for the protection of the Delta. We are playing the role of protecting one of the most important areas in the Mediterranean, and it seems to me that all folds can allow us to leave behind certainly partisan positions in order to prioritize the search for solutions. And similarly to what we did in 2005, when the European institutions, the Spanish institutions and the Catalan institutions were able to work together, and we managed to allocate 200_million euros to clear the Flix embassement. Without having removed the million tons of highly contaminated residues from the Flix tram of the Ebre River, today the Delta would be a much more vulnerable space, today it would be impossible to talk about recovering sediments from the embassements. So let's do what we did at that time again and try to reverse the Delta situation. The temporary Gloriamos caused the sea to enter up to three kilometres from the coast and showed us the fragility of the Delta today. We know that if we do not act quickly and forcefully, 50 percent of the Delta will disappear at the end of this century. When nature has taken thousands of years to create, humanity, if we don't repose it, we will end up destroying it in a few decades. The future of the delta, as you know, depends on the supply of complete liquids, complete solids, depending on the protection of the coast. And at this point, the Ministry for the Ecological Transition is in the process of processing two phonenal tools for its preservation: the Ebre Delta Protection Plan for one side, and the Ebre Basin Hydrological Plan for the period 2021-2027 for the other. It has been decades that the scientific community, that the technicians, are making studies that have put solutions to the table and that at these times we have the opportunity to start implementing. Now it's time to speed up big deals and take advantage of European foundations to implement solutions as quickly as possible. The Delta is a unique and extraordinary heritage of all Catalans and all Catalans, and it is our generation's responsibility to preserve it or, on the contrary, it will be our fault to let it lose. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.209.0	Next, to position himself on the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr. Joaquim Paladella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.210.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Counselor, deputies, deputies, put me here enough years ago that I didn't bid on it, huh? It's like you're pushing it again. I'm going to go up here to fix the position of the Socialists and Units Group to move forward with reference to the Republican Left Group's proposal for the creation of the specific committee to study the protection of the Ebre Delta. I would like to begin by saying that whenever a proposal is proposed here in Parliament or in any other forum that continues to look for something, a solution, useful so that the Ebre Delta continues to favor and that the hard problems that the Delta suffers cannot pull in and can be solved or some solution, we will be in favour of it. Therefore, we will vote in favour of both the proposal as well as the proposals that have been put forward and that today... are part of today's vote, and of the proposal made by Esquerra Republicana and the proposals that have been put forward by Juntes per Catalunya. That said, I would like to stand by the table, after hearing Mr Lluís Salvado, as well as to read in detail what has been the statement of the motion that makes reference and that gives basis to the motion for a resolution, and also to see the foreign processing, because papers were presented to the statement of the motion on behalf of the second party... well, of the party that also forms part of the government. Well, like at least, a surprise, isn't it? Because, aviam, when you think you want to do a commission, then you think you need to discuss the important, the basic, the transcendental, the object, the composition, how you'll talk, what you'll talk about, how long you'll talk about, right? But don't discuss the motius presentation. This makes us think, basically, that what they claim is a struggle for the report and, curiously, even a struggle for the report of the people who are part of the same government. That's where our people, Lluís, you know what we're talking about..., and so are the people of the Ebre. Let's go "try to blow up the pot, okay? And in that, we don't agree. We think that we have to do useful things, important for the territory and, in this case, especially for the Delta; a delta that also everyone in the territory feels like it, but the people of Catalonia also feel like it. And, therefore, I don't think that... and, moreover, the vulnerability that the Delta expresses, I don't think that it follows the most important, the struggle for the report, but that it must be the struggle for solutions and for express solutions and the best that we can achieve and consent for the Delta. That said, too, we presented a statement to the object. We wanted to expand the object and, in short, what we were going to do, on the one hand, was to recognize logically what had been done and what had not been done during all these years and during this time on the subject of finding a solution for the Delta and what had been done when there were problems with the Philomena and the Glory and everything that was being talked about here, and... But we tried above all to introduce a word, and a word that I think must be important and essential at the time of having and talking about the commission, and to develop the commission, which is the "collaboration, collaboration between the public administrations; between the Government of the Generality, the Government of the State, the municipal governments and the territory, if not in the territory? I also found it very strange that we did not accept it, because, if we are talking – and Lluís Salvado has said it very clearly – that... well, and we are willing, that the committee must be a committee of the dialog, why can't we talk about the dialog and the collaboration? That's weird, isn't it? It's strange and, more than that, it's absolutely necessary. If we are focused solely and exclusively on the report, if we are focused and do not want to collaborate between the institutions, the commission will only serve as a rhetoric and nothing to seek solutions nor to seek solutions needed and needed by the Delta. That is why we are betting on it and voting for it, despite the constraints I have said. We are voting in favour because we want you to follow a useful commission, we want you to follow a useful commission to the territory. And that's why the Juntes group had also submitted their compositional papers, and there had also been more of them or wanted to be more of them, what is the motive that can be discussed, and also the people who can be in the committee, us, logically, and in the sense of this construction, we will give support, because it cannot be otherwise. And we also announced that immediately after the composition of the committee, we would already ask that the committee could enter and form part of it as well as the chairman of the consensus table. It's absolutely necessary that they stay there. It is not only the parliamentary forces that must be there, as is expected, but we also want the highest political and technical expression of the consensus table to be represented here. And we are open to the participation in this committee to follow as wide as possible, as I said before, right? I would also like to point out – and it is basically to point out – that we are moving forward, and we are moving forward a lot. I think, when we hear it, at least, we're moving forward a lot in what the Delta solution is. That, well, a couple of weeks ago we were going to raise with the news that the minister of Ecologyc Transition, Teresa Ribera, had announced that the month of August we would have finally approved the plan of protection of the Delta, and that the six-hundred papers presented would be resolved, and also, and very important, that well..., and that his will was to stay ahead of the European foundation table and use European foundations to carry out this plan of protection, that it must be a plan plan and that it must give solutions as much technical as possible, but real, effective solutions to the Delta problem, which we have been dragging for many years. Certainly, Mr. Saved, there are six-centered allegations that..., or around six-centered allegations that have been resolved or resolved, aren't they? , not thousands of allegations, as his display of motius says, not thousands, six-cents; there are many– many. And considering this, many..., and the other day including the minister I said, many are repetitive, but others are absolutely contradictory. And that's what we'll find in the committee. And I think that's very important, don't you? , because the committee will have the obligation to evaluate, to look, to study, to do everything possible to ensure that solutions and what we speak here follow the most suitable for the Delta. And what is obvious is that on the territory and on the different proposals there are no important contradictions, and these we will find them here, and I think that with the best of the possible predispositions to do everything compatible and try to keep those who are favored follow the people of the..., follow the Delta itself and also the people who saw there, because we have to take into account, all the people who saw there. I would also like to make it clear that, well, he skipped these days..., he also skipped the news that the topography and sediment exhibition studies have begun; they will have a duration of three_months and a assumption of 1_million euros. It's also excellent news and it's more proof that we're moving forward and forward in the right direction. Therefore, we believe that wanting to do the commission is uncertain. We believe that..., and we are willing to study, to evaluate and to collaborate, whether or not you say what the arrangement of the agreement is today, and what is needed, and what we need to be able to talk about; collaboration will be accepted or not, it will be absolutely necessary. We want to stay in focus and we want to make it very clear and ask the Republican Esquerra Group to reconsider the admission or not and that we can still stand by the table what is our proposal, our proposal, but whether or not, as I said before, we will talk the same and work the same; I mean, what is obvious is that the solution will arrive for the cooperation of the administrations, the basic and essential collaboration between the Government of the Generality and the Government of the State, because, if not, we will not have, logically, a solution. And to the committee, as I said before, we will vote in favour, we will vote in favour of the papers, and we are willing to work, and to do the committee, and to work, to work with gain and, above all, to see if it is possible for all of us to give a solution that follows the most uncertain possible and this committee serves to solve many of the problems we have in the Ebre Delta, and above all the people of the Ebre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.211.0	Then, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word "Mr. Damià Calvet".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.212.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillor, Members, Members, I believe that the Ebre Delta is worthy of this commission of the Parliament of Catalonia. The people of the Ebre Delta, the great people, the young people, the children, who live and who are to continue living in the Ebre Delta; the economic activities that are produced in the Delta, following from the primary sector, following from the industrial sector, from the servants, from the world of tourism, which has an import, therefore, very high in which is the natural ecosystem and the humanity of the Delta; the people of the Delta, obviously: Delta, Sant Jaume, the Ampolella, the Aldea, Camarles, Amposta, the Ràpita and the rest of the towns and cities of the Ebre Lands; the natural inhabitants of the Ebre Delta, the biodiversity of the Delta, the Delta, the Camarles, Amposta, the Ràpita and the rest of the towns and cities of the Ebre Lands; the natural habitats of the Ebre Delta, the biodiversity of the Delta, the life of the Delta, ultimately, the river, the meadows, the meadows, the pastures, the pastures, the pastures, the pastures, the pastures, the pastures, the pastures, the pastures, the trees. At the presentation of the motion of the creation proposal of the commission are analyzed and various figures are exposed: surface, population, river, cubic metres of sediments, activities that are also produced in the same Delta. It is also a fan of historical references: of the bases, of its effect on the whole, on the quality and the contribution of sediments through the propi rius, of the effect of this lack of sediments, of fact, history, on the morphology of the Delta, which, therefore, logically is also affected by the natural coastal dynamics; without proper nor pro-sediments, it has produced, obviously, regression, subsistence and also loss of biodiversity. [[Pause.]] I don't think I'm running out of time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.213.0	Now I've seen it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.214.0	I love it, huh? But go... [[The timer laughs. Widow's remorse.]] It is also a reference to the effect, for example, of the transfer managed by the Consortium d'Aigües de Tarragona, but in this case to remember that it served, that serves, in fact, that serves to modernize and optimize the service of the infrastructures of the primary sector, of the Regs. It is also a reminder of the extreme meteorological events that we have experienced these past years, each time more frequent, each time more intense; this is an unequivocal sign of the climate change that threatens us. It refers to the climate change and the consequences it actually has. We're always talking about climate change, we're not talking about the future, we're talking about the presence and affect of this climate change in the Delta. They are good basic references to this proposal for the creation of the committee; a proposal for the creation of this committee which is a substance today, but before that was explained by the deputy Lluís Salvadó, it was presented in due course by the Group of the Republican Left at a time of social tension because of the lack of answers offered by the administrations, or, precisely, for some of the answers offered by some administrations. But I want to remind you that the 2020 generation, after Gloria, the consensus table went forward, in fact, and gave a few punches on the table, said enough, demanded answers, demanded solutions of urgency, but also at medium and long term. That day at Sant Jaume d'Enveja there were all of us, captivating the government's committee President Torra, and we listened; a consensus table formed for the seven municipalities that I have previously linked, the two communities of rulers; they are the indispensable actors to be able to make a diagnosis and a set of coherent executive proposals to face the future of the Delta. And after that day, there were more bilateral meetings, with more parts, but in any case, that was used to engineer, I am afraid to say that definitively, unequivocally, a way of working different from the previous ones: from low to high, with more technical and scientific contributions from the region – that is very important – and with more pressure, why not say so? He pressured them to take over. Emergence and urgency are very common words when we talk about the Ebro Delta. He was talking about attention, he was talking about pressure, about assuming it. Sometimes it wasn't comfortable, huh? I myself, as a counselor of what was the Department of Territories and Sustainability, continuing the work of the legitimate advisor, of friend Josep Rull, great connoisseur also of the natural ecosystem and humanity of the Delta, I assumed it on many occasions. There was much debate, for example, whether or not the Generality should immediately bring smiles – so, economic resources – and from the department we insisted – something that Mr Lluís Salvado has also repeated – that the competitions are from the State, and therefore the projects and the money must be from the State. And we showed all the world's willingness to provide the resources needed to increase the supply of the actions that the competent Administration had to do – let's go back there, the State – but on some occasion it says: "Wear sorra trucks. And I said, "We can't; in public contracts, that's not how it went. But we repeated that we wanted and could join forces. And, in fact, the proposal we see today also repeats it, itself, textually. At the same time, we warned, at those meetings that the Councillor Jordan and I on many occasions shared, that the key of all folded were the two strategic planning documents that, again, prepared the State, proving that effectively the competitions are from the State; we talked about the hydrological plan and the protection plan. I say it in the castle because they are documents – I insist again, the competitions are theirs – of the State. And we said, "Ull, that here is the key of everything – here is the key of everything. The next day of the presentation of the document of the table of consent to Sant Jaume, the next day, the ministry presented a « schema of important matters as planned to which is the hydrological plan. In Sant Jaume there was the president of the CHE, but at that time she did not say or quote. I myself warned the members of the consensus table of the existence of this document. At that time it was all a bit of a disproposal, and I repeat "disproposal because although we tried from the government, from the government and the table, that those planning documents are written and are present together, and although at some point there was a certain compromise on the part of the heads of the ministry, of the other heads of the ministry, to do so, in the end there was no way. The State presented its documents, its planning documents, that of the river, that of the coast, and caused new negative reactions. At that of the river, for the lack of compromises in full, in sediments, in water quality. Without this we can never talk about protecting the Delta, which I made clear. Without cabal, without sediments, without water quality we will never be able to talk about protecting the Delta. And the protection plan..., which was neither a plan nor a protection; it was not a plan because there was no presupposition or calendar, and it was not a protection because it was foreseen, in fact, a return to the sea. These documents have been used, with allegations, with observations, hundreds, from the territories and from the Government of the Generality. Again, I'm sure you've been more unitary in the proposal, but in any case they have returned. And that is to say, and I say it with all sincerity too, that the reaction of the State to these observations and these considerations has been positive; the willingness to dialogue, the willingness to find sustainable solutions via these planning documents, has clearly been expressed, unequivocally, with dialogue, with dialogue. Mr Paladella explained that these urgent actions of translocation of sorres have also begun to protect the coastal line in a straight way; he says and repeats that it is "directed because what is planted, in fact, is to bring back, with technical means, with human means, with economic means, with investments, the dynamic natural coastline. It's what we're going to have to do when there's not enough complete and enough sediments brought to the property naturally; urgent actions and structural measures in the medium and long term. Therefore, in this context I believe that this commission, it has been said, will actually be useful – it will be useful. He's studied a lot, he's debated a lot. Sometimes the people of the Delta tell us: "Menys study and fewer commissions and more actions. And they're right. But before I said that, fortunately, the consensus table is an unequivocal, indefatigable, definite path, huh? , this low to high, starting from scientific documentation and advancing with dial. And the dialog does not mean that we all agree, but it will be impossible, in any case, in the own committee and in the day-to-day of this dialog we will surely find the paths forward. Therefore, I repeat, this committee will be useful, it will have to work quickly, it will have to work effectively – it will certainly be able to do so, at least this is our will – to give, say, scope of sight, also the European, to propose measures, to follow it up, to give continuity to the attention on the Ebre Delta, to compromise us, to compromise, to compromise with the Ebre Delta. I feel compromised with the Ebre Delta, I feel representative of the Ebre Delta, although I have not been born or lived there. The Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia is committed to the protection, defence and survival of the Ebre Delta. This is why we have presented a series of papers, to further improve the initial proposal; this is the will. A task to introduce the assemblies into the normal functioning of the commission, this is a topic for us; some issues relating to concrete actions in Deltebre, which are also very important to be able to sectorize the Delta and act with more rigour, and some issues on the non-availability side of the proposal to complete, Mr Paladella, to complete the report, effectively, of this one. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We present papers to the non-disposive party to complete the report. Our exams are of sum, not of struggle. If you see it fighting and not adding up, and that's how you point it out, maybe it's you who want to bully the pot. We have seen reports from other groups, such as the common ones, which seem to have ended up withdrawing, or that of the Socialist Group, which I sincerely believe that they recall that good will that I spoke of before respecting the position of the State – they have not been able to deal with – but I insist, I insist, that it demonstrates this will to follow the path of consensus. After these items and these wills have to be translated into concrete actions. We will vote in favour and work from the first moment on this committee compromises in the protection and defense of the Ebre Delta. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.215.0	Thank you very much. Finally the rest of the parliamentary groups have a single turn of intervention of two minutes to position themselves. Now the word "Mrs. Isabel Lázaro", from the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.216.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Ebro Delta there is an indisputable environmental emergency that requires urgent action. The various national and autonomous governments have never been interested in solving the problems of our Delta until now, in what seems like a new political maneuver to win supporters and little more. The plan for the protection of the Ebro Delta presented by Minister Ribera, which will be approved in August, sentences the Delta to death. It is a cosmetic proposal for citizens to see that something is done that they intend to leave the coast as the sea progresses, contrary to the Bureau of Consensus and the people of the Delta as a whole. It is so irrational such a pretension that we can only think of the existence of hidden interests, by the way, very well endowed economically. Ladies and gentlemen of the Catalan Republican Left, supposedly familiar with the area, what is your plan, beyond setting up a committee of study? You have been ruling for years and have done absolutely nothing for the Delta. The Catalan Government, despite implying otherwise, bets on the same as the Government of the nation. The question of control to the government raised by the deputy of Republican Left, Mrs Pujol, on the 9th in Congress referred to how much and when. Both are very important, but so important is what, and this is where both governments seem to coincide. In the various meetings that we held with the people of the Delta and in which we held with some members of the Bureau of Consensus for the Delta, they transmitted to us their proposal, which can be carried out immediately and which consists of a massive movement of sands extracted from the seabed through powerful dredges to give to the non-existent beaches of the Delta that width they had fifty or seventy years ago, returning the important environmental function that these beaches have and avoiding flooding, regression and marine intrusion in the coastal wetlands. This proposal is being carried out with great success in all the countries of Europe, in the face of this climate crisis which not only affects the Ebro Delta. It is an economically viable, environmentally sustainable, immediate and effective implementation proposal. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we have been doing expensive studies for fifty years without them being used for anything; full shelves for not implementing any solution demonstrate the disinterest in resolving the Delta problem and the interest in using resources for nothing. It's good to waste time, it's all studied. There is a solution and we must now apply it as a matter of urgency if we do not want the largest wetland in our esteemed Catalonia and one of the most important in Europe to disappear. We need action, commitment from the Generalitat. They agree with the Government of the nation as they do with other things; they exercise the enforcement competence granted by article 149.3b of the Statute of Autonomy, because their inaction and the unfulfilled promises of recent years have led to the practical disappearance of the Delta beaches and their important environmental function. The biodiversity of the Delta can disappear in a matter of months in the face of a new marine storm-like storm Gloria, which would again swallow the Ebro Delta and accelerate its collapse by flooding the rice fields again, becoming a salt water estuary that would entail the irreversible loss of this wetland and the absolute economic ruin for the area. The Delta, given its peculiarity, has centuries-old traditions. It is therefore urgent to take action, because the socio-economic losses would be irrecoverable: losses of agricultural activity, fishing and tourism, a loss of a single way of life, a way of life, the way of life they have in the Delta. Finally, we will vote 'no to the establishment of this study committee, which entails a political overrun and is technically unnecessary, given the existence of the Commission for Climate Action, and in the field of the natural environment and biodiversity this issue should be addressed. Friends of the Hebrew regions, the eleven of VOX will be very eager to listen to you, to give you voice and to work to preserve your natural park and your way of life. Ladies and gentlemen, since VOX we have demanded urgent and effective action; stop wasting your time talking and get to work. Finally, to say that we will vote 'no to the constitution of this study, which entails a political overrun and is technically unnecessary. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.217.0	Next is the word Laia Estrada, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle to Win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.218.0	Thank you, President. We all know what the problems of the Ebre Delta are, so we find ourselves in the situation where we find ourselves right now; we are only making policies on the coast, we are not practically doing anything else, where there is the real problem – sediments and completes; we lack sediments because they are confined to the reservoirs of the conca, especially that of Mequinensa and Riba-Roja. The problem of sea level rise due to climate change, the increase in regadius and transfers both to Catalonia, promoted for all governments of the Generality, as in the rest of the basin, promoted for the majority of governments of the different autonomous communities. The fact that neither the Ebre Delta nor the Ebre Lands has been a priority, a fact that, unfortunately, is demonstrated when the members of the present government, the same as the previous government, have had to invest 50_million euros in a regadiu, the Xerta-Sénia, in which 91_million dollars have already been invested, when neither the page nor the territory has been asked for, but the investment is basically responsible for the interests linked to public works and the water market. This, this mortuary, faces the €6_millions that envisaged the Generality's 2020 assumptions for applying protection and conservation measures to the Ebre Delta and that have not been implemented. The systematic grips of the Catalan and Spanish governments, such as the Comprehensive Plan for the Protection of the Ebre Delta, which has not yet been developed for the past few years, despite the fact that policies have been compromised to implement it with imminence; the lack of a hydrological policy of the Catalan and Spanish governments, in favour of river ecosystems such as the Ebre River and its Delta; and the fact that the Catalan and Spanish governments have prevailed over the economic interests of agro-industry and the multinationals of electricity and water, as well as the lobbyists of public works, over the interests of the population, pages and ecosystems. Therefore, what we have is more regal, more transvasions, more embassements, less sediments than, together with the climate change, brings us to the death of the Ebre Delta. There's no more. If we look at the statement of reasons for this motion for a resolution in order to create this committee, basically, it talks about the responsibilities of the Spanish State and does not surprise us, taking into account the minimal importance that you have attached to the electoral programme, in your electoral programmes in the past autonomous elections, which was the defence and protection of the Delta. Practically, we want to remind you that neither Esquerra Republicana nor Juntes per Catalunya referencing how you would protect the Ebre Delta, although this was one of the great hits in the electoral campaign, the acts, the rallies. By this we do not intend to accuse them of indifference to the Delta, but to show what we consider to be a constant in their way of doing: to avoid their own responsibility. It is to say, it is obvious that the State has a good share of responsibility in the situation of the Ebre Delta, but it is not less certain that the Generality also has a good share of responsibility, such as the lack of concreteness in the Ebre Delta Management Board, for which it does to the sediments. And, in this sense, we consider it incongruent to denounce that the Government of the State does not want to approve the necessary environmental comprehensives at the end of the river, when the same Government of the Generality – and, more concretely, the Republican Left – promotes and approves water withdrawals from the river to the same tram, as is the already mentioned operation in the Xerta-Sénia channel. You have no sense, either, that the transfers are denounced as approved the year passed for the government of the PSOE and of Podemos to Cantàbria, through the Consortium... Forgive, and that is consolidated, right? , which is denounced this operation and which is now consolidated and expanded the transfer of the river Ebra through the Consortium of Waters of Tarragona, as we have seen with the expansion of water concessions to the Conca de Barbera and, most recently, to the Lower Camp. So the reality is that he does years of inaction with disastrous consequences. It has been years since we have seen the consequences of the refusal to change the hydrological policy of the Jewish Conca and the refusal to implement solutions that today everyone knows are effective, such as the mobilization of necessary sediments to stop the regression, to complete the ecological ends, to halt the enlargement of the Ebra Conca, to reverse the transitions progressively, to complete the European Union Watermark Directive and, presumably, to dissolve the Tarragona Watermark Consortium; to require, in fact, the Tarragona Watermark Consortium to redo a plan of return of the horses that ended with the mini-transmission of the Ebra to Tarragona and, in the past, to finish. We, in addition, add the need to become a republic so that the conca de l'Ebre will become an international conca and that the Spanish State will have to agree on hydrological policies in order to impose them, because we could have the European Union's watermark directive prevail in the conca de l'Ebre. And despite all this inaction, despite all the pleas, we would certainly vote in favour of the creation of this committee, because, first of all, we think that it is still in line with the agreement that Esquerra Republicana therefore took with the UPC and that we demand it from the totality of the government, that it is to promote the Comprehensive Plan of Protection of the Ebre Delta to guarantee its future implementing measures on sediments and transvasions. Secondly, because you propose the creation of this commission and specify that you will follow the measures of protection of the Ebro delta proposed and promoted by the competent administrations. And that means that, although we understand that I have more interest in talking about what other administrations do or do not do, we will also talk about what the Generalitat does or does not do, which also has competence over some of the solutions that we have set out to them. And if that's not the case, then we ask them to tell us, because we would vote accordingly, but that's how they let us know. And, lastly, we would vote that yes, because they provide for the possibility that there will be technical specialists, members of the public and for us it is important that the EDP, the Platform for the Defence of the Hebrews, can come here to Parliament to be able to express directly their complaints and their proposals for solutions, which is the same, in short, as they say years ago, without obtaining answers beyond the declarations of good intentions and, yes, beyond the many photos they make to the mobilizations. And from then on, what we understand we have to do is, in the first place, listen to what the Defence Entities of the Ebre Delta, the Ecological Entities and the Scientific Community say to us, logically. I can't go through the same thing that happened with the Delta Consensus Table, which expelled all this huge share of agents in the defense of the Jew. Secondly, we need facts, not just proposals for resolutions, appearances, motions or commissions; we need concrete policies, actions and actions that are already felt in the territory. This commission cannot push with the sole objective of saying that all the fault of the Delta's problem is the government of the state. We know what he's doing and he stops doing the Spanish government. It is necessary to assume responsibilities on the part of the Government of the Generality, as well as of the administrations, as is the same Diputación de Tarragona, governed by Esquerra Republicana. And, in addition, this means that in this committee there is power to debate the effects of the Delta which has the regadius policy applied by the Generality, as well as the affectation on the same Delta, which has the transfer of the Ebra through, as I have previously stated, the Consortium d'Aigües de Tarragona and the transfer of the Siurana river to the Pantá de Riudecanyes. And, of course, we understand that this committee cannot be used to put an end to those urgent actions that take place from now on, such as putting an end to the transfer project from the Hebrew River to the Barberà Basin, such as the need to make a public report on all the works and projects related to the Barberà Basin transfers, and to incorporate, in addition, the intervention criteria and costs. Let's think that we already have to work for the gradual dissolution of the Tarragona Water Consortium and draft this plan of return of completes to put aside the mini-transmission of the Ebra to Tarragona. And, supposedly, from now on, we must lead the defense of the Jewish river and the Ebre Delta in the processing and approval of the National Hydrological Plate 2021-2027, listening and prioritizing the claims of the ecological collectivities and the collectivities and entities in defense of the Ebre, which carry their whole life giving their face and laying the body for the defense of what we consider to be one of the greatest natural heritages we have. And lastly, what do we have to do now together with listening to entities, with facts that wander beyond these declarations of good intentions and the creation of commissions? Consistency. We ask for consistency in parallel with all this work that we can develop in this committee. Do you want to defend the full-fledged ecologists? So it's not just what he does to the Hebrew river. We remind them, just to set a small example, worrying her, the difficult situation that the Siurana river is experiencing. And they want to defend the Ebre Delta? So this will is also manifest respect for the rest of the deltas. Because, without going any further, today you are defending a project such as the expansion of the airport and also the port that directly threatens another delta, that of the Llobregat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.219.0	Thank you very much. Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Common May, has the word Mr. Jordi Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.220.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, first of all I would like, as the new Member of this Parliament, to express his gratitude to all those people who supported us in the past elections both at Camp de Tarragona and at the Lands of the Jews. And also express my satisfaction because in this first intervention that I participate from the Faristol I do it talking about the delta of the Ebro and its protection. It is clear that the protection of the Delta and its survival are totally important for the southern regions of Catalonia, but I think it is also important for the country as a whole. Because we do not forget that the Ebre Delta is a unique paradise in Catalonia, it is the third most important delta in the Western Mediterranean and all its heritage, in all areas – cultural, landscape, biodiversity, among others – it must be protected as a maximum good, as a common good of our country, of Catalonia. The Ebre Delta is the largest wet zone in Catalonia, which includes one of the most important aquatic ecosystems in Europe, with an extension of 320,000 square meters, which acull, too, must be said, almost all the environmental protection figures that exist, are also recognized as apart from the biosphere reserve by UNESCO. And there are also various European directives that have an impact, such as water, habitat and water. And, the Delta, we don't have to forget that if it has these high ecological values and it's converted today into what it is, it's mostly thanks to the water supply and the sediments of the Ebro River at the length of the centuries. Similarly, in the case of agricultural activity, above all the cultivation of the land, mainly, and also others such as fishing or aquaculture. Now, if the Ebre delta is already a fragile system, there are two elements that the fan perilar: human action and its management, for one band, and the climate emergence, for the other. Both elements have accelerated the need to act, regulate and protect this natural space that each time faces more dangers. For what it does to the first element, to human action, basically, the construction of pantans and also regadius throughout the hydrographic conca of the Ebra, and, therefore, to Catalonia and to the rest of the autonomous communities, the construction for decades has caused there to be a complete insufficient ecological in the final section of the river and the Delta, causing the deterioration of this one and avoiding the necessary contribution of sediments, which makes it difficult to the same physical stability of the Delta, its ecosystems and economic activities. We must remember that the lack of complete ecologics on the final tram of the river Ebre has been repeatedly denounced for the scientific community, for the Platform in Defense of the Ebre and for various institutions such as the Parliament of Catalonia. And in this sense, we also remember the motion that was approved in the previous legislature. The lack of completeness has to be added to the lack of sediments, as we say, at the mouth. Different scientific studies warn that during this century 45_percent of the surface of the Delta will remain below the sea level due to the subsidence between one and five thousand annual boundaries and a rise of the sea level which is now close to four per year, and will accelerate as a result of the climate change. Because, certainly, as we say before, climate emergency, climate change is the second great element that perils our Delta with the rise of the sea level, threatening its survival, and turning it into one of the most threatened natural and human spaces in Europe for this phenomenon. Therefore, we are talking about the largest wet zone in Catalonia, which has a lack of complete ecological, a lack of sediments for the reservoirs and for the regadius, and a great threat to climate change with the growth of the sea. But we cannot forget another phenomenon that is also the fruit of human action: transvasions. Beyond all the attempts that have existed during decades and that have not been successful, we must remember that today there is no force and the most important is the nickname "mini-transmission to Tarragona", managed by the Consortium d'Aigües de Tarragona, the CAT, in which they report to the Government of the Generality. In this sense, in our opinion, it will be warm, as they defend the Platform in Defense of the Jews and many movements, which is progressively reducing this transfer from the principles of the new culture of water and efficiency, as has been done, for example, or is being done to the Third, with a historical agreement. For another band, the recovery and transport of sediments to the mouth is technically feasible, as demonstrated in other countries. And, in fact, there are different studies carried out for UPC and IRT that show that with an annual contribution of the order of a million to the mouth you could face the combined threat of subsidence and sea growth. The Government of the State had studies in this sense that talk about the sediments of Mequinensa and Riba-red. In fact, this very week, the Ministry for the Ecological Transition has carried out the first topographical studies and sampling of sediments for the cartographic work with which it will study the mobilization of sediments in the delta of the Ebro. The fragile balance under the Delta due to the lack of water and sediments must also be remembered that it was made worse by the impact of the storms Gloria and Filomena, causing the entrance of sea water three kilometres from the Delta, flooding and salinizing more than three thousand hectares of reddening with great damage to the plateau of the Lower Arena, swallowed up by the saltwater, or the disappearance of the platter of La Marquesa, the flood of Riumar or of the Buddha Island or also the trench of the Trabucar. These last spaces, of great ecological value. And also to the salinization of the camps to add to it the destroyers and the lost millions that were produced in the aquaculture sector. Therefore, it is clear that it is urgent to act as various sectors, from the Regents, the Regant communities, the municipal world, but also for actors such as the Platform in Defense of the Jews and the ecological entities, who carry years of teaching about the need to act on long term, changing the model of development and taking advantage of water resources in a different way. We also want to remember that 2020 was approved a campaign in the Parliament of Catalonia, in this chamber, where 6_million euros were incorporated because the Government of the Generalitat carried out various actions of protection measures to the Delta, actions that ultimately did not last long. And we also have to remember, for another band, that the Ministry of Economic Transition has begun a period of public consultation of a first outburst of the Pla for the protection of the Ebre Delta, a outburst – it has already been said before – that has covered many connections from the territory and, therefore, we also think, in this sense, that it is necessary to seek and absolve all the consensus to achieve all the objectives that the Delta deserves. In this sense, from our group we support the creation of this study committee. Our intention is that this commission is used to act before the emergency of protection that deserves the delta of the Jew, but we also want to say that it is necessary, in our opinion, that this work is done with a spirit of collaboration, of collaboration without partyism, that really remains useful taking into account all, absolutely all, the agents of the territory and also, obviously, all the administrations involved. There is, at these times, for example – and before it was said – the opportunity of European foundations, in this line. We think that this is the only way, acting with a constructive will, to achieve shared objectives, thinking of a short, medium and long-term look to protect our Delta. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.221.0	Next, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr. Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.222.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, councillor, lords and lords deputies. We have put to debate and vote this proposal for the creation of a study commission on the protection of the Ebro Delta. This protection of the Ebre Delta is a recurring theme in which public institutions, as well as those of the Generality, are towing. Those who live and work in the Ebre Delta are affected by the inaction and desire of the political and technical leaders of the administrations of the State, the central and autonomous Catalan. The Group of the Republican Left, in accordance with the statutory forecast, presents to us this proposal, which calls for the creation of a specific committee for the study of the protection of the Ebro Delta which will object to the study and follow-up of the protection measures of the Ebro Delta before the threats of the regression, the subsidence, the lack of tails of the river and the consequences of the climate change proposed and promoted for the competent administrations and for the territorial and environmental entities. Is this a question worth studying in this Parliament? The answer is an unappealable yes. Do public policies that can directly or indirectly affect the protection of the Ebro Delta depend exclusively on this Parliament or on the institutions of the Government of Catalonia? The answer, we have to say it because if we can't get people mixed up, it's a no-round. In view of the threats that the delta ecosystem continues to pose, is it appropriate to create a specific commission for the study of the protection of the Ebro Delta? We have to say yes, sense doubt. Will the conclusions of this study committee make a decisive contribution to protecting the Ebro Delta? In this case, let me put it in doubt. Why do I doubt it? Because the proposal comes from the hands of a parliamentary group, the Republic, which has had a decisive influence and a direct involvement in the Government of the Generality beyond the last three legislatures, since Mas and Junqueras signed the governance agreement on 19 December 2012. In these legislatures, the Ebro Delta, like other important questions that concern and affect the Catalans' conjunction, has never been a priority issue for Esquerra, nor for Esquerra, brought with it specific situations in which it has seen the possibility of removing 'electoral revenue, neither for Convergence nor any of the marks that are heresy in it. The priority has always been to confront the other institutions of the State and to pass through the victims of an oppressive state. That's enough for them to see that they were ruling these last three legislatures. Therefore, let me be skeptical about good faith at the time of putting this committee on the market when it comes to the hands of a parliamentary group that governs and that of this particular issue, of the Ebro and the Delta, it has not made much of a partisan, seeking to undermine victimism and institutional confrontation, a sure way to hinder agreement with the other administrations involved. The statement of reasons for this motion for a resolution gives some clue to the respect: it is aimed directly at the institutions, to which it is intended to discharge the exclusive responsibility of the current situation and the risks of the future facing the Ebro Delta; it is aimed at the human action at the hydrographic conca, as if it were not permissible for a water resource of the import of the Ebro River, at the length of its course, to be profited with less or more rationality for humans who like to keep it close; but also, obviously, it is aimed at the implementation of a hydrological plate of the Ebro Basin that establishes poor ecologically sound lines for the end of the river and the Delta as a main cause of the deterioration of the Delta. Many paragraphs of the Motius exposition are dedicated to building this paradigm: if the Ebre Delta is in danger it is for human action to the upstream hydrographic conca and because there is a manifest will of the Ebre Hydrographic Confederation to harm the future of the ecosystem and of the Delta conreus. I hope that the groups that give direct or indirect support to the Government of the Generality to the conclusions of this committee of study that today propose to us from the Government, via Grup Parlamentari d'Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya. The Junts for Catalonia and In Comú can, finally withdrawn, are predictable and superfluous. Of the seven presentations presented by Juntes and Podemos, five refer to questions of stylistic or ideological fall to the presentation of motius. At this point, I must state in this House, and specifically to the Bureau of Parliament, that the motions for resolutions to be dealt with, in accordance with Rule 168 of the Rules of Procedure, may include a statement of reasons, as is the case in most cases, and also in the case of this motion for a resolution, and they must include a operative part which is in fact the proposal which is subject to debate and vote, and which, in the case of specific committees, among which the committees of study together with this one, are regulated by Rule 63.3 of the Rules of Procedure. During the parliamentary process, statements of reasons that may contain motions for resolutions are not subject to debate and vote. Therefore – and this is my specific consideration at the Bureau of Parliament – I do not think they should be objected to; I believe that the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left rejected them, but I would like to make it known to the Bureau, and specifically to the President of the Parliament, that neither the statement of reasons nor the documents submitted may be object of vote in this House; therefore, the documents should not have been processed. The efforts of the leading groups, from Junts per Catalunya and En Comú Pode, so as to leave their ideological commitment to the presentation of the reasons for this motion for a resolution, I know hard, has been unnecessary and useless. That said, apart from the fact that the group of In Comú We can talk with the consensus table about his view of the minitransmission that carries water from the Ebra to Camp Tarragona. Most likely it will be a little coincident with the vision of those who live and work in the Ebre Delta and who enjoy the contributions of money made by the Consorci d'Aigües de Tarragona and who, lacking other resources, serve, and much, to maintain and improve the infrastructures that make life and the whole Delta possible. It would also be good if the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, which presented an adjunct to the Commission's object, were not so enthusiastic about the Ebro Delta Protection Plan – or the Ebro Delta Protection Plan – as it would have been about its Ebro Delta. The Delta must be preserved and maintained its current morphology and work to recover as soon as possible the morphology that it had only thirty years ago, and this does not only pass through a study commission in this Parliament, which compromises and collaborates between central and autonomous public administrations. Because there is an undeniable reality: the Ebro Delta is in peril, in a very dangerous situation for its subsistence as one of the ecosystems and natural spaces with a more sustainable agrarian and fishing advantage of the Mediterranean. And part of the current situation derives, to be sure, from the action of the man, but it is also, and above all, due to the inaction of the public administrations responsible, in particular the central and autonomous governments. The Government of Spain seems to be willing not to act decisively against the retreat of the maritime zone and that it is decided that the hand of the man does not repair what the hand of the man has spat. And the Government of the Generality, because it has also been in this strategy of leaving in the hands of nature, in the hands of the constant rise of the sea level, of the storms, the future of the Delta. Because this is the historical position of the Environment Technicians of the Generality, and the pages, the regants, and the members of the consensus table, that's very clear. As far as possible, the sediment supply can be recovered; yes, but this is not enough. What is needed, and very urgently, is to put a thread into the needle and begin to execute a new integral plan of protection of the Delta, which is not what the Government of Spain has presented and which has nothing to do with the vision that has come from the Government of the Generality. Cal ingenuity, economic resources and materials, working hard to prevent the recoil of the Delta coast and to preserve its natural spaces. It is important that the hand of man act decisively to fix what the hand of man has spat, in this, they can hold it for sure, they can find us; in this company, to save the real delta of the Jew, Ciutadans will be today, tomorrow and always in this Parliament, in the General Courts and in the European Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.223.0	Next, and on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.224.0	Yes, thank you, President. The truth is, I'm going to be very short on this intervention, it's what comes next. And, in fact, there has been a thorough diagnosis of the deficiencies, the needs and the threats that the Ebro Delta is experiencing, and I don't think I need to do this inventory again, because, in addition, we agree with all the groups. We may not agree on the solutions, and that's why we think this study committee is necessary. We have already advanced that from our group we will vote in favour of this committee, but I do care a little, after listening to some of this morning's speeches, for what this committee will serve. I have to say that Mr Calvet's speech has left me alone, because it seems that the Generality has no skills or responsibilities in everything that is going on here and, in fact, in all the intervention, so it has referred to the competitions of Madrid, to the shortcomings of Madrid, to all the problems that he sees of Madrid, which is obvious; it is obvious that the competitions, many of them, are state-owned, and this is evidence, I do not want to repeat it so much. But it's also obvious that things didn't work out here. It is also obvious that here there was a bad management, a bad management on the part of the different governments of the Generalitat. And I want to remember – and so did the company of the commons – the famous 6_million presupposed for the storm. See what we're doing with these extended assumptions. I also want to remember how the Generalitat lost the €4.6 million in aid that was approved from Madrid and that here is absolutely nothing, because you have a system of subsidies that in the end seems that no one can access it. And so, man, it's very good that we cry and bite the crest when it touches, but it's also very good that one assumes his own responsibilities, especially because I think that if there's no understanding between the administrations, we can't do anything at all. And I think that this was also one of the big problems: having a government of the Generality locked in a band, which does not want to talk to the government of the State, when, I insist, sometimes it is urgent questions like the one we are dealing with here on the issue of the Ebre Delta. Therefore, I hope that this committee is not just a committee to highlight what is wrong with Madrid, but that we are talking about everything, that we are trying to find solutions and that we are looking for this entity and this collaboration between administrations, which is so necessary. Because, in addition, we have problems that we have been flushing them for a long time, with structural shortcomings, with requests from the territories, who feel abandoned. It's not the first time we've talked about the delta here, and, besides, I'm still saying, right? The consensus that there seems to be when we identify the problems, and that means that there is an entity, but then, at the time of truth, the territory feels abandoned, feels disembarked. Why? Because we talk, we talk, we come here, we ask questions, we ask motions, but then it is not concrete in absolute terms. In fact, the creation of this committee does not involve an inquiry by the Republican Left which was made in the later legislature with his deputy, who therefore agreed to this committee. But, of course, at that time the Republican Left was already in the Government of the Generality. Maybe you didn't want to make an inquiry to ask yourself and decide to make a study commission. Right now, the presidency of the Generality also rests in Republican Left. I may have to do a little more, I insist, that this study committee, that for another band seems necessary to me. We need to listen to the experts, we need to listen to the territory, the consensus table, entities that have been working for a long time on this issue and which, moreover, have needs, not only structural ones, but also urgent ones. I don't think it's any use to all of us rushing to the Delta to visit it when we have, therefore, problems that we have experienced like the portada, the temporary Gloria or the temporary Filomena, which may not have affected the Delta so much, but yes, the Ribera d'Ebre – we have the councillor here – and, in fact, these aids are already being processed, especially for the issue of olive trees, and I think that this is very positive. And when things do well, too, we say so, but for the sake of these visits, make promises, promises that the former president of the Generality has already made. And, therefore, it means that the Generality had competitions, because, if not, it does not serve to make any promises, if one does not have competitions, Mr. Calvet. And what it takes to translate these promises that are made in critical moments like the temporary ones... that are then translated into something and concrete in some measure. He said that the temporary Philomena may not have done the wreckage that Gloria did, but it is a cumulative effect. And, besides, it gives us the idea that this isn't a timely atmosphere, but surely, from then on, so we'll have more of that kind of phenomena, that can cause the wreckage that we've seen before and that adds to the problems that we've already had, right? Plus, the whole climate change is getting a lot worse. We have the Climate Action Committee, too, in this legislature, which we will certainly talk about, therefore, about these effects, right? , the rise of the sea level, which obviously, therefore, also affects the delta, but I believe that it is appropriate to have a specific study commission to concreteize the needs of the territory. We need to talk about regression, about subsidization; we need to talk about measures... I mean I don't want to repeat myself, because we didn't all talk, right? But I think we need to do these urgent measures and also think about the medium and the long term. I insist that this is not the first time we've come here in this Faristol, that we're talking about solutions, that seems to have consented to it. And I insist that this committee of study is not precisely about an action and a mandate of the Parliament of the last legislature, and indeed it would not want to re-decorate so many people of the Ebro who are waiting for our answer, that it needs us to listen to them, that it needs solutions, that in the end, therefore, the food plate of every day goes from here. And I think that this..., or I hope and wish that this time will be the final one so as not to lose a more delta; to preserve this ecosystem; to preserve also biodiversity, species, even the only ones that see the Ebre Delta, and above all not to suffer consequences that could prove irreversible. For all this, as I said, our group will vote in favour of it. And I really hope that this study commission will be used to put a thread in the needle, and that once and for all, we will take care of this incredible natural heritage that we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.225.0	Next, to indicate the points that are accepted and the text that is put to the vote, has the word Mr Lluís Salvadó, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, for a maximum of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.226.0	Thank you, President. Well, in any case, on the points that have been made, from the outset, an acclaim, because in some intervention it was not quite clear. The papers that have been presented on the motius presentation, it is not that the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left has rejected them, it is simply that they cannot vote for procedural motius. However, the papers that have been presented on the presentation of motius incorporate nuances and enrich the text and the same motius, and therefore, surely, during the handling of the committee will be interesting to be able to incorporate into the areas of debate. On the theme presented by the Juntes group, it seems to me very opportune to add the local world to the committee. The truth is that it was an unforgivable oblivion, and, in this sense, the emena presented to us makes it possible to correct this incidence. And finally, about the SCP theme, we don't accept it because, even though it's a theme to the object, it's actually an exhibition of motius. The object is a brief, very schematic summary, and the theme that is presented are thirteen lines, which are closer to the expression of the word and which are not close to an object theme. In any case, on these thirteen lines, we proposed to eliminate two of them, which were simply an apologia to the management of the State Administration, a text that was absolutely inappropriate to incorporate into the object of this motion for a resolution. And in any case, therefore, they would accept the Junts statements, we would not accept the message of the PSC, and in any case, it seems to us that the majority of parliamentary groups or practically all of them have expressed their willingness to vote in favour of it, and we hope that we can, as we have shown all the parties, that the Commission can be a point of finding, a point of dialogue, a point in which we can advance in the search for solutions and remain truly useful for the citizens of the Ebro Delta. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.227.0	So, after the interventions, we'll move on now, when all the... [[Joaquim Paladella Curto asks to speak.]] Yeah? Pardon me, why ask me the word, Mr. Paladella? [[Widow's remorse.]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.228.0	For allusions, that the representative of Esquerra Republicana, by fixing the position on the emena that we had presented, therefore, said that it was not accepted because it was an exposition of motius. What I want to make clear is that it is a point to the object, and therefore it is a point that could be voted perfectly, and that..., to see, the all·lusion to say that « because it is an exposition of motius so it is not uncertain and it is an excuse not to let it vote, because I think I would have enough consent here in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.229.0	Thank you, Mr. Paladella. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. So this motion for a resolution establishing the committee was adopted with 119 votes in favour, 11 votes against and no abstentions. [[Paroles of Comiate by Teresa Pallarès Piqué]] Before suspending the session, Congresswoman Teresa Pallares asked me to use the word so that she could take it from all of you. You have two minutes, Congresswoman. It can be from the bait itself if you want or the pharisthol, as you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.230.0	Thank you very much. Many thanks, President, for allowing me to use the word today. President, Vice-President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies, all the staff of the house, I do not want them to be words of commia or much less, but the opportunity to express the honor that it represents to be part of this chamber to give services to the country and, above all, to all people. I am taking all the experience and learning from these four years of Parliament to the Government Delegation in Tarragona, from legislature to execution, but with the same strength, responsibility and compromise that this task involves serving the country and the people. I'm taking... the most important thing I'm taking is the relationship I've had with all the people in the house, the government, the deputies from all the groups and all the political parties. Obviously, very close to my parliamentary group, with whom I have shared very emotional moments and at which I really want to appreciate the great experience I have gained from being and being part of this group and also of this chamber. We have to keep fighting, because we still don't have a democratic country, and we can't exclude any of the lives that can lead us to independence. The process that culminates with the U of October reinforces and argues our government action, and I go from Parliament to the territory to continue with this government work from this compromise, of which I feel very seized. A territory that justifies for more than eighty years the balance of the chemical industry, an industry that now has reptes to the front importantissims, with a powerful tourist industry that contemplates cultural heritage, monumental, modernism, nature, routes of the vi, monestries... I could not stop explaining it. A great potential with great prospects for the future. I am beginning, therefore, this new stage is very aware that life sometimes poses obstacles to us, but that the limits on us pose ourselves. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.231.0	Thank you very much. We're suspending the session. Remember that we're taking it back to three-quarters of four with the alteration of the order of the day that we've informed this morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.232.0	We've been waiting for a secretary to arrive so we can start, because without the presence of a secretary, at least, at the table, we can't give up. [[Question to the Government on the situation in the economic sectors]] [[300-00016/13]] Therefore, we resume the session with the question to the Government on the situation of the economic sectors, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, has the words of Mr Óscar Ordeig to make the presentation of the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.233.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, secretaries, the Bureau, deputies, deputies... Counselor, I will start with a rhetoric of these days giving you honor, fate and uncertainty. But I don't want to stay here and I think we need to go a little further, to tell him we expect you to do very well. It has to do very well. We need its advice, we need the company, that the economy, that industry, that the trade of our territory is once again an engine of creation of occupation, that it is again a reference and that it is again the leader of the contract, the pes of the economy of the conjunction of the State. And also, obviously, one of the most dynamic regions in Europe. We will work or introduce many themes of reflection on which, for us, it is important for our own years – at these times and our own years. But we don't want to stop telling him that we think we need to make a paradigm shift. It seems that the last few years, making business, making economy, big industry, big business seems to be a problem. Or the small entrepreneur, too, at the time of generating occupation, at the time of doing his activity, therefore, does not take into account enough. We don't have it in value. Or we don't organize this government, we don't organize the system, we don't organize infrastructure, even all education, to put in value what it means to create wealth, create occupation. Because the redistribution we defend, the public services we defend, are financing through creating occupation, creating wealth, paying taxes and then being able to redistribute. Therefore, we need this government..., we need in this new stage, especially after the pandemic, to give a message that Catalonia is and wants to be an economic engine. That Catalonia is territories of opportunity, entrepreneurial territories and that leads the response to the covid, to the crisis of the covid, the economic response with European foundations, etcetera, with new innovations, with ecological transition and with all the new economic model that you see. And when we talk to the companies, counselor, they tell us that – you can do it – they're not happy. Autonomes, entrepreneurs, large businesses that generate a lot of occupation and wealth; small businesses and medium-sized enterprises, autonomes, that neither feel sufficiently listened. Bureaucratic beams, taxes... that I don't say you don't have to pay, but I do want to give you facilities, to give you flexibility so that everyone can take on, everyone can generate occupation and not over-bureaucratic processes. So, let's start by making a recognizance of all the people who have raised their blind. Larger Persians, large industries, large businesses, but also small, cooperative, businesses, autonomous, during this particularly difficult year of pandemic. Some have already come with many difficulties of the 2008 crisis. And, therefore, great recognition of this entrepreneurial spirit, this fighting spirit, of resilience that has always had and that, sometimes, is not very well suited for the political class, for the government, for the governments, and, therefore, what we must try to grasp. Why are we asking this question here today? Basically, to talk about the effects of the pandemic. Urgent: many companies will not get over it..., which are viable, which are profitable, which are doing well. They won't get over it if they don't get the government's urgent help. The governments. Therefore, he did not confront, not to barricades, but that the government put money, urgent. We have a line of help that is recently called, of these 993 million extraordinary euros that come from the State; from the Spanish State. If nothing happens. But it's that they could still come up with more if we approved 2021. They could still come more. We calculated, between the flexibility of the deficit of '1,1_per_cent, the more extraordinary covid funds, that could come, we could make a 2021 historical assumption, as to expenditure. Historical. This is for our hospitals, for our businesses, for our schools... more than 5,000 million euros. Upstairs, downstairs. So let us insist again: what is it important to do? Iron presupposition 2021. And don't see entrepreneurs as a problem, but as part of the solution. Therefore, listen to the autonomes, help urgently and reflect on the future. Reflection of the future with large infrastructures. This has to be a country of opportunity and it will be if we have infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a competitive world, where the competitive advantage is what leads to the production of certain products. And we've seen it with displacements. If we don't bet on a work, on basic infrastructure, so, nothing happens, we may be more in agreement or less in agreement with the expansion of the Prat airport, but, escorts, airports are not there all over the world, and those that are more equipped, the companies will go there. We may be more or less in agreement with the collaboration with the Barcelona-Catalunya circuit, but this is an international reference circuit. If we doubt, if we do not bet from the Generalitat..., I ask you the question: do they bet to renew the support agreement to the circuit of Barcelona-Catalunya? That it's not just an international tourism eco-impact saver, but it's more of a link to our industrial production history in the automotive sector. Therefore, we would also..., these infrastructures are also important for maintaining this competitiveness. What else was I supposed to say to him? Fiber 5G. It's not directly from his department, but it's very important. If we want European foundations, if we want to digitize, if we want to apply Industry 4.0, make a distribution of fiber and 5G row of territory and bet for talent and knowledge. European funds, we have already said this and now I say it here – I had pointed it out at the end, but I say it now –: European funds, finance, payments from the State Government, projects that can come from Europe..., must go all the way, where you are defending, where you can defend our interests. Follow the meetings to improve the financing, follow the dinner of the Circle of Economy with the president of South Korea, come the king, the president of the government or come who it is, if it is the same! Is it defense or is it not defense our interests? We think so. Therefore, we must be. And that's not "complaint to anyone, but it's defense of Catalans and Catalans, businesses and what we think is just for Catalonia." Now, if we make a policy for the gallery, then it won't work. Also, obviously, the act that was done to SEAT for the electric car. We defend more and better infrastructure, more and better projects. We defend electric drums, we defend an ecological transition and companies adapt. And we defended the autonomous, the pepper, and we also defended the big companies, which are the engine of change, they are tractors of our industry. Counselor, we would like you to tell us if you intend to make a new support plan for the industry, which you mentioned yesterday, but very quickly. New support plan for industry. But not just talk, words, words, words, but money, money; complete the objectives, because the same sector says that we approved some things that were good in the previous industrial plan, but that then there was not enough follow-up and resources were put in place. There is a project and action to support the car industry, a sector that is very much affected by the crisis, with displacements, but a sector that, in addition, has a lot of tradition, that has a lot of expertise and that has the necessary conditions, public, private and infrastructure to adapt the first – the first, or the first – so that it is competitive and that what is needed is reversed because the automotive industry continues to be at the top. Very fast: 10_percent of Catalan GDP, of automotive, according to industrial sector of Catalonia, 143,000 people occupied. We also want to know if you've planned to do anything to help the flames, apart from what we're already doing. Obviously, we also wanted to ask you for – I said it a lot past and you're going to tell me the first thing – the call that comes out of the dilluns. You asked that there have been more headings, more economic activities than could be eligible, than the State said to us: "It is accepted, but it turns out that you allow less than half of what you allow, for a band, for example, Castella - la Manxa, which allow some three hundred activities. You have agreed with the sectors to expand the activities and analyze the entire value chain. There are people, suppliers of businesses that you look at here, that you will not be able to gather help and that you have also been affected. Plus, another thing they put on the little letter. Let's see how many people are left out, because they don't let the companies that are present have lost at the income of 2019. So, casuistics on casuistics, make sure they don't leave people out. And what's going on is that the economy, then, keeps going around and we help the worst that's happened. Very important, enterprise and start-ups. I'm sure you've spoken to people who set up an innovative company, all the troubles, through which they find them. We made a facilitative law... we were making a facilitative law of economic activity. Cal, maybe, don't make another one, but it does apply or deepen on what we've already done. So, I'm done, I'm only eight seconds to say, with what I've started: Mr. Torrent, you have to do it well. Catalonia must be the territory that fosters economic activity, digital, sustainable and capturing innovation and knowledge, if not, we will not get out of it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.234.0	Then has the word, to answer, the Counsellor of Enterprise and Work, Mr. Roger Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.235.0	Thank you, President. And thank you, Member, for the inquiry; I am sure it will be the first of many that we will do during this parliamentary term and we will have the opportunity to contrast models, opinions and above all to work together. Because it's not a matter that's better or worse for this councillor, or any other individual government level. Today, the reps are in charge. In fact, I like to say that at these times we are deciding how and what we are going to live the next twenty or thirty years, and this is not just from a councillor, it is not just from a department, it is not just the concrete project of each of the government's areas, but, obviously, it has passed through the joint execution, but it is especially questions that we need to agree, that we need to work, that we need to reach agreement with the Catalan Parliament. Not just in Parliament. In fact, this very week – and I will also mention it, because you have also mentioned it – we reached an agreement in the Social Dialogue Council. A tool of new creation that is at the command bridge of all areas of social dialogue, concertation, of..., in short, of common work with the economic and social agents of the country. And it's also where we have to draw the guidelines that we need to guide... all the decisions of economic character, of business character, of socio-occupational character that we need to preside over the post-covid Catalonia. First of all, I wanted to add myself to the recognition that you have made to all those who have raised the blind, with a lot of sacrifices. Very much. There are sectors that have been particularly hard hit and the combination of the country's productive economy has made an effort. Not only those who are at the forefront of businesses, but also – and especially – the workers not only of the basic services, the essential services, but also of the economic fabric of our country. So, recognition too, from this point of view. No need to simplify, more quickly with the intention of trying to find a shared relationship – also with you, eh? – which is the diagnosis of the moment when we see the different economic sectors of our country, that is, trying to make an accurate radiography of where we are and where we are coming from recently, to project us towards the future, I would say that in the different sectors that we could discuss during this intervention and that we would have an opportunity to work, it produces the same pattern of behavior. We could say that. From the outset, a first element is that the impact of the pandemic – I insist, eh? , in the conjunct of the sectors, with more or less mattes, but in the conjunct – it has had some hard effects in short, but from a point of view of medium and long terms it has produced structural problems, it has put them on the table with more intensity than ever, that we have already watered from previous periods and that have now become an emergency. They're structural portraits. You spoke of the automotive subsector. Indeed, a lot of attention was paid to the cove and to the closure of the industry, the result of the management of the pandemic, but that already had problems, reptes and questions of foundations that had come from before. Therefore, it has accelerated times that were already structural and that we now live with more intensity than ever before, and on which, if we do not act, effectively, they can assume a hollow element in denial for these sectors and these activities. And finally, the last element of this boss, say, huh? , that all sectors share and that has these three points: the impact of the pandemic, the structural foundations..., is the need for the change process. In all there is a need to make arrangements, in depth each of the sectors. And in this sense, you said, and I buy it, say so, huh? The concept of paradigm shift, isn't it? , the need for paradigm shift. And it is true, in this sense, that we are very aware of the need to transform the country's production system and to do so in line with what Europe is proposing to us today, which has assumed this paradigm shift. Fortunately, the receipts are not the same as 2008. At these times, there is a willingness to inject resources into the productive economy of the European Union as a whole, but to do so in such a way that these aids do not only allow the viability and survival of companies and certain sectors at these times, but also allow them to align with the search, the achievement of certain tasks that link social and environmental objectives with the need to find new opportunities for growth and wealth creation. You said in another way, today Europe knows that if it does not want to lose competitiveness... You said: "We are in a competitive environment, and also in the conjunct of Europe, but also from a global point of view. And if Europe does not want to lose opportunities, it knows that this will of change has to go into the line of flotation of this transformation, of these paradigm changes that we say. Anyway, what do we have today? What we have today is – and so we are all told by all the reference indicators – a progressive revival of our economy. Now I'm going to look at this statement, but now the indicators that tell us are that progressively, and in some areas more than in others, we're getting better and normalizing the situation from a social point of view. And this also has some consequences from an economic point of view in the right. Now, I said that I would do this, that I did: we also find ourselves with solvents, with companies with recourse, but that the mature fruit of the covid has generated some debts that today, in some ways, I would not say that they offer them, in some cases, obviously, but that condition them. And here we have to act. And at the same time, we have more than 100_000 Catalans and Catalans in ERTO's situation; therefore, they have seen significantly fewer family tickets. This is the reality that today, although we are getting out of the economic situation and the indicators, as I said before, are improving, we have on the table. And from this point of view, we had to react like the government. We've already done it. You help them and the pact we made in the Social Dialogue Council is not a side event; it's a more element in this trajectory than the Government of the Generality, the past and the present, we have been following just to help companies that are going through it badly and workers in ERTO so that no one else is going back. And what we agreed was the allocation of the EUR 993 million, which actually came from the Royal Decree 5/2021, which initially, and as the decree says, were planned for the ninety-five CNAEs, which we have expanded with the norm, and therefore we are talking about 191. You said: "Home, we could have gone to all, to the three-cents and CNAEs that are stipulated in the classification that the same decree, therefore, establishes in its annex. Certainly. And in fact, there's some autonomous community that did it. What's going on is that we wanted to make it compatible with expansion at the time of incorporating economic activities that have gone through really badly during this time, taking into account how the billing download refers– 30_per_cent is what the royal decree marks, 25_per_cent is what we have added to it– but at the same time this enlargement does not mean a decrease in aid, and so that it helps them to be worthy. And this is the point of balance, the agreement that we have reached with social and economic agents. The agreement, however, also consists of another point, which is the repetition of the help to workers and workers in ERTO for the second quarter, taking as reference the month of May, these hundred and seven thousand workers, 119,000 workers and workers who are in ERTO's position and who will be able to receive an economic compensation, an economic aid of between six hundred and seven hundred_euros. So, more than 1,000 million aid, which, as I said before, is in addition to what the Government of the Generality had already done for a total of 1,454 million euros of aid to cope with the situation of covid, both entrepreneurs and self-employed workers. The autonomous community that helped the most in this sense and at a great distance from the next, which is Valencia, with 393_million euros invested. Therefore, we have made an important effort from a point of view of the Government of Catalonia, of the Administration of this country to help those who have suffered the most from the situation. This is the analysis, then I will continue with part of the reading of the present, but above all I want to focus on the future, which is what invited the Member to do. We'll follow later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.236.0	Then, to make the reply, the honourable Member has the word Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.237.0	Counselor – thank you, President –, a previa, which I have not said before. I think it's a mistake to join the Department of Business and Work, because they're two dynamic, two priorities and two different rhythms that I think I'd like to wear... that I think I'd like to go with two different bars to the government. Anyway, time to time, huh? And, therefore, the one who doesn't do it... but industry, business and the economy urgently need gestures and changes. Industrial policy, industrial policy assumptions of the past two years, fall of 70_per_cent. Do you imagine any department of the Generality with a drop of 70_per_cent of the assumption of its area? Seventy per cent. What message do we give to the citizenry? Industry is not important, industry is alone, industry is not strategic. This runs for many years than the industry, well, so, what did soroll, I don't know what. And now we agree that this is a big mistake. And as long as Catalonia needs to be industrial or not. This does not replace everything with other activities or services. But if we look at the tourism that has an important GDP and that we also have a competitive advantage... I'll tell you again, if we're not tourists, who will be? We need to improve many things, we don't need to massify, we need to modernise businesses, but clearly we need to bet on tourism. And here, too, is where they ask, in the summer tourist campaign, we also need specific volume aids to tourism. And I would also like to thank you, who, in addition, say that you go to the Republic, listen, when one believes in your country you have to make a general reflection of all the money that comes and all the money that should come from Europe, the Government of the State or the Generality. If nothing happens, sometimes I see we do this in the compartments, right? I'm just gonna explain what I'm doing. No! No! If one sector is already subsidized or helped or facilitates its activity in another administration, it must be taken into account. And that's what we have to do. So, ask him, is Catalonia a safe destination? , especially, as the vaccination rhythm advances, the tourist promotion campaign and help modernization. The automotive sector is urgent. He didn't answer me, would you like it, do we bet on the Barcelona-Catalunya Circuit or not? Yes or no. You bet? I'd be very upset if I were the business advisor and he's doubted as much about certain infrastructure as the airport – and I say that with all respect and all the ‘charity', why should he be okay? And as long as it's done, it's done. And I understand all the positions, but from a point of view of competitiveness... here we are losing in second thoughts and, listen, so look, certain companies, certain investments will not come. And I'll also tell him – without a soul, too, that he sees it as an attack, huh? – I think it would be good to have a paused reflection, to see how we do it, to see what message we give and what legal actions we make so that your social of some companies that have left can return some international investments or interesting projects can come. I'd do that. And this should go, too, hand in hand... you should lead it, but with a great deal of agreement. I'm convinced, and because I think so, that we're going to get out of it or not. As I said before, the world is very big, Europe every time has fewer economics in the world. And, therefore, what we need is to add and lead, to claim, each with its own nuances – obviously, the political projects are all legitimate – but what cannot be done is that this has no bearing on..., cannot have any negative impact on economic progress, on stability and trust in investors, on businesses, huh? , with good businesses, good entrepreneurs and good self-employed people, there's a lot of them, huh? Those activities that aren't productive or competitive enough or the one that cheats, this one doesn't, huh? I mean, when I talk like that, I also talk about doing good girly things, with productivity, that generate added value, work places that, then, pay higher quotes because they have higher wages. And that's why we're betting. All the changes we don't make right now, we'll never make them. We need to make changes, we need to make changes, we need to make changes in productivity, digitalization, industry 4.0, pam, pam, don't we ever? Listen, this... it's not a change fan until there's a big crisis, so we've got it here. And we have the big crisis with a big bunch of help. So let's get her to do it. But we won't make it alone. They will not make it alone, neither you nor us, nor the Parliament nor the Generality. We have to try and go find it, huh? , – because you have regulations that depend on the State, there is a lot of regulations that depend on Brussels. The path has been marked and it is a good path, which has been recognized by the Councillor, from where the European economy is to go, to where the European foundations are to go Next Generation. And here I just need to tell him the same thing as usual, we'll help in all of this. If that's what I think, here I think we can match. But, above all, counselor, I'm asking you to stay brave and brave, huh? , and, therefore, does not pass res to bet for the economy, for the enterprise, to create economic progress. This is not renegade with social policies, this is not renegade with demanding that there be good wages, which is respectful of labor rights. But we need to give a message to the world, to Europe, to Spain and to Catalonia that we are here for the economic progress and that the next decade this will be a land of opportunity and also of undertaking. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.238.0	Then there's the word, in its turn, the Business and Work Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.239.0	Member, I know you'll say no to me, but I see a certain contradiction in the fact that in your initial presentation the need for change, to take advantage of the time to transform, to serve not only resources at European level, but also the need as a lever of change to transform the productive sectors and, at the same time, in the case of infrastructure, not to reflect infrastructures to do what? Because if the reality is that we want to change the models, we have to ask ourselves who will have certain investments. Because the important is not just the investments per se– that, obviously, with the historical deficit, only to bring us up to date from this point of view and, therefore, only from a point of view of investor justice, would be worth it. But in the moments when we are, especially, when we actually have to change many paradigms, it's important that before we define which infrastructures, we define why. Because, surely, if we ask the companies of the country, especially those that have been demanding certain infrastructures for a longer time, they will also give us an order of priorities than perhaps in the house with some political priorities. Therefore, we do this reflection process in relation to the model and all its derivatives, including, also, infrastructure. To do what? So, among other things, a process of reindustrialisation, effectively. We're in this. And it's true and I say it from a progressive position, from a left-wing position, that it's true that for a long time now, the culture that we've driven from institutions and administrations many times did not marry the idea of the need for reindustrialization, of having a well-established industry in the territory, well connected, and with transmission correctness with administration and well-grieved governments. Therefore, re-industrialisation process which must be based not only on the tractors of industry and the economy, these large sectors which are actually redundancy elements – you were talking about automotive; it is basic, it is important, not only because we have to solve a complicated situation of the own subsector, but also because, as I said, it is an engine which will attract a good share of the industry of the same sector and of the whole economy – but not only the automotive sector, and, in this sense, will be important. And it is very important that the State understands that it is not only the automotive sector that is basic: that there are projects around, for example, European xip, green hydrogen, agri-food, that are basic, and that they are very localized and very focused in our country, but that they are of European character; they are strategic, not only for Catalonia, but for the whole of Europe. And we need to be very clear about this, and the priorities and the report, in this sense, we need to share it. And we're trying to explain this, we're trying to explain this not just to the country's side, to which we're addressing, but especially to the State, which we also need to share. And then we have to do another thing; it is to say, obviously, these concrete measures, the Next Generation are here, at the cantonship, so they are short, but there is also a process of reflection, as we have said before, in relation to the model we have to do from here, we have to lead from the department, but we will also have to do from the Parliament of Catalonia, which is around the National Pact for Industry, which must serve... You said: "Home, there must be resources and there must be concrete measures; certainly, but it must also serve to define which industry we will have in the future, no matter where we go. And this is an essential element in order to put in order the whole process of reflection and strategic will around the industry of our country. In a few seconds, I am sure that we will have time to talk about it; in fact, I think that the week I see the other I attend the committee, so we will have time to delve into some issues. In any case, for tourism, which you have also focused part of your intervention, well, obviously, we start the summer campaign. What we are looking for now is to stabilize the sector as much as possible, a sector we expect to recover between 50 and 60 per cent of the activity, not in a homogeneous way; it will not be the same in the city of Barcelona, which will hardly cheat a little more for its dependence on international markets, than on the coast, the interior or the Pyrenees. In any case, the forecast is to recover between 50 and 60_per_cent. We have already boosted the sector and a recovery plan with €6 million and more than 30 actions. But in this case, too, as in the industry, excuse me, let me just...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.240.0	Counselor, it has to end, time has run out...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.241.0	... of the law, of the law of tourism – I finish, president –, also to generate this new tourism model of a sector that is mature enough, that has the clearest ideas and that we need to know how to take advantage of to position ourselves better at what the post-covid visitors would call, which will be slightly different from what they would call before the pandemic. Many thanks, deputies, deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.242.0	Let's move on to the agenda item, the question to the Government about the model and priorities in the field of infrastructure, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can. [[Asking the Government about the model and priorities in the field of infrastructure]] [[300-00011/13]] Mr. Marc Parés has the word, to make the presentation... (Maria Dolors Sabater and Puig ask to speak.) Yes, Mrs. Sabater, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.243.0	Yes, President, by observance of the Rules, ask for the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.244.0	Yes, for what article do I ask the word? Article 90 is that of the observance of the Rules.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.245.0	According to the stablert at point 35.2...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.246.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.247.0	...request the convening of an extraordinary Board of Spokesmen at the end of this session, so as to encourage a statement of support to Marcel Vivet, who has been unjustly condemned to defend the rights of this people, of this country. And ask the rest of the parliamentary groups to join this petition.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.248.0	Do they have the support of any other parliamentary groups? He knows that in order to be able to convoke the Board of Portaveus...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.249.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.250.0	Yeah? Perfect, then, if there are more parliamentary groups that adhere to the call of the Board of Spokesmen, we will call it a time after the plenary, today itself.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.251.0	Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.252.0	[[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, yes, the groups that give support have to express it at these times. Which groups give support to the call of the Board of Portaveus? [[Pause.]] There are no spokespersons for parliamentary groups. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, when there are the messengers in the chamber, then ask me for the use of the word to specify which groups also support it, because they know they have to be more than a parliamentary group or two parts of the chamber. All right, thank you. Therefore, let us continue with the question, which was addressed by Mr Marc Parés, in order to present the question on the model and priorities in the field of infrastructure.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.253.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, vice president. We are planning this inquiry into infrastructure in the framework of the legislature, and, therefore, to be able to debate, no? , or sharing, which will be the priorities in terms of mobility infrastructure during this legislature. I put to you our layout, our proposal. Look, for us, the mobility model of these years should respond to two very clear objectives: the first is the fight against climate change, and you know that in Catalonia emissions of greenhouse gases have increased by 13_per_cent in relation to the year 90 and that the sector that contributed most to this is the transport and mobility sector, with 30_per_cent. The second objective that we believe we should have is to guarantee the right to mobility in the city. And here I want to remind you that car mobility potentially excludes the 50_per_cent of the population, that you do not have a vehicle, that you do not have a notebook or that you do not have conditions to use it. Therefore, it is necessary to guarantee the right to mobility and to guarantee it in particular to the popular classes and to those territories which have suffered, which suffer, the most significant hardships in terms of territorial equity. Well, in order to be able to respond to these two objectives – fighting climate change and guaranteeing the right to mobility – we understand that it would be useful to transform the current model of transport, of mobility, a model that has been based on large road infrastructures, not on railways, and that has clearly oriented to a demand..., to satisfy a growing demand through the private vehicle. A model that has left a good part of the non-metropolitan territories, prioritizing radial connections and not grid or polycentric connections. It is true that at the level of territorial planning, therefore, some planning documents had incorporated some infrastructures that were navigating in this line. I am thinking, for example, of the railway cross-section, but the practicality of these infrastructures has not seen the light, they have not been realized, and what we have today in Catalonia is a very important deficiency for what it does to the transport of the collection, that it is not much less up to what it should be a modern country and advanced in terms of social justice, environmental justice and territorial justice. And, well, in front of the current model, we believe that it is an old model, an old model, a model of the past, we believe that it is necessary to set up a new model that puts the focus on making Catalonia the train country, in coherence with the European strategy of green, intelligent and reliable mobility that, among others, they claim, therefore, that the year 2030 has doubled the high-speed rail traffic to all of Europe and that scheduled journeys of less than five hundred kilometres are carbon neutral. I do not know whether or not you share the diagnosis, or whether it is in part, and the objectives I have raised, but, in any case, I want to go to concrete questions and ask you about two great infrastructures that are now very topical and that, in our view, answer more to the model of the logic of the 1990s than not to an advanced vision and of the future of the 21st century. I'm talking about the airport. AENA's proposal to expand the Prat and Vell Airport – vellissim, I would say – is a four-belt project. Well, let's go to pams. On the airport, he knows perfectly well what is the position of our parliamentary group, such as the mayors of Barcelona and the Prat de Llobregat. To you, the Government, what we ask you is that it is not ambiguous, because between what you said this week and has been published in various media, what we heard from President Aragon this morning, the truth is that we have not just taken clear water on which is the position of the Government. And what we ask of them is clear and strong for what it does to the proposal that AENA has put on the table. Claridate that they say no, that they say no to the enlargement of the third track, and that they say yes to the preservation of Ricardo. And that they don't give in to AENA's chanting to impose a project that has the opposition of the affected assemblies, that they know they will have the opposition of the European Union and that it is opposed both to the fight against climate emergency and to the preservation of biodiversity. Look, I can recognize that the debate is complex, that the analysis, therefore, requires a certain complexity and, in this sense, we could argue – and, in fact, I would discuss it, wouldn't I? – that what the country needs most in the current context is to continue with the tourism monoculture – and I also refer to the previous inquiry, right? – or we could also discuss it, so I'm discussing that an intercontinental hub generates an economic impact that benefits the economy, the peppers, the autonomes, the workers and workers of this country. We could argue and, in fact, we also argue that we need to set a target of 70_million passengers in the year at Prat when before the pandemic we had 55 and we all know that the year you see, therefore, in the best of cases we reach 20_million passengers. Therefore, they are questionable objectives, because we all know that in the next five years, which is the plan that is being put on the table with the current infrastructure, with the current airport, we can cover the flights planned for these next five years. It is obvious that we also have significant deficiencies in airport infrastructure, such as Girona, Reus. We have, in fact, Barcelona itself a disused terminal. Therefore, the current infrastructure is underutilized and would therefore guarantee the flights of these own five years. So let's not talk about the underutilization of an airport like Alguaire. In a climate change context where it is necessary to reduce CO2 emissions, what we should be thinking about is seeing, so, how do we eliminate all those flights that can be done by train and not by increasing the number of flights. This should be the layout, that is to say, how to reduce the number of flights, replacing them with train journeys, which is what Europe is doing. We were talking about competitiveness before, and we were talking about Europe. Europe is doing this, because they know perfectly well that the emissions by train are between 70 and 98 per cent lower than the same one by plane. That the plane is the transport method that most broadcasts: 133_grams for passing and mileage against six_grams for passing and mileage of the same journey by plane or train. But, in any case, beyond this complexity, from this debate, which we can recognize, and which we share, therefore, as the meeting held by this dilluns convened for the President of the Generality the agreement to ask, to complain, to keep all technical information available. We agree, but there is also one element that is simpler, that is actually simpler. And this is where we ask him, isn't it? , is whether or not the Government of the Generality will guarantee the preservation of Ricardo. Yes or no? It's that it's very simple, because the enlargement of the third track, it's to say, widening the third track as proposed by AENA at these times is impossible to preserve Ricardo. That's it. Therefore, it is more simple, the question: yes or no? Will they preserve Ricardo, yes or no? Will they oppose, yes or no, widening the third clue? And this brings me to the second of the great expired projects on which we would like to know their position, which is the fourth belt. Miri, Vice President, we're asking you if we can give him all the time to bury this project. The four-belt project between Terrassa and Roca del Vallès, because it is another great infrastructure that is to be put back on the table and that for us is an infrastructure of the past, because if the objective that we have as the country is to reduce CO2 emissions, to preserve biodiversity, to guarantee public transport, then this project does not have any meaning, it is a project of the past, and we would like to know its position, we would like to know if they say yes to the preservation of the agroforestry spaces of the plan of the Valley, because of its social function, for its paper as ecological connectors, and also for its paper in the production of food, now that I have here the council of Jordan, for its social function, also the importance of the plan of the production of the valley only in the production of important. To say yes to all this is necessary to make it clear that the Government of the Generality renounces the fourth-belt project and sees it as a past project, especially in a post-pandemic context in which it is obvious that we are going to a mobility reduction scene. And what we should do is see how in this new scene we are moving forward with mobility and with new types of infrastructure, such as, for example, the Mediterranean Corridor, such as, for example, the railway orbital in Vallès or, for example, other intermodality key projects that are an alternative to the problems that some want to raise. It is to say that there are alternatives and that they are alternatives that clearly respond to another model; a model that is a model of the future. We could come up with a lot of proposals, and some of us would come up with them, and we'd have a chance to discuss different issues at the length of this legislature. In the short time that remains for me in this first part I have proposed three projects that for our other priority series. In the first place – and that goes in this other line – the tram train of the Costa Brava, a tram train of the massis of the Gavarres connecting a whole series of municipalities with 400,000 people of potential users, a demand of 6.7_million users; therefore, a very clear alternative. According to the proposal: the train tram of the Bages, also taking advantage of existing lives, therefore, taking advantage of what already exists and in the key of mobility between the same region. The third proposal in this line: the pacification of the National II to the Maresme, taking advantage of the fact that, as you know, there will now be the rise of the tolls in the summer and, therefore, it is an opportunity to rethink, to rethink certain infrastructures, large urban highways, that in our understanding we must convert into infrastructures destined for people, destined for the connection with bicycle. In short, three concrete proposals on which we would like to know what the position of the Government is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.254.0	Thank you very much. The words of Vice-President Jordi Puigneró continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.255.0	Very late, deputies and deputies. Thank you, President. Mr Parés, first of all, allow me to say, obviously, in the end, that at these times, these days I am preparing the appearance that I will have to make the week you see precisely to give details of what it must be..., to point out the plan of government in the area of the Vice-President and the Consellaria de Políticas Digitals e Territori, and, therefore, I will now try to answer some of the questions or to point out in general lines what we are or what we want to do from this department in this legislature, but obviously today I will not have time to answer all the questions that have asked me. But I would like, in the first place, as you have done, to plant a little bit as I see this department in this legislature. In the first place, I was surprised that you had made all your intervention..., asked me or asked me about infrastructure and only asked me about road and rail infrastructure. And this is a department that, in the band of planting this kind of infrastructure, will also plant what they are, and I think every time more important, the reps of digital infrastructure. And, therefore, also the place to incorporate in his speech this point that I think is very important for the country, that today is also a vertebrating element of country as physical infrastructures were in the industrial era, and that every time more is essential to bet on digital connectivity infrastructures for what it does to our country. Actually, I'm sure we've created a department that links these two types. We have created a department with a double vision: for a band, physical infrastructures, understood as those terrestrial communications that are to favor – land and also obviously airport – that must add to a more sustainable, efficient and secure mobility, and also clearly those of a digital nature, that they must allow us, as I said, to have a more digitally connected territory, and therefore, more vertebrate and with the ability to unlock employment opportunities, educational opportunities, public services, etc. This is the challenge that this department has in charge of and that, therefore, we unite in one of the two cares. We need, in short, physical infrastructures also connected digitally. In short, a country connected by land, sea, air, space and cyberspace. Only if we are a connected country are a country of progress, and only if we are a connected country are a vertebrate, cohesive country, both territorially and socially. In order to be competitive in the 20th century, we had to, above all, obviously move people, move goods; this makes it possible for industrialization to be felt. Today, in the 21st century, we don't just have to do this, but we also have to be megabit moving caps, moving what is the new knowledge economy, the new digital economy. Therefore, it will be a priority for this government, obviously, to invest in both areas at the length of this legislature. And it's no coincidence that the consultancy is said to be consulting with Digital Policies and Territories, because we have changed the age, we have changed the century, and I also want to say that the band, obviously, will continue to bet on the infrastructures that we could say classical, cement – that obviously they will be made, they will be renewed–, above all what it is to modernise them and make this mobility more sustainable and more intelligent and, at the same time, a clear bet for what digital infrastructures are to be. On this first aspect, let'mdir or donate some data. Currently, the Generalitat network of optical fiber up to 91_percent of the population of Catalonia, in a total of 415 municipalities. And, in this sense, we are already working because this 2021, when it ends, we arrive at 657 municipalities and, therefore, we arrive at 96 percent of the population. But here I want to take a compromise, and it is the compromise that in the first assumption approved by the Government of Catalonia in this legislature there is the presuppositional endowment to bring the optical fiber of the Generality to the cent_per_cent of the municipalities of Catalonia. So let there be the money needed to do this work that is so important to finish and, therefore, that we finish this deployment. For what it does to the physical infrastructures, to which you have devoted all your part of your intervention, let's say that they are obviously the basis of the new mobility and this councillor what it wants and what it claims is that this is a legislature where we clearly speak of a mobility in two concepts: "sustainable, for one band, and for the other, "intelligent, which means effective, well governed, well managed, to use, in short, technology to make possible a new mobility in our country. For what it does to the environment of sustainability, it's obvious. You mentioned this: transport now represents Catalonia 30 per cent of the emissions of greenhouse gases and we need to reduce them. We have this commitment to move forward on this reduction. Infrastructures that we need to design from now on must bring an inescapable environmental component and that is why priority must also be a public transport bet. If we have a good base in physical infrastructure that allows for removability, we will also have more ease because the citizens are behind for this transport collection. At the same time, almost a year ago, the Government of Catalonia presented its Catalan portfolio of emblematic projects for which it makes the aspiration we have in the Next Generation Catalonia. A total of twenty-seven projects driven by their capacity for innovation and to cope with the economic and social crisis that left us with the covid-19 pandemic. In concrete terms, there is one of these projects, number 11, which refers precisely to the creation of infrastructure for sustainable mobility with a total budget of 1,880_million euros and with three main axes: the first, the completion of the metro network; the second, the axis of impulse to traffic mobility and the third, an address axis or an important package for the implementation of parking lots for park and rides, or known parks and rides, as the concept knows, to create 10,800 new parking spaces around Barcelona to precisely promote this connection with public transport. And, therefore, this will be a clear bet of the government in this legislature using these foundations that will be so important. Nor can we forget the road network, the network that we already have of the country's reelers, an infrastructure that has vertebrated the territory from the principles of the past century and that has made it possible... to give many economic and social opportunities to the citizen of many rights of the territory. These are the infrastructures, obviously, that we need to continue to modernise and we need to apply, precisely, what he said earlier about the new intelligent mobility, which means we also digitize these infrastructures to make them more efficient and more sustainable. In fact, let me tell you about the guiding principles which will govern, to say the least, the policies of this department during these four years. First, move from a conservation model to a modernization model. And here we could put, for example, the example of the C-17 that we are practicing at these moments in Garriga and Centelles. Also make a road network with less left-handedness, therefore, safer. To contribute also to the territorial balance providing equal opportunities for which, say, to inversions to the whole territory. To improve urban spaces also with the construction of variants that allow the transformation, in this case, of cities and, therefore, that the centers of the cities are still by the wayside. A clear example is the bet and the visit of works that I made this week in English, where we are making at these times a variant that will allow you to recover the center of the city for your citizens. And lastly, also improving the functionality of our lives at real demand as the enlargements in execution of a third lane of the C-58 or the C-17 in points where there is a structural congestion that limits at these times the competitiveness of the territory. We must also, of course, make and make a bet for which there are airport infrastructures and, therefore, also for ports and airports. You have given me some concrete reflections on a very important infrastructure such as Barcelona Airport and, as I am only a few seconds away, what I will do is answer it in my reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.256.0	Thank you, Vice President. Next, Mr. Marc Parés has the word to make the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.257.0	Thank you, President. Well, thank you, Vice President, we'll be paying attention to your answer on the second return. In any case, we don't worry about not being able to answer it because he already knows our position, but we are surprised that the costs so much say what their position is. The question is simple: will they preserve Ricardo, yes or no? Besides, I have them both here in front of you, Councilwoman Jordan, who I don't know if she has the same sensitivity to biodiversity as you do. And, therefore, the other question is whether they would preserve Ricardo: yes or no, whether or not they would object to widening the third clue, because this is the question. You have told me about digital infrastructures, about many questions that the inquiry did not address, it is not that I do not want to talk about it, we can talk about it at the length of the legislature, no problem, but in any case the inquiry was about very concrete questions and we would appreciate concrete answers about the airport, about the Fourth Belt and if you can also make them about the three proposals that we have made by train to the Costa Brava, by train to the Bages and by peace of the National II. In any case, you say: "We want infrastructure... We want mobility to be effective and intelligent. Totally, totally okay. But that's why, for example, so now that many of the concessions to bus operators are won, so it's a good time to rethink mobility by bus, so for example territories like the High Pyrenees and the Aran can move around in public transport, because it's impossible right now. Or territories like the Lands of the Hebrews, where there are bus lines that trig for an hour to do trajectories that can be done in twenty minutes. Therefore, it is a good opportunity to rethink and gain efficiency in all these senses. He hasn't told me much about the railroad. I want to remind him that this is the European Railway Year. Therefore, my... our proposal was: Fem Catalunya a country of trains. Fem, decisively, investments in railways and this is the proposal that we are making and that is related to what is happening in Europe. Europe is betting on trains. Europe is not betting on more airports and more lanes. You came here and started talking about variants, more trolleys... No, the solution to mobility problems does not go to add more trolleys to the infrastructures we already have, it goes to make a bet for the train and the infrastructures we lack. For example, the railway orbital or, for example, the projects we have planted with tram trains. So they're very different models. Your bets are for more reels, for more variants, for more reels. What we say to him is that we have to bet on the train decisively because we haven't done it in the past few decades. Clearly, after you fill your mouth with sustainability and clear, it still makes a pretty impressive greenwashing smell, doesn't it? Why do we have to be very sustainable, such, and what will we do to advance towards sustainability? We'll do more variants, we'll do more road carts, and we'll make people move more in private vehicles. Listen, if we really bet on sustainability, we make a decided bet on public transport mobility, on transport systems that are really zero emissions as I told you it's the train. We are also aware that we cannot solve everything with the train, but the reality is that there are many parts of the country that could be connected with the train and are not. In fact, there are areas of the country that have rail connections, but the frequencies are bad, such as the Lands of Lleida, where the rolling stock can be deployed urgently. This should be one of the priorities that you had me to lay down, to lay on the table. Not to mention the deficiencies in the R3, not only in the infrastructure, which obviously needs to unfold, but also in the frequencies and management of the services. Therefore, all these are important deficiencies that the country has and that we believe would be a significant solution. And I insist, ladies, on any answer to the two questions we have put to you about the table, about infrastructures that are right now on the table and that we are concerned about them. That one is, as I said, the airport and the other is the Fourth Belt, because I don't know if it's they want to make megabytes circulate through the Fourth Belt, is to say, build the Fourth Belt between Terrassa and the Rock of Vallès to make it circulate megabytes. But I understand, exactly, what you said, we're in the 21st century, so the logic of infrastructure is not that of the past century, and so infrastructure like these doesn't have much to feel. And lastly, I think we can agree on many questions. That is to say, I believe that we can come to an agreement to take advantage of the investment that obviously has to be made, in the airport case, to improve the conjunction of the Catalan airport system and to make it precisely in terms of radiality and not of centrality, and therefore, connecting the airports of Barcelona, Girona and Reus by train. Therefore, improving the current airport system I think is the challenge we have, taking advantage of that part that is currently underutilized and putting the investment, putting resources in, really, which is necessary with these objectives and not with some other objectives that we understand to be past and not leading at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.258.0	Thank you, Congressman. He then has the word to make the reply of the Vice President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.259.0	Thank you, President. Member, the question was very clear: « question on the model and priorities in the field of infrastructure. You're just talking about a few of them. In any case, the next day, if you want to clarify or specify more than just railway and road infrastructure, I'll be happy to talk to you about it and that's why I also put you on the table the need to talk about all the infrastructure that the country needs. And, in fact, in the appearance that I will make the week that I see, I hope that we can extend, in this sense, therefore, the framework of the discussion to all the infrastructures. Look, I understand now because you in England don't have to have a single governor, because if he goes to England he'll see that this is a demand for the whole town. Do you know how many trucks pass through downtown England every day? (Pause.) Therefore, it is clear that the variation of England is necessary to, precisely, make this city and this town a city to recover it for the city of England. So, listen, some works have to be done, and that are necessary and that citizenship demands. To answer him questions already more concrete than he asked me, escort, the Fourth Belt. First, I should know – well, I suppose you do know – that the State also has an important involvement in this work and, therefore... Certainly, remind him that you are part of the Government of the State, a state that his investment per inhabitant in Catalonia in 2020 was 123 euros in infrastructure, and the difference between Madrid and the Spanish medium is substantial, isn't it? 159 the Spanish midjana, 181 in Madrid. I hope that, since you are in this progressive Spanish government, you are also making progress in Catalonia, not only in the Spanish State, but also in Catalonia. That it is known that you are part of this government. Help yourself with this proposal. The Fourth Belt, we consider it a priority and necessary to finalize the work between Abrera and Viladecavalls. We think this tram has to run. And, finally, we will work in this sense because this will help the cities of Sabadell and Terrassa. On the continuity in this case of this tram, what we do understand – what goes from Granollers to the Rock – is that it obviously requires a broad consensus to be able to develop it, if we need to develop it. And, therefore, we are obviously willing to talk about it. And to talk about it, obviously, so here in your parliament and willing to put on the table all the elements to see if really this tram is to be done or not to be done. On the topic related to the airport– because I have a little time left and I understand that it was the other question that asked me in this sense–, listen, look, we, in the first place, what we wanted– both President Aragonès and myself – is to call a table with all the agents and, therefore, that of this topic we spoke, and that therefore there is a Catalan position and position to respect. That's what we did in the table and that's what everybody celebrated. And I think he's been positive. And they didn't come out of this table, I think – and that's what the same Mayor Colau said at the same meeting – shared objects. And these shared objectives – so we have more points of contrast than not of encounters – pass, first of all, the first of them, because of the need for Catalonia to have intercontinental flights. And, therefore, this means that the Prat airport is an intercontinental hub where we are still able to bring what I say to the three of you: that it is an airport that brings people with talent, therefore, talent to our country; that it also brings technology to us and that it brings work to us. I think that, when we look at what we want this country to be from an economic perspective, it is important that we also, in the area of infrastructure, place them in this area, and the new digital economy also demands, indeed, this type of airport. Secondly, the Generality has clearly placed above the table that will not accept any solution that does not pass to incorporate in the solution the railway interconnections with Girona and Reus with high speed. Because this can help in the precise purpose of decongesting Prat airport so that there are these intercontinental flights. And therefore, this must also be..., and I believe that it is an object shared with the Generality, it will be incisive in the agreement that can be reached, in this case, with AENA. Thirdly, unequivocally, we are all committed to the fight against climate change and, therefore, it is clear that we, the director of Dora, must incorporate the environmental solution that allows this airport to complete with the Natura 2000 network and, as long as Europe can buy what is to be this project. But what we're not going to do is block the project from the beginning, so yes. And finally, we have created a technical table, precisely, to address this concrete issue, which is surely the one that concerns them and concerns you as well as the Government of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.260.0	Yes, ma'am Vilalta. Why ask me the word? (Pause.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.261.0	Now? Perfect. Thank you, President. Yes, in relation to Article 35.2 of the Rules of Procedure and the petition that the CUP made before it to be able to position us there, too?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.262.0	All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.263.0	No, if I can position myself.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.264.0	Oh, yeah, I'll give him the word, for 35.2, he already told me the article. Yes, forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.265.0	Perfect. So thank you very much. Simply to position us in favour of calling this Spokesman's Meeting as soon as possible, and, as it is said, so also to show our rebroadcast to this feeling, this condemnation, which we have just met, to Marcel Vivet, and therefore to show him our support.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.266.0	Thank you very much. Yes, Mrs. Sales? Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.267.0	Thank you, President. I also comply with Rule 35.2 of the Rules of Procedure, and we would also support this call by Junta de Portaveus as soon as possible. And also, on behalf of Junts per Catalunya, we would express our support to Marcel Vivet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.268.0	Perfect, then. As is now the precept, that there is more than one group that supports this convening initiative of the Board of Spokespersons, we will convene the Board of Spokespersons once the plenary is over, so as not to obstruct and stifle the proper functioning of all Members and Councillors who are here to question them. Okay? [[Pause.]] Thank you. [[Inquiries to the Government on energy policies]] [[300-00010/13]] We continue, therefore, with the eighth item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government on energy policies, presented for the Popular Unity Candidature Group - A New Cycle to Win. And you have the word to make the presentation of the inquiry the deputy and secretaries Mr Pau Juvillà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.269.0	Well... I can't even begin without expressing our most absolute support for Marcel Vivet. Today, as you know, the jutjat sentenced him to five years in prison, to our companion and friend, in a feeling that he participated in a Holi demonstration and that the title of "urban guerrilla." A feeling that's an authentic shame. This feeling, let's say high and clear today in the hemisphere, is an authentic shame. A feeling that, moreover, has relied on the particular accusation of the Government of Catalonia, and it is absolutely unacceptable – it is unacceptable. I've made a lot of difference. Neither repression nor state operations will put up with us. We're going to be in a lot of trouble. You have and always, all our support to Marcel; to all and all Marcels. Today's news, also a few hours ago, is that the price of the Spanish State light will be the third highest in history, and a june of memory is expected. And about that, a couple of dice. The first is €1,394_million of net benefits. This is the benefit Endesa had in 2020 in the midst of the pandemic: €1,394_million of net benefits! – 1,394_million euros, which is said fast! More than 171_million more than 2019_according to the agency Efe. Iberdrola had 3,610; 3,610_million euros in the same period. Since the liberalisation of the electricity sector, since the privatisation of this sector, three companies: Endesa, Iberdrola and Naturgy take 83_percent of all customers, before 8.6_percent of subscribers of independent traders. These three companies – these three, too – take 90_percent of the electricity production, and this has a name, a name that is called oligopolies; an oligopolie, to remember, created it through the use and benefits of public infrastructures that were privatized. And an oligopolis that has some causes that have helped strengthen it and keep it, and that also have a name, and it's called rotating doors. An investigation by La Marea magazine revealed that 175 public bodies have passed through Endesa, Gas Natural, Iberdrola or Repsol. Only for Endesa, the largest, have passed at least one President of the State, five ministers and a wide list of other public authorities, from secretaries of the State to autonomous advisers. There have been ministers like Elena Salgado, Rodolfo Martín Villa, Pío Cabanillas or the Catalan Joan Majó. Gas Natural has been Cristina Garmendia or Narcis Serra, among other former ministers. Enagas has kept his files Isabel Tocino and Ana Palacios. Iberdrola, Angel Acebes. Miguel Boyer Angeles Amador Millán went to the board of directors of Red Eléctrica. I, finally, for Repsol, Luis Carlos Croisier and Marcelino Oreja, among others. And these companies – these companies –, which earn millions of euros in the middle of the crisis, have the cynicism to ask us to move our electricity consumption to hours, from mid-to-eight in the morning and week-ends. A fact that took shape again in the popular classes. Thus, those who have purchasing power will be able to decide the period of consumption, keeping the same usual habits, while those who do not have resources will be forced to turn on the renter, the renter or to plan in hours that should be of rest. It is the families who are forced to decide between paying the mortgage, energy and water or feeding their infants. And this measure makes them even harder to survive. It is not possible to make Catalans and Catalans responsible that their light bill is expensive because it does not put the renter, renters or dryers in the most economical times, if these periods, as I have told you, coincide with the moments that should be devoted to rest. And that brings us, basically, to the end of the street. Is energy a basic sub-administration or is it a consumer good, or is it a commodity? Is it possible to defend that companies earn millions of euros while the popular classes are forced to decide between mortgage, food, between cold winter or pay the light? No, we say no. Not roundly. Electricity must be a guaranteed basic right. Electricity must be a basic right, because natural resources and basic resources like energy must be under people's control and not in the hands of large unscrupulous corporations that spoil and impoverish us. How can they do that? Legislation, obviously; ensuring the application of the Law 24/2015, of urgent measures to tackle the emergence in the field of housing and the poor energy, and also – and also – planning nationally our energy model, all establishing a public energy; an energy with a democratic governance, transparent, shared, that counts inescapably with the municipalities and with the territories, and that develops a model of production that we want throughout the country, the model that we want throughout the country; that is an example of this model that we want throughout the country, a model of energy transition that is more just and sustainable, a model that is to be decentralized, renewable, self-sufficient and sense-nuclear; a Catalan public energy company based on renewable energy sources, that has public control over the whole of the public sector, and guarantees that the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service, the public service. These basic sub-administrations must be a guaranteed right, and we have the means to do so. We have them. It may be recalled, for example, that approximately 90 per cent of hydroelectric power stations have fallen concessions; that there are municipalities, such as Vall Fosca or Sant Quirze de Besora, which carry years of struggle because these hydroelectric power stations pass into public hands, which, of course, would be a good job, a necessary job for this energy. We defend that the articulation of an electrical property and public management network is a strategic priority in the articulation of a power will rise. Dolors Sabater does not say that entering the institution of social struggles must be used to make policies for the service of the life of the majority, not to continue being accomplices of the police that the elites perpetuate. Needless to say, public energy is one of these policies. Let's wait for his words and above all his action, counsel; for now, not for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.270.0	Thank you very much. To answer, you now have the word Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.271.0	Well, very late. Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies; deputy Juvillà, allow me to start my intervention with a very clear idea, eh? I'll try to be as clear as you have been. If you ask me about energy policies of the country's government, the answer is obvious. The first energy policy that this government has made is organizational. I'll explain. As you are aware, from the beginnings of this country's self-government, energy policies have always been integrated from the Industry Council and the Economic Council, and this has relegated any kind of energy model to an economy based on fossil fuel cream and uranium fusion, an economy that lacked any alternative. And I looked, actually, I guess that was good enough... for some, huh? He loved those who wanted to change resources, but not the agents who controlled them. In fact, you said it: the usual. Perhaps there are still those who are surprised, or perhaps even all those who are squandering, let me just say, that this government has put energy, climate policies, and air quality policies into the same bag. Beyond the climate-emergency declaration of 19th year, I am extremely convinced that long before most of the Members here already understand that the poor quality of the urban area and also the increase in emissions of winter-effect gases have or have their origin in the energy model. I guess it didn't come back to them again that year 19... with the declaration of the climate emergency. I guessed. That is why we believe that these changes are more than necessary to face the great energy challenges, but also the environmental and climate challenges that we have like the country. Also, as I said at the back Ple, also the fruit of an inquiry, we are here to transform, we are here to change things. And that means we're also here to transform this country's energy model. And Congressman, I think your parliamentary group – in fact, I'm not convinced – and this councillor goes in the same direction, look for the same objectives. I call, sense dubte, that we continue to cover everything and everything to add to our efforts. It is not only a question of replacing raw energy sources with renewable energy sources, it is also a question, as you have said, of transforming a model based on the great energy oligopolises. In fact, during the first decade of the 21st century, while he was betting on wind energy, we did it for fossil natural gas. In less than two years we have installed cycles..., in fact, so many combined cycles that today we could shut down three nuclear power plants: that of Vandellòs, Ascó... and nothing would happen at all. In fact, it won't sound new to them if I tell them that too often emergencies make us act without knowing where we're going, how, or with what company of travel. I explain: the emergences of us are very often engaged in acting without a model, and we can't afford that. I'd just miss it. We see this day and day: our people in the territory, especially in rural areas, but also the young man, who asks for climate justice, have told us by active and passive that they want to make the energy transition, that they want renewable energies and that they do not want them this way. They know that it is necessary to react to the climate emergency, but not to any price. For this reason, we want an energetic transition that takes account of the territory, that is democratic, that is fully transparent and obviously very efficient. That's clear to us. We know, too, that with the agreement that we made with your group there was a commitment to create a Climate Action consultancy. We have done it and we are aware that we are going to find each other, that we are going to talk about it that concerns you as much as we do, and we will do it with diligence. Tomorrow we have to sit on the same table to talk about it. But, look, to develop a good model based on renewable energies we need to know who are the needs of these and who are the needs of the country we want. It is obvious that the sun, it is also obvious that the wind will be essential, but let's say that from the sun and the wind we have, to the forces places of Catalonia; from the wind too, eh? In the sun, it's gone. So what will really be important will be the land to capture this solar radiation and also, surely in a lesser measure, so, also the wind. And we're seeing it. The promoters identify the most extensive land, the most flat land, the easiest access and a prudential distance from the electrical networks to take in the energy produced and bring it to large distances. This, obviously, is no surprise, to lack of rules of play, if the only criteria – if the only criteria – is the price of the quilowatt/ hour. And this is directly impacting the land alone, directly, and directly impacting the economy of our people and our micro-people. In short, it is directly impacting our territories. Therefore, it is necessary to establish clear criteria and avoid any arbitrariness. Well, even though history is repeating itself, we want to do politics because the distribution and transformation model of the economy and society is imposed, and where energy is generated, it is also obviously new economic activity. And we are very clear that we need to do this from the side of those who have the key to transformation. In fact, there are only a few who have the key to transformation and who have so far been extremely underprivileged, and these are the territories. For this reason, it is so important to integrate energy policies with climate policies as well as rural development policies. For those who still see it with reticence – that there is certainly – I say to you that energy policy will work, from now on, folded with the rural agenda, because we do not want to repeat the extractive model of the country of the past century, as you also spoke to us. We know that the ecological transition is the only possible answer before the climate emergence that we are living. In fact, we are those who want an environmentally sustainable Catalonia, we want it innovative and, obviously, we also want it integral. And we're here to solve problems, not to create them. We're here to solve problems, no matter what, to create them. Therefore, with as much consent as possible, we want to transform an outdated model and we also want to walk towards a sustainable and responsible product model. We also want to push energy transition towards energy, of course, one hundred per cent renewables and we want, at the same time – and I don't know if it's too much to ask – but we want to make sense of deluding ourselves with oligopolises and, of course, also with its economic interests. And, in fact, let me also say... I think there is a real urgency, and this urgency..., and I am convinced that you will agree with me or you will agree with me that you are also in the formation of young people and also in the formation of workers. I'll explain. I also think you'll need to prepare these young people so that they're the ones that they're shooting at these and a lot of other projects, huh? : the installations, their maintenance, their management, and also project the projects of the installations with engineering, as it cannot otherwise be, of the territory, with local engineering. And this we have to do at the Institutes, we also have to do at the training centres in Catalonia and we have to take advantage of this opportunity – because we have, because it is, an opportunity – because our young people have – worth the redundancy – work opportunities in their municipality or in their region. Plus, also – and I ended up with this – another very important front will be that of working with agricultural cooperatives, huh? , and the pages because they are built into energy cooperatives. It is to say, distributed model, model of proximity, energetic communities, arming with the rural world, obviously, as it cannot be otherwise, to take advantage of these cooperative farms, to form our young people and to empower, as it cannot be otherwise, our citizenship. Because it's obvious that opening the light – opening the light – obviously, it doesn't have to be a privilege under the circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.272.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply, has the word Mr Pau Juvillà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.273.0	Well, ma'am counsel, yes. Moving towards the ecological transition, yes, and so much. But what we're talking about today is moving towards energy sovereignty, which is... it's two things that need to be folded, and one without losing one part of the transformative force. What do we care about politics? You were talking about the policies of the Generality. What do we care about the policies of the Generalitat? So the 'nposo two examples: the one, Sant Quirze de Besora. Sant Quirze de Besora will revert the Can Trinxet power plant by 2024; it can revert it before. What do we find? That the ACA is proposing to open a new concession. So, what this hydroelectric power plant, which could be left in public hands, which we could recover, the ACA wants to privatize again. This concerns us about the policies of the Generality. What's more worrying us? We are concerned that there are a number of people who have been working for a long time in the Fosca Valley to reverse the power stations that Endesa currently has and that the Generality has not moved a word in helping these people to get these power stations to pass into public hands. We're worried about that, too. We are concerned that, while Endesa in Vall Fosca cuts the enemy light of winter, the Generalitat does nothing. That's what we're worried about. Obviously, we will share the step of raw energies with net energies. Obviously we'll find each other, but we have to do something else. We have to move further, we have to move forward in sobrieties, we have to defend the people of the Fosca Valley, we have to recover the hydroelectric power plant of Sant Quirze for us, for everyone, not for private businesses that want to have a job. It's not a deal either – that too, huh? – to change these energy sources – which I also used to say – but to recover sobrieties. To recover for everyone, to nationalize the hydroelectric power stations and to recover this energy, to make this public energy to fight against the oligopolises, for which we say, to fight against these people who are making a benefit of the people, who are fleshing out with the most popular people, who are fighting the light, who will make this June the light higher, the highest of history. So, and what it is, it reverts back to the people who have fewer resources. Therefore, what we give is the energies, the basic sub-administrations must be in public hands to ensure that this is a right and not a commodity. We have to act against these oligopolises. What? The best way we know – the best way we know. Retrieving it for us, making this powerful public energy and, more importantly, intertwining and encircling this public energy from the energy model we want. This public energy must serve as an example of the energy model we want, of this decentralized model, of this renewable model, of this self-sufficient model and of this nuclear-free model. And besides, it has to be a public energy that allows you to work in the network with the municipalities and with the territory. Therefore, a public energy that is an example of what we want, a public energy that is focused on the territory and the municipalities. What we have been defending is, as I told you before, that this distribution of energy and, therefore, this distribution network, energy has to take the three steps: it has to take the generation that we can, the distribution that we can and the understanding that we can play a phone book to guarantee this access to energy, because, I say again, we understand that it is an essential and universal service, and not an economic interest service. So, madame, you said we'll see each other tomorrow. They obviously have our extended hand for this new energy model. They'll find us here, they'll find us safe. We will also find ourselves in this defense, in this work for this public energy. Let's sit down, but we don't have much time, because people are painted. And we believe that we need to act immediately by recovering these power stations, creating new sources of clean energy and basing this energy and this public energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.274.0	Thank you. Now you have the word to make the answer to the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.275.0	Yes, thank you very much. Congressman, I'm back: energy is a basic sub-administration, and it's obvious we have to guarantee it. And we, this councillor, are obviously in this sense against the oligopolis, obviously, of ferocious and speculative capitalism, and we go a little further, because you too have been very clear. We have to recover sobrieties, all of us. Obviously. And we need to make it quick, too. Since this government, there's no doubt that we're going to throw out a public energy. We will. Not as far as the end is concerned, uh, but as far as the medium is concerned, which is also important. We need to make sense of a tool, a strong tool that drives models of generation of co-participated renewable energies, importantly – in our understanding, and all this we will discuss – for the Generality, the entities and local businesses, obviously also the corporations, the assemblies and the citizenry. Also the citizenry, mediating these energetic communities, which I will now make a short note of, and also the recovery of extremely important hydro-electric concessions. Let's talk about the while, because this, you know as well as I do, despite the fact that we have the sisena, that we won't do it in a single day, but in the next few years I guarantee you that control because there is no abuse of power, whatever is in our hands and a little more, will be on the side of this council. We want to encourage – as I said – these energy communities as a central element in the transformation of the energy model. We will do this under the European legal framework because, in the end, our model is European. Renewable energy communities and civic energy communities. We understand it's this way to where it has to go. We don't have enough of the self-consumption shared within five hundred meters connected, that's true, at low voltage and with a limit of one hundred kilometers. We need to put on the table, for example, the medium-voltage distribution grid to advance in a self-sufficiency model connected between municipalities with generation installations from one to two megawatts. You're important. In the hands of the citizenry. This is the key, this is the sobriety that I understand you were talking to me, and so are the associations and organised cooperatives. We have cooperative farms wide and wide in the country too, take advantage of them. We're already working. In fact, we are a country of tradition in cooperatives – as I said – agri-food, and this, for sure, is a great action to advance in energy cooperatives. We could also talk about the electric car and other things that aren't smaller, absolutely, but how we do it today in a very broad way, raising focus, so if you let me, and I don't have time, I won't get in there. In summary, Mr. Congressman, I let myself be so. This co-participation department with all those parliamentary groups that are, of course, likely to be with the agreement that we obviously have with you as a government, and also as a political formation. We're clear that we'll work on five points, and we'll look at them if we can. But this is the full start of respect for energy policies, which is what you asked me about this late. The first is full energy sovereignty of our country. We'll have to kill and we'll have to point out exactly what that means. I am convinced that we will agree because I listened to her today, and you listened to me. I haven't seen any different masses. A_second point also important, research and energy innovation. Obviously, vital and important to the 21st century. Thirdly, to replace the production of nuclear energy by net and sustainable energy sources. Fourthly, to encourage – as I stress – these local energy communities to adapt the current formula to the new needs that have obviously generated this climate crisis, to which we must also adapt and which we must now be able to mitigate. I, lastly, work for the recovery of the management and ownership – importantissim – of hydroelectric power plants. More extensive, more extensive to work and to achieve once more these sobrieties, which so much we lack in this country for what we owe and what we think and why we work that is the citizenship of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.276.0	Well, thank you very much. [[Question to the Government about the need to reduce superfluous political spending]] [[300-00012/13]] Let's move on to the new order of the day, asking the government about the need to reduce superfluous political spending. It has been introduced by the Parliamentary Group of VOX and now has Mr. Joan Garriga to make the presentation of the inquiry. Joan Garriga Domenech Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the VOX Parliamentary Group in Catalonia we present this interpretation of the need to reduce unnecessary political spending. The inspiring principles of this interpellation are those of a good manager, as our Civil Code says, of a good father of a family, that is, the principles of good administration, which are no other than austerity, rationality, responsibility and effectiveness. They say they seek the well-being of all Catalans and we have more and more public spending, more taxes, more unemployment, more misery and more social emergencies to attend to. For example, 10,769 people died in Catalonia in 2000, 30 a day waiting for recognition of dependency. Having established the principles that we must all share, here we find that the Administration, in this case, the Generalitat of Catalonia, taking out financial expenditure, manages more than 27,000_million_of_euros, money that we have all achieved with our effort and that the Generalitat collects through direct contributions from the State, participation and taxes from the State or from own taxes. But in any case, we're talking about that, about money that's not about the counselor that's not about a party, that's not about the government, that's about everyone's money. Therefore, we must be strict in deciding where we are, because the Administration, as we have said, must be exemplary, austere, rational, responsible and effective. That is why we want to focus on spending that we objectively consider superfluous or indispensible, and to allocate those resources to more necessary, laudable and urgent objectives. They will have been able to observe that we are talking about what we and on the street here from this rostrum call ‘chiringuitos, all those who do not serve the general interest, are costly for the public coffers, prevent, with their existence and with their economic endowment, that other urgent or priority needs can be met. In total we have in our beloved region 1,309 public entities and we have counted 360 chiringuitos. In this inquiry from VOX we want to show that many of these entities are very expensive and their function is either limited or can be assumed by another public-private entity, for example, the Consortium of the Circuit of Catalonia, which could do so by a private entity if it is profitable. Or, directly, they can be removed. We're talking about unproductive spending. And let me emphasize one of these costs to exemplify what we want to put forward. The Catalan Autoritat de Protecció de Dades: 3_million_de_euros are suppressable. We have the National Data Protection Organization Act with its National Data Protection Agency, which even has sanctioning capacity. We have the Consorci Memorial de l'Exili, Memorial dels Espais de la Batalla de l'Ebre, Democratic Memorial : 2,5_million_de_euros. Investing in historical memory when there are people going through the bad here and now it's irresponsible. [[Some applause.]] Català de la Dona Institute : 20,57_million_de_euros. How many families we could help pay for their housing. The average mortgage or rental receipt is around five hundred_euros. We could pay forty-thousand receipts from families in difficulty to keep their home, to keep their home. Institut Català Internacional per la Pau : 1,4_million_de_euros. This makes me funny, because here they are generating a war with the theme of the process and they are dedicated to investing money to achieve peace in the world. Greuges syndicate : 6,8_million_euros. We have the Ombudsman with his delegations and his powers at national level. Why do we generate another chiringuito, another defender of the people here in Catalonia, who is sectarian above, has ideological delusions and has a libertised obsession with the education of our children? Offices of ex-presidents: 1.5_million_of_euros per year, life pay, dispatch paid for by everyone, escort and official car. Here is an example: the socialist Montilla, who invoiced the Generalitat around €462,000 last year. How many light receipts we could pay from people who can't assume that socialist-podemite rise that has 52_per_cent of taxes. How many receipts? Many, many, many. Catalan Media Corporation, with a cost of 240_million_de_euros, 2,300 employees, five televisions, four radios. Come on, it's a real scandal. Look, it's not rational, that expenditure, it's not austere and it's not responsible. By inheritance tax we collect around 500_million_of_euro. We could bonus it to fifty_per_cent, although we are in favour of bonus a 99_per_cent, but at least we can start there. We take the ‘body off us, who buys it whoever wants it, and we reduce the fifty_per_cent of the transit of loved ones when someone dies and has to go through the box to pay the inheritance tax. Consorci per la Normalizació Linguística, with a cost of 23_million_de_euro. This is already insulting to the name, because it is considered abnormal that does not speak Catalan. And no, no, ladies and gentlemen, we are normal Catalan speakers, Spanish speakers and we use freedom; we are perfectly normal and we are Catalans. Another important chapter is that of grants to entities, many of which work abroad. As here we have plenty of money and everything is so good, so we invest in solidarity abroad. They're millionaires, and I'm going to give some examples. Cultural projects, tens of millions. Delegations and offices and external missions, EUR 6,5 million. The Catalan Proselections Platform, in three years almost 10_million_de_euros. Direct subsidies to the media, direct subsidies to the private media, millions of euros. But that's right, if you speak Catalan, huh? If not, not a hard one, it doesn't seem that there's a drop somewhere that uses Spanish as usual. A separate chapter deserves the Catalan Agency for Development Cooperation, with a budget of 28,5_million_de_euro. Let us see some example of the endless subsidies of this cooperation body, supposedly for development, and which has a marked ideological trend. Associació Hèlia, 400,000_euros for women's empowerment and gender mainstreaming; 81,000_euros more to weave neighboring networks – feminists. Associação Novact, 400.000_euros for the strengthening of civil society not of Matadepera, no, Tunisian. Fundación Calala Fundo de Mujeres, 180,000_euros for a project called « Sexual and reproductive rights crossing oceans, network of feminist women and articulation of knowledge in..., not in Cornellà, no, in Guatemala. Associació Entrepobles, 250.000_euros for another project whose description says « cruïlla de camins, globalizem les alternatives ecofeministes. And we could go on for hours, but I don't want to bore you. Look, I don't understand. We don't share it, let alone have the social needs we have in our home. With what they spend on grants we could feed more than 34,500 more children with dining grants. Be brave and sincere, go to the queues of hunger, to the waiting lists of health, to tell the Catalans that they are wasting millions of euros of what they have brought with their suffering and their work. And then they dare to talk about social emergency. What a shame, what a shame! And why do we criticize him? Well, obviously, because you have to go very carefully with the money of all Catalans. Because it's sacred, because it's cost a lot of effort to pay taxes. And because there are urgent social needs to attend to. And because, in short, we have much room for improvement in many areas of government. And I'll give you some examples. Health, cuts in public health are taking too long. The waiting time for surgery in Catalonia is 223_days, Spain's second worst region. Security. We need more cops and we need more means. Education............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Parents in Catalonia are very, very discriminated against. In other regions they do not have to pay for school materials or school books when they have to start school in September. For example, the concerted school space does not cover, the concert, that cost of school space, and that is also an injustice to those who choose public education. Or not to mention the barracks: 1,049 barracks, the region with the most barracks in all of Spain. Housing, a social drama in housing. Social housing has not been built as it was built in Spain for years. And that is the solution for our housing, not the occupation that others defend, not limiting the market and not encouraging expropriatory measures that penalize the owners. There are 140,000 people waiting for social housing. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Councillor, we are presenting this question and we are proposing to abolish superfluous expenditure, to lower taxes in order to encourage the savings and investment that will make it possible to create jobs and to devote more public resources to social emergencies. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.277.0	Then there's the words of the Economics and History Advisor, Mr. Jaume Giró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.278.0	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, honourable Member. MPs and MPs, look, before anything else, let me tell you that language often brings us in and out and just wanted to make it an initial element. Miri, a good run of a house doesn't just make him a good father of a family. Normally and often better, a "mother of the family" does. He usually does two work days, one out and one out and I say it out of experience because my house has passed, they tried to help the maximum and I see it very often. Therefore, a family mother does it the same or better than a family parent and, therefore, allows me to do this little thing. Second of all, you've made a number of examples that don't fit me with the question I'm asking. You were talking about reducing superfluous expenses; "superfluous, according to the dictionary of the Catalan Institute of Studies, but also sure that the RAE says the same, are those expenses that do not respond to any concrete function, that are completely unnecessary and suddenly what you said, to me does not fit. Look, I'll tell you, first of all, that there is a repeated failure on the part of the State to finance the law of dependency and that if we can solve this problem we will surely have a lot more social resources than it is, the truth I tell you, the desire of the government and the majority that supports the government. Second place, listen, we're always on TV3; TV3, the body. Miri, the public contribution to the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation has fallen in two years from 334_millions to 254, in two years from 334 to 254. This is 80_million euros less in two years, which is a reduction of 23_per_cent. I'll tell you what, this counselor will do everything in his power to reverse this situation. We are at a time when every morning any citizen, any citizen of the country when morning rises has fortunately the enormous freedom, here in our country, to put drawings of television channels, drawings, most of them, certainly, controlled by a duo with a majority of Italian capital, German and French, more than all the channels we can find on the platforms, more than all the payment platforms. And, despite all this, TV3 continues to be a leader years back for the individual freedom of every citizen of this country. Therefore, listen to me, in a small country like this, which has a language, a culture and a self-identity, we believe that it is necessary to demand a quality television, a plural television, but it must help to maintain a media such as TV3, Catalonia Radio and all the media of the public ecosystem of Catalonia. And unfortunately... I say this to you despite a campaign that I have noticed especially virulent and, on the assumption that it is not spontaneous, against TV3 since the month of April. Some strange force articles that, from the beginning of April, try to compare TV3 with Fox and make people believe that we have a television that sees it as something like the big brother who manipulates a completely uncultivated and ignorant people who let it be manipulated. It would be really sad if you didn't laugh. Then you also spoke of a series of institutes and entities that I, as a matter of fact, Mr. Garriga, are necessary for the country. They all bring what we think they have to bring, and the problem we have is that we lack funding. That is the problem that Catalonia really has. And that's a truly superfluous expense, to continue in a state where 16,000_millions of people are left and they don't come back. That, for me, is a superfluous expense. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.279.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply, has the word Mr. Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.280.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Giró, for challenging me. Look, in the language you're right. I have used a term that I studied in law that is this of the good father of the family, but I take his glove and make it extensive as well and share it, a good tribute to the mothers. We have all had a mother; most of us have been able to live it and I join this tribute to the mothers who deserve it. Let us also support birth, let us support motherhood. Less abortion, less... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] More support for pregnant and distressed women so that we can build and have more mothers present and more children present in our society. [[Some applause.]] And I'm telling you from experience, huh? , because the entities provided are dedicated to discouraging women. The abortion isn't because she has..., it's because she's overwhelmed – it's because she's overwhelmed. [[Widow's remorse.]] But this is not today's debate. Fiscal deficit. Yes, Mr Giró, that of many Catalans who have contributed a lot for years and, when you need social assistance, there is no money left because, frankly, we have wasted it. It is the case of Roser – who I tried the other day –, unemployed because he has not been allowed to work in the last year, selling glasses – represented several brands – and recently paid three_ thousand_euros for his father's death, thousand_quinentes of surplus value; he paid the ITP when he bought the house, thirty_ thousand_euros; he has paid thousands of euros in IRPF, and now he asks the Catalan Administration, the Generalitat, to be able to pay his house and be able to stay for a few more months, and they do not give it to him. That is the fiscal deficit of Catalans, that is the real fiscal deficit of the society that is living every day. Let us not make it so global; let us think of people and less of territories. TV3 and the body. I'm glad the investment is down – I'll have to contrast it. I don't believe it, 240_million is a lot of money. And five televisions, four radios, 2,300 employees, more than private televisions, is that it's not sustainable, it's a whim. Hey, and if she's so good and sees so many people, we privatize her and buy her Roures or her friends from the Box, someone who wants to buy her and wants to keep her. But we don't have to pay for all that chiringuito, which in the end is a sectarian machine of hatred, division, confrontation and which continually discriminates against parties like ours, which we are also Catalans and represent more than two hundred_ thousand citizens. [[Greetings.]] And, finally, necessary, these chiringuitos? Listen, a good mother of a family before leaving her son unattended and not giving him dinner does not pay dinners to other children, to other citizens, first attend to her, first to the house. And that's why we question these overseas aids, because to help, first yours go. And, look, if you don't understand, we'll explain it to you again in other words, but we think it's urgent to stop wasting, to stop wasting Catalan money. They are many millions of euros; we have calculated about 1,000_million_of_euros that we could save ourselves in whimsical chiringuitos – whoever wants to pay them – and be able to actually allocate those in social assistance to Catalan people, our family, neighbors who are having a really bad time. Thank you very much, and good afternoon. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.281.0	To make the reply, the Economics and History Councillor has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.282.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Miri, as I am sure that we will not agree on the priority of spending and not on the definition of what is superfluous or not superfluous, I am asking that – making holiday, sure that the last quarter of the year, we will begin the processing of assumptions – in the new assumptions you can present all those points that I feel opportune to be able to eliminate all that amount of entities that you want to suppress, and then vote on, count and pull forward. That's why democracy is said, and I'd appreciate it if you did that. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.283.0	Thank you very much. [[Asking the Government about the Catalonian dialogue]] [[300-00015/13]] Let's move on to the desire of the agenda, which is the question to the Government about the Catalonian dialect, presented by the Socialist Group and Unites pour Avançar. Mrs. Alicia Romero has now spoken to make the presentation of the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.284.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, councillor, councillor, deputies and deputies. The dialogue is one of the forms of expression intrinsic to coexistence and democracy today. There are people, who are one of the most important German thinkers we have ever had, from Frankfurt School, who says that ‘the dial, among many other things, should conform to three concrete elements; the recognition of the other: I listen to the other, I admit its presence and I link myself with it in this dial. It speaks of rationality, that is, that in the dialog there must be reasons, arguments, something that you can counter. And a third, which is the awareness of this communication process, isn't it? This around, this feeling of everything, isn't it? That what we're generating is a whole that we can do together. Therefore, this dialog, which is true that the conform many elements, but these are really important between the parts that conform, allow us to recognize, give our opinion, very often change it while we are in this dialog, and therefore, according to our will but we also transform it into the dialog. And this is probably the wealth of conversation, isn't it? , which also allows us to change our opinion. In fact, the dialog has been the way to resolve many conflicts long from humanity, hasn't it? and, therefore, we end or end up conclosing that it is surely the only democratic way to resolve conflicts. In Catalonia, unfortunately, we carry two years immersed in an institutional crisis, a fraction of which we all surely have a share of responsibility, some, obviously, more than others, and a fraction which has led to a crisis, a political, economic, and social paralysis, and which has generated a left in our coexistence. I think all the less we can accept this diagnosis. The result of not doing politics, or of doing a policy of trenches, has clearly been this Catalonia, hasn't it? , having had a Catalonia blocked and a Catalonia stagnant for some time. Therefore, as we have said many times, to political problems call political solutions. The Government of Spain, formed a few months ago for the Socialist Party and the United Nations We can, he heard it that way, and clearly changed his attitude with regard to Catalonia, the Government of the Generality. I think that this is obvious and that it contrasts a lot with that attitude that the People's Party held. So much so that February 26, 2020 was the table of the dialog, led by President Sánchez and the student president Torra. It was that first meeting that laid the foundations of a dialog, a meeting that was positive. So it was established in the community that both governments developed and that, unfortunately, did not keep up with the pandemic and have a government in place. But we are convinced that this will resume'very soon because this is the will of the Government of Spain and we believe, for which we have listened in the last few days, also of the Government of Catalonia. In fact, the Government of the Generality, in this new Government formed by Esquerra and Junts for Catalonia and also with the support of the CUP, speaks about it in its governing agreements, speaks about it in the government agreement of Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra. That's where the dialog table is legitimized, and it's true that in the CUP too, even though we don't like it so much, because the CUP puts a term in it, puts a limitation, puts a condition in it, that's the time. We believe that the dialog cannot have a date of expiration. The dialog is dialog, it needs its time. Because, precisely, in that conversation, which Habermas was talking about, in this dialog we need confidence, to generate complicity, and sometimes it's not easy to do, it takes time. And, therefore, we don't like the CUP this time, and we think it should rise up to try to make this dialog honest, be honest, and don't go with any type of press. But, as I said, this table of dialogue between governments that they want, the Government of Spain and also the Government of Catalonia, but we often talk about a table that we lack and that we propose and that we propose it after this question to the subsequent motion that is a table in Catalonia. Why are we saying this? Because it is obvious that the agreement that is made between Spain and Catalonia needs the agreement between the Catalans. If the Government of the Generalitat has defended before the Government of Spain the common of a few, who share a few, a part of the Catalans, it is not all. It seems to us that the Government of Catalonia is much more legitimized if, on the basis of the table of the dialogue with the Government of Spain, there are issues of major concern to the Catalans. Mostly it means a large gruix, not just 52 or 48 or 53, but a large gruix of Catalans. Mirin – I always set this example, but it seems to me that it is very relevant – at the end of the last legislature, we created the Commission for Economic and Social Reconstruction as a result of the pandemic. We did a job for all the major groups, and finally they agreed, agreed, one hundred and four proposals in those conclusions. I see here Deputy Riera, who finally did not join the CUP, but we managed to get the majority of groups to join. That is to say, there were quite a lot of groups that we accepted one hundred and four proposals in the field of health, education, taxation, European foundations. Therefore, we were all able to give in to wake up and add up, at a time when we needed to build and move forward. And it seems to me that this is very uplifting. We're covering the 135 that we're here to lay on the table where you join us and leave a little band behind that separates us. And so, to us, what we would like is to be able to create a table of parties in Catalonia in which we can dialogue without press, with confidence, generating complicity to see what is what unites us, what is what unites us mostly to the Catalans. Obviously, you have raised some issues about the table, such as amnesty, self-determination, but it seems to us that these issues do not generate an overwhelming majority. They're mostly, I mean, a 50, a 52; no, but we don't know if a large majority, we think they don't. And, in any case, there are other themes as well; other themes that, surely, could generate vast majority. And we would be happy if this table of Catalan parties could speak precisely of which are these themes: if it is finance, if it is more competition, if it is a defense of our language, of our culture. There are many fears which concern the Catalans and we would like this table of parties, without rush, generating confidence, in an environment, therefore, precisely, that allows the counterposition of positions, opinions, allow us to have these issues, these areas that most Catalans have or share because later, this Government of the Generality can defend them before the Government of Spain. It seems to us that he would have much more legitimacy than if the Government of his Government were present in this table of dialogue only with these two themes that are constantly coming out. Look, President Aragones says he's been in the Economy Circle for a while now... he almost wanted to quote what he said, because it seems like a good time to connect him with what I'm saying. He said: "I want to be very clear with the compromise to open a stage of dialogue and negotiation. We want to be able to defend the solution that, from our point of view, is the solution: self-determination and amnesty. And the State must be able to defend its proposal. If from our point of view, what is our point of view, President Aragonès? The one of amnesty and self-determination, the one of a few, the one of the Catalans? No, our point of view. He, President Aragonès, who committed himself here, in the investiture debate, to being the president of all, must be able to go with a proposal that is much more majority, that is really of all, that everyone feels comfortable there. And when you say this, that's what he said he did to us in that investment debate where he said to us: "I want to be the president of everyone. We think that, if that's the case, if that's the truth, there's got to be a good job. We have to have this table of Catalan parties, which, in fact, is a table that was approved a while ago, in the previous parliamentary term in this Parliament, it was approved by all groups, also for the Republican Left Group and Junts for Catalonia, and it was put on the march. We would have to conjure up everything to form again in order to open up this frank and sincere dialogue that allows us to find out which are those major elements. And if it's amnesty, then go ahead. If we want to talk about everything we can talk about, obviously, but we would like to see that there is a job between all of us, a job between all the groups, between all the Catalan parties, to see if they are these, they are others, they are more, they are less. We think this is very important. If the president of the Generalitat wants to be president of everyone, that he responds to the requests of everyone, that I speak to everyone, that we find ourselves, that we recognize each other, that we give ourselves the reasons that we are also willing to change, to modify our point of view, to move forward without hurry, without conditions as we set ourselves the CUP, without temporal limit. It seems to us that this is very important, it is the experience of Pedralbes that was invoked today by President Aragones in this meeting of the Circle of Economy, and I think it is what we need in Catalonia. To expand, to generate complicity, to be able to speak of everything, to establish 'none of the same table and that from there emerge the conclusions, the themes, the areas that we need to defend before the Spanish Government. That is why, Counselor, this inquiry was precisely a dialog, a sincere dialog that we ask for, and this table, which seems to us to be the best way to start this encounter, this backlash between Catalans. We don't just think that we have a conflict with the Spanish State, but that we also have it between the Catalans, that we don't all think alike, but that what we all think is respected and must be respected between each other. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.285.0	Thank you very much. The words of Councilwoman Laura Vilagrà, Councilwoman of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.286.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. I thank you for all, for the kind words, for the kind words that we did not hear this late in the mouth of some party that even sounded insulting, insulting to the Catalan language, culture, the will of solidarity and, above all, insulting to the women of this country. But let's take these words aside and go back to the question presented to us by the Socialist Group, tell him that I would like to begin by expressing that, in fact, the Government of Catalonia has always – always, always – had a desire for dialogue, and we have shown it. They did a bit of memory, because we don't want to go through some of the things that have happened to us in the past few years and that are really hard, so explain that after many months of negotiation all the parliamentary groups that then had representation, except the People's Party, agreed to approve the reform of the Catalonian State of Autonomy, the year 2005. Then the new statutory text passed to the Congress of Deputies for its debate. From that negotiation process – indeed it was a negotiation – came a new text that incorporated a few downs already at that time. Once the Congress of Deputies had approved that text, lowered, came the turn of the city of Catalonia, which we voted in a referendum in favor of the text approved to the Courts. As we see, until now a well-defined, well-pulsed process, according to constitutional norms. But after being referred to and entered into force we found ourselves with the presentation of unconstitutionality remedies that were supposed to be the initiator of the judicialization of politics or the politicization of justice, as you prefer. A contemptuous court, with disqualified members, tried four years to draft the Constitutional Court's judgment with the results for all known. They left an unrecognizable statutory text, distorting it, unilaterally, in this case yes, unilaterally, there approved by the people. Since then, since 2010, Catalonia has been living under the statutory regime that has decided four judgments and not the referendum approved by the people of Catalonia. A hard attack on democracy and a hard mistake on the part of the Spanish State. As neither following the procedure established for the same Constitution served to improve the self-government of Catalonia, as demanded by the vast majority of citizens, effectively a process of independence was initiated. In fact, the same President Montilla at his moment already warned of the disaffection that would mean the fact that the Statute of Autonomy would be retaliated. And, in any case, the successor governments of Catalonia have promoted various attempts to negotiate after the escape of the Statute by the Constitutional Court. All of them failed, due to the Government of Spain's nullity of dialogue. And, meanwhile, the will of Catalonian citizenship, generally went up, went into the sense of becoming an independent state, and in fact grew rapidly the support for the party that wanted the independence of Catalonia. From this majority year came the will that the Catalan society decided peacefully and democratically its political future, through a reference of independence, where the citizenry could decide whether it wanted to be independent or not. The citizen's pulse led us, the Government of Catalonia, to organize the consultation on 9 November and the U d'Octubre referendum. The will of the various governments of Catalonia to give out to the majority demands of the Catalan society has, it was assumed, assumed, the violent and repressive response of the various powers of the State. Despite everything, the Government of Catalonia has always had a clear will for dialogue and negotiation. Unfortunately, we cannot say the same of the Spanish governments. Let us hope that now yes, that now yes, finally we can start a stage of negotiation, which leads us to the resolution of the conflict between Catalonia and Spain. But we're not in a normal setting, and I don't want to go through it, and we still have our political and social leaders, who organized the U of October referendum, locked up in jail or exile. In the 21st century, we have to see how democrats are locked up or have seen themselves caught in exile. For us it is a complete shame, an ignominy that continues to come accompanied by more repression on the part of various judicial and police stations. The Council of Europe has made it clear to the Spanish State – release of prisoners and prisoners, the son of repression and open and constructive dialogue – in a demolition report prepared for the Committee of Legal Affairs and Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. To the majority of the citizenry to be able to democratically decide its future policy, it adds the majority will of the Catalan society to end the repression. In fact, even his entire electorate, the socialist electorate, according to the last barometer of the CEO, says that a 53_per_cent is in favour of resolving the political conflict by means of a referendum. Therefore, self-determination and amnesty are the majority claims of Catalan society. These are the objectives which, according to the consensus that exists in our society, the Government of Catalonia has adopted to put on the table any process of dialogue and negotiation with the Government of the State. The Government of Catalonia works because this political conflict between Catalonia and Spain is resolved politically, effectively, and out of the courts, one should never have entered. Political issues are resolved politically, not judicially, and in order to resolve a political conflict it is clear that there is a lack of willingness to dialogue, negotiation and agreement. But in any case, I must say that we are celebrating that, for the first time in history, there is a Spanish government that recognizes the existence of political conflict and that can give it answers from politics. It is a historical fact that a government of the Spanish State has shown a predisposition to the dialog and has managed to form this table of dialogue and negotiation and agreement between the Catalan Government and Spanish. I must also say that we do not know how this dialogue process will end, but we should all take advantage of this historic opportunity, this window of opportunity to do things with a democratic maturity, as has been done before by Scotland or Quebec. The Government of Catalonia is aware of this opportunity and also of the risks it carries, since historically, from the Spanish State, they have never blown the winds of deep democratic culture. The Government of Catalonia, in its conjunction, wants to start a process of dialogue with the Spanish Government, with the will that the Catalan people can finally pronounce on their future. And, in any case, the political forces that we support or support this government also agree to give an opportunity to dialogue and negotiation, even though with greater or lesser scepticism, they depend on which formation, and in front of the doubts in relation to the soliments. But in any case we have a system for evaluating and monitoring the results of this trading table. Yes, the formations that we support the government make it clear that the dialog table is either talking to it or it will talk about amnesty and self-determination. To talk about finance or infrastructure we already have bilateral commissions that, in fact, we have not started talking to the Barcelona Assembly either, because the Barcelona Assembly is also interested in working on these aspects. And we would say that some of the formations that don't support the government also share the need to end political repression and the need to be able to put the future policy in the hands of citizens. Therefore, our bet is a pact for self-determination and amnesty that we want as wide as possible. Notwithstanding this, the Government, with President Aragones in the lead, will maintain a frank and sincere dialogue with all parliamentary political forces of democratic tradition because it also supports this negotiation process. In fact, an example are the findings that we have maintained this week, and with its group as well, with representatives of various parliamentary groups in the Palau de la Generalitat. In any case, with the aim of exercising the right to self-determination and amnesty, we want to move from an early stage of dialogue, which we have experienced, let us say, on the part of the Spanish Government, to an effective negotiation process with all the guarantees that make it possible. The negotiation with the Spanish Government would be, if it is given the right conditions, the most desirable way to resolve the political conflict between Catalonia and Spain. For this reason, we must work together to make it possible with the objective of effective political solutions. From the parties we support the government, they are clear. The negotiating agenda, we have already commented, must consist of the exercise of the right to self-determination and amnesty. It should be noted that there is a compromise that any possible agreement will be validated for the citizens of Catalonia. Until now, the Spanish Government has not initiated a real negotiation process, but we would appreciate it – and we know it will be so – that parties like its own, like the PSC, would defend before the Spanish Government the majority interests of Catalonian citizens and, therefore, would not defend the interests strictly of the Government of Spain. It is desirable that the PSC return to the great consensus that exists in society and, therefore, return to being part of the solution. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.287.0	Thank you, Counselor. Now, to answer that question, Congresswoman Alicia Romero has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.288.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I thank you all. Some things. Look, I think we need to look at the past so that we don't make mistakes, but we don't need to look at it too much, because if we don't fall into that storm of doing too much toilets, and I don't think that's helping to move forward. And I think we need to look to make no mistakes, not to fall into those failures, but we also need to try to move forward in this sense. And you've made a long explanation, haven't you? He spoke of the Statute... I just wanted to say one thing: to change the Statute, to change an article of the Statute, we need two thirds of this Parliament, more than ninety Members; to make independence you wanted to do it with 51 percent of this Parliament. It doesn't seem logical that to want to break the situation in which he sees Catalonia in a state that would please us more federally we need less – less – support than to change the State. So, here too, it would be good for all of us to learn about the mistakes we've made. You've talked a lot about the government or the relationship and the dialog table between the government of Spain and Catalonia. We say yes, that we agree. I'd just miss it. The PSC has always been here, it's always been on the dial, and I think the Socialist Party has also been working Spanish, in the face of Pedro Sánchez, I think he's a brave president, with courage. And so, in this sense, all the support. Now, the government of the generality, with what demands? Now we would like the demands to be able to work among the Catalan parties. I mean, we can go with a consensus that's more overwhelming than the ones that generate amnesty and self-determination. You say: "Many voters... 52_per_cent – I think you said – or 53_per_cent of Socialist voters want to vote. Yeah, if we want to vote too. If the Socialist Party wants to vote. What we would like to vote on, however, is an agreement, not a division. We do not want to vote a yes or no to break our relationship between the Catalans and also with Spain. We want to vote on an agreement, and this agreement would have to come out of a planned job between the Catalans. It's just that you seem to be throwing a little for the right; you're shooting for the right with what part of the Catalans want. But where are all the Catalans? What do most Catalans want? We should go and find great consensus. You say: « The PSC, with the great consensus; the PSC, starts from the solution. I'm telling him we've been here a long time. We would also like the independence parties to be part of the solution so as not to cause us problems and failures. And I say it with all respect and with all the affection, and you know it. But we have to be all part of the solution and, to be all, we have to put all of us to work, with our different points of view, with our focus, with our accents. And I have the feeling that the Government of the Generality is stuck in this position of going to defend only what they share the three parties that have given support to the Government. I think we should be more generous, that we should be able to take all the Catalan parties into the dialog table and look for those points in the same way that we could go to defend before the Spanish government. Of course, other things are the infrastructure that the Government has to defend, but we are talking – I think – about the relationship we have with Spain from this conflict, but also about what we have between the Catalans, who unfortunately live here and with great tension. But there is, there is, and therefore we would like this to work with a table. Moreover, I do not understand what has changed since three years ago, where I believe that the situation today is better than three years ago, when that motion for a resolution was voted when they agreed to form that table of dialogue between the Catalan parties. That's to say, in any case, we should now be more inclined to make that table than when he voted favorably three years ago, where the tension was more evident between the parties. So, we don't understand why we're ending up..., or it seems that the government is resisting this table of the dialect between Catalan parties, that it did vote favorably in this Parliament a few years ago, and that, in addition, it did stand in the way. We, as you can imagine, will be presenting this point to the young man three weeks from now. And we'd love to know what the government really thinks. If the Government is clear that it wants to talk to the Catalan parties as well about what is the conflict we have between us and what points of agreement we can put on the table or if it really gives it to close and will go to defend before the Government of Spain only the interests on the one hand. And we'd be happy to make it clear. The President of the Generality said: "I want to be the President of all. Well, let's get started. We follow everyone's president and we go to defend mostly those themes that we can all come together on. We think he'll have a lot more legitimacy, honestly. If we constitute a table of Catalan parties, we will have much more legitimacy before a Spanish government, before the Government of Spain in order to defend what we want. Vice-President Junqueras said it – he said it in the articles..., the last one he published to Ara: "Dialeg and negotiation are essential – he said. So listen'm, prove it. Let's show what we can do for the Catalans all together and vote yes and gather this table of dialog between all the Catalan parties. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.289.0	To make the reply, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.290.0	Thank you, President. Well, we, like the Government of the Generality, are focusing our efforts on this table of dialogue with the State, but it is also true that we must resolve the situation of repression. And now you allow me to make a point in relation to the report of the Human Rights Legal Affairs Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I'll try to dissect him a little. If we look at it in words, « criminal matters, « legal matters,» he therefore forgave justice; « human rights, human rights linked to the application, in the case of political prisoners and political prisoners, of principles such as freedom of expression or free exercise of their duties without punishable consequences; « the assembly of parliamentarians and parliaments of the Council of Europe, that is, the maximum legislative representation in this case of the club of states which is the Council of Europe, evaluating a report from Spain and Turkey, precisely, clearly calls for the freedom of political prisoners and prisoners and the fission of repression, to end with the extradition process of political leaders who are abroad. And concretely he says: "The mere expression of independent opinions is not a motive for criminal persecution. It was just this fact that they were prosecuted and sentenced to long sentences for making statements – for making statements – in the exercise of their mandate in support of the reference. I continues: "You cannot demand to give up your ideas. It is not possible to demand that political opinions be repudiated in order to achieve more favourable prison regimes, that is to say, it is not possible to demand that, in the case of the third degree, when they were revoked, when they were revoked the third degree was supposed to be due to the lack of pendiment that had not been shown. So that's what they're saying from Europe that's not a waste. Or the opportunity of pardons, which the report also talks about. Europe tells the Spanish State that it has violated its fundamental rights, and the report is drawn up by a socialist Member of its group, a Latvian Member of Parliament, Boriss Cilevics, and approved for 75 % of the votes in favour. And it's worth reading the English text. And anyway, the conclusions, which is what I read, which are very enlightening. The report asks: "Should Catalan politicians have been prosecuted for statements made by girls in the exercise of their mandate? And ask not to criminalize the organization of a reference. He also calls for the removal of charges against the rest of the ranks, let's say, inferior to the advisers or advisers to organize the U of October. He also called for absolved from sanctioning successes for symbolic actions expressing solidarity. And above all, where I'm going and today's theme, it calls for an open and built dialog to strengthen democratic quality. Therefore, I hope that the PSC will aim at this open and built dialog. Therefore, it is a paradigm shift for the Council of Europe to present to us. All communication media, in fact, highlight this issue on a regular basis. There was at the time – and yet there is – an abuse of judicial power, a general case against independence and against independenceist ideas and, therefore, it is a challenge to the totality for which it has been done so far. In fact, passing all the communication media, all were in the same line: "The Human Rights Committee of the Council of Europe calls for the release of prisoners from the U of October. There are from La Vanguardia, from ElDiario. It's, from the Sixth, Eph, that's to say, of all, let's say, ideological orientations, therefore, highlight this fact. Therefore, the agreement of Strasbourg has on various occasions ruled in this sense, in the need of freedom of expression, to promote the building dialogue. This report, therefore, supports the dialogue to achieve a political solution, but it also supports amnesty, because it speaks of the possibility of making this forgiveness of penalties decreed for a state as an exceptional measure for all prisoners convicted of certain types of crime, usually of political type. Obviously, this issue is also important for us, and we need to be able to resolve it. We celebrate, as we said, but – and we return to the question we have been talking about – that the Government of the Spanish State recognizes the existence of this political conflict, not indispensable to solve the problem, and that you accept to resolve this conflict through the establishment of a table of dialogue and negotiation. And, obviously, here he will find us. And we celebrate that you have repeatedly expressed your will for dialogue. But as long as this does not happen or is not concrete or does not land, from the Government of Catalonia we call on the various parliamentary forces with the capacity to influence the Spanish Government that has the right to move them which are these great consensus of the Catalan society. And they are ending repression and, therefore, amnesty and also giving the right to decide to the people of Catalonia. In fact, our proposals are public, transparent, we have explained them in the different governance agreements. And I believe that the citizens of Catalonia will be pleased that they are able to translate these majority requests, these social consensuses that exist in the case of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.291.0	Thank you very much. [[Asking the Government about external action]] [[300-00014/13]] Let's get to the point of the order of the day, which is the government's inquiry into foreign action. It is presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, and now has the word Mr Josep Rius to make the presentation of the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.292.0	Thank you very much, President. Benvolgudes consellers, deputies, deputies... Well, first of all, it is an honor for me to be part of this chamber as representing the citizenry of Catalonia in this legislature of the 52_per_cent mandate and to work, in short, to improve the lives of citizens. And among these tasks there is also the representation of our country and how we interact and value ourselves in this world: external action. The presence of Catalonia in the world is not new. In fact, we carry decades positioning ourselves internationally in fields such as research, innovation, entrepreneurship, culture, sport or international cooperation. And we also position ourselves in the world through our institutions, as well as internationalizing our businesses and entities, attracting investments and consolidating the Catalonia brand. In short, explain to us how he was born. What are the nations? Where are his people, his businesses, his language, his way of life, his social fabric, his view of the world's problems? But it's mostly from the U of October that it produces a paradigm shift. This change places Catalonia as the bulwark for the defence of the fundamental rights and has projected us as a people with a will to decide, freely and democratically, their future. And all this with the great inconvenience of having to face a state, governments that govern in La Moncloa, with all the derivations of authority to defend its national unit. To list the authoritarian tics of the State as a result of the First of October would be an endless task: from the existence of key-gatherers, with the Catalonia operation to the front; a general cause of enterprise from the high judiciary and the monarchy, with political prisoners, with exiles and with more than three thousand reprisals; the continuing violations of fundamental rights; another grave example that is now occupied by us is the open cause for the Court of Auditors to prevent the external action of the Government of Catalonia, and above all – above all – the speech of the 3rd of October king, who is the mother of all authoritarian tics. This external action of the Generality is focused on projecting Catalonia in all its futures and, as a result, you know that to tempt against the external action of the Government is also to tempt against the progress and economic, social and cultural projection of all the city, voting for which they vote. And what do they claim with this? , resume the attempt of cultural liquidation against Catalonia that started the franchise? To deny all the proclamations that can come from Madrid, the Catalans have all the international victories achieved from exile; incontestable victories to the European courts, such as now Germany, Belgium, Scotland, the very Court of Justice of the European Union, which have contributed to the European public's understanding of their opinion respecting our struggle. The Spanish propaganda attempt to introduce us as economic egoists or Europhobics has failed and strengthened the link of the independence movement, with the ideal of defending human rights in front of a state that is not totally combated. And that's not to talk about the outcomes of political prisoners' appeals to the European Court of Human Rights, which will eventually allow the party to play in neutral camp and with unpurchased referees. Also, the ballot boxes have led to great successes, as now the seats in the European Parliament, occupied by three exiled and officially recognised policies in September 2019, after a fierce opposition from the State in all its spheres; and now this struggle of exile is materialized with the exceptional maintenance of its parliamentary immunity. Spain had never generated so much disaffection among European partners. All these victories and the fact that President Puigdemont and the Councillors Comin and Ponsati are today MEPs, with their rights intact, as well as the fact that Belgian justice has firmly denied the extradition of Councillor Puig, to consider that his right to natural justice is violated and that there was a high risk that his right to the presumption of innocence is also violated, all this also shows us that the international action of exile has met its main objective; and this is to show that this is not an internal matter and to turn it into a genuine European issue for all its effects. And this cannot be an internal matter – now in plain reference the Councillor of the Presidency – when the Human and Legal Rights Committee of the Council of Europe stands against the existence of political prisoners and exiles and demands on Spain the fiction of repression, as otherwise the UN Arbitrary Detention Team had already done. In fact, these days we have seen as the same expression of this working group hopes that the European Court of Human Rights will strongly condemn Spain for political prisoners, for the abuse of the general right and repeated violations of the fundamental rights. The situation is such that Europe can no longer move for the world without comparing what Spain does against Catalonia with countries such as Turkey, Russia, China, Hungary or Poland. This is the link to which Spain plays for what it does to its international prestige, « the brand Spain. And we must not forget that the PSOE, which presumes to be "the most progressive government in history, was the indispensable partner for applying Article 155, and therefore of all the repression that has taken place since then. Not so long ago, in fact, it was manifesting itself to deny the right to self-determination; and we all remember Minister Iceta's photograph with the PP and Ciutan on October 17. Moreover, we have a fellow Member who came to say, on April 2018, that if it was applied on 155 after September 6 and 7, 2017, we would have cleared up many things. For what it seems, 155 even came too late; what things. Members, there will be no solution to the conflict if its essence is not addressed, which is nothing other than the exercise of the right to self-determination; this is a right to which we have no right to renounce. We have such a good Spanish as the United Kingdom, but if it isn't, there'll have to be a Quebec. The reminders that the references to Quebec were unilateral, and that, afterward, the Supreme Court of Canada fully recognized the right of Quebec to summon references, according to its own law and without anyone being able to prevent it, and, more recently, this aspect has also been ratified by the Superior Court of Quebec. Our duty, as citizens and as public representatives, is to persist and resist, because nothing will stop us from internationalizing the mistreatment of the Catalan national minority. Counselor, I am convinced that we share this vision of country and future. There are many areas where constructive and state-of-the-art outside action can take long, and this is urgent and essential. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.293.0	To answer, the letter has the External Action and Transparency Advisor, Victòria Alsina.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.294.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Catalan Parliament, this is my first intervention in this chamber and, in fact, it is an honor to be able to address the deputies and elected deputies of my country. The next eight years I lived in the United States, where I spent my time from teaching and research, first at Harvard University and then at New York University, helping my country in everything I could. Without forgetting my origins and always available, when I was called upon to take a step forward to the service of Catalonia I never doubted to do so; first, as the government delegate to the United States, after coordinating the Catalonian Strategy 20-22 of the Generality and now as the Councillor of Foreign Affairs and Government Obert. In fact, for me to be a part of this government and to be the advisor to all of you and all of the Catalans for the Exterior Visit and for the Obert Government is an authentic honor and a responsibility. This government will explain to the world what Catalonia is and what happens in Catalonia. No distortions. We'll do this colza-to-colza work with the country's conjunction. We'll do it with the economic world, teaming up with the Department of Enterprise to promote exports, capture investments and attract the best tourism. With the Department of Culture, University and Research, because the talent we have in the world is the best things we have. With Greeting, who is a referent, with Territories and Digital Policies, who are the basis of an open and creative economy that gives added value and creates quality jobs. We want to place the international action of the Generality at its highest level. We have all the right, there is all the citizenship of Catalonia; they are no better than none, but neither are they less. The deputy is right to recall that Spain had never generated these levels of political disaffection in the international community, between its members and in the international organizations. It should be for all a red light that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, an organization that has as its objective the promotion and defense of democracy, human rights and the state of the right, express its concern for the heavy violations of rights. Its Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights has criticized the fact that several Catalan leaders have been prosecuted and sentenced for girl statements in the exercise of their political mandates, and has also urged the State to stop asking the Catalan politicians to deny their opinions. So, I would also like to recall that it means that the US Department of State is doing nothing but in its report on human rights in Spain from the conclusions of the United Nations Arbitrary Detention Working Group, which considers the engagement of Catalan leaders to be a form of political intimidation. In view of the foregoing, we have the right to think that it is precisely the sum of all these pronouncements and the part of the State to condemnations of international judicial or political institutions, which is accelerating the granting of pardons that, rather than representing a simple personal solution and putting in conflict with the suffering of political prisoners, their families, do not solve the problem of causes, which is the refusal of the State to respect the decisions of the Catalans expressed in the ballot box and in the political use of justice to persecute thousands of citizens. New years ago, the British Prime Minister agreed to a referendum on independence linked to the Government of Scotland, which, before Britain, was democratised. Catalonia and Scotland share the same national goal. No peaceful and democratic independence movement with as high a social support and majority as the Catalan has made so many attempts to demand that the central government listen to the requests of the Catalan society expressed at the polls. In fact, it is never more to remember repeatedly that the right to decide is a state policy that goes beyond this government, and is collected by other groups of this chamber. Unfortunately, Spain has chosen to resolve this conflict by judicial means, a way that takes different forms, all of which have caused an unjustifiable and unnecessary anguish. For this reason the granting of pardons cannot suppose a tempt to pass the page and forget the more than three thousand reprisals. The conflict will be resolved when the Catalan people arrive at the amnesty and can freely exercise the right to self-determination. I want to take advantage of my first intervention in the House of Commons to put a flagrant case of political persecution at the centre of public attention. The Court of Auditors cited on June 29, forty General Staff members to liquidate financial and interim guarantees, which may be millionaires. These public servants, a large part of whom are or have been linked to the department that I have the honour to encapsulate, are responsible, at the accounting level, for the government's expenses in the field of external action, while being perfectly legal and appropriate to the generalities. The Court of Auditors does not forget that it is not a court of use. The reality is that the persecution of the Court of Auditors is the antithesis of the dialect. I will read you a qualified opinion on the audit report of the same Court of Auditors: "In these cases, there does not seem to be any over-restriction of the external action carried out by the Government of Catalonia in relation to the area of competence which corresponds to it. It is a textual quotation of the particular vote issued by a councillor of the same Court of Auditors, a hugely unusual fact that sets out the legal lierie before which we find ourselves. I give you three examples. Some of the government's delegates are presumed to have assumed accounting responsibility for organizing the 9-N consultation in their respective delegations, when the delegations did not exist because they were created during the year 2015. An example: there are people who are being judged simultaneously in other different courts for the same facts. A third example, if that's not enough: the court has as its reference press details to assess whether the cost of a trip is to be returned or not. I could go into more detail about the fact that the court regrets that the generality does something as basic as you will argue about external action. Since I was appointed External Action Advisor and Governor Obert, I have talked about the long-term will of a country's external action. This goes on to design a solid international strategy that can be durable over time. Foreign action is not a government policy, it is a country policy, I will not tire of saying it. From the government we work to build more and better political, economic, cultural and social relations with third countries and regions. In order to do this, we need to be on hold of the world and, in particular, of Europe. The Member is also right to say that the task of the exile has been an important source of victories, as well as an irreplaceable pillar of the strategy of internationalization of Catalan claims. From this chamber I would also like to condemn that President Puigdemont, an internationally recognized public figure, and that he is motivated by constant attacks and threats, is denied the right to have escorts that guarantee his safety. All my support also to Sergeant Escola and Councilman Buch. I want to talk about the importance of the international strategy of the Generality. The intensification of Catalonia's international strategy has had a clear impact on our economy. Since the year 2003 there has been an increase of 60_percent of the number of foreign companies holding their own in Catalonia. 2020 the Generalitat captured 480_millions in foreign investment, the highest xifra since 2008. To make it even more graphic, I mean that for every euro that the Generality has earmarked for the foreign investment attraction, a return of EUR 144_ has been obtained. The external action of the Generalitat, with these numbers, there is no doubt that it helps to improve the living conditions of our citizens. And I will not tire of repeating that our world is the world and that, therefore, we will not give up also being part of the world's rearing and working the world's rear. I end up with a phrase which is not mine, which is Gandhi's, but which I would like, it seems appropriate to close my intervention, which is the following: "The virtue has its usefulness; cowardice, no. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-16-0801.295.0	Then has the word Deputy Josep... won't he use the word? [[Pause.]] Okay. So then we'll raise the session till tomorrow morning.
