ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.1.0	Very nice late. Let's start this plenary session. And I'd like to start with a reflection. Those days have got the summit in Glasgow against the climate change. It is obvious that we are living in difficult times, with a health crisis, with an economic crisis, in Catalonia too, a democratic crisis, but we also need to pay attention to this crisis, which is global and affects our future and even our own survival. Surely, too often the citizenry has the perception that the policies go late and barely at the time of making decisions that are useful and brave and that favor this fight against climate emergence. I invite, therefore, all parliamentary groups of this chamber to act with the utmost diligence, rigour and efficiency to pose..., or contribute to reshaping this great threat to our planet. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Also, sadly, before I begin today's order, I must inform you of a new victim of general rape. According to the official data of the Department of Interior, on October 31st, Maria Isabel was murdered at the locality of Ripoll. And on behalf of the chamber I deplore and condemn this crime and reiterate Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women and to age for its record. We transfer all the support of the Parliament of Catalonia to the victim's family and friends. As you know, in accordance with Parliament's duel protocol against male rape, which was approved by the Working Group on Gender Equity, this presidency will call a minute of silence this late, when the suspension of the session is produced and before the constitution of the commissions that are scheduled for today, before the facade of the Palau del Parlament. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] I also inform you that, in compliments to what is established by the Movement 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of 2021 there are a total of 1,559 victims, dead or missing persons in the Mediterranean. Finally, the list of questions to be answered orally in the plenary is included in the plenary file, and, in accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules, they will be replaced tomorrow morning as the first item on the agenda of this plenary session. [[Interview with the Government on planned policies to address the consequences of climate change and the energy crisis]] [[300-00064/13]] Let us therefore turn to the next item on the agenda, which will be the question to the Government on the policies planned to face the consequences of climate change and the energy crisis, presented for the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle to Win. You have the word to make the presentation of the inquiry the deputy Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.2.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor, deputies and deputies. This question to the Government about policies planned to address the consequences of the climate change and the energy crisis, therefore, the fact to you, adviser to the Department of Climate Action, but they understand that the issue that we will explain, that we will expose to the length of this intervention is cross-cutting and affects all the councils of this Government, and therefore we also take advantage to question the respective president, who told us that he would work to make this legislature a green republic. It will advise, we find ourselves in front of the greater repte of this 21st century, a repte complicatedsim, that we are not clear how we will overcome as humanity a crisis of the climate as it is carrying us and will inevitably bring us to an end of the century with temperatures much higher than the current, coming to exceed the four degrees of average increase already respecting the proper principles of the industrial revolution – we talk about already a few years ago. That would be equivalent, so... this temperature change would be equivalent to the greater variation in temperatures that has passed since a million years ago. Today this variation is already 1.2 degrees. But you have to consider where we live. We live in the Mediterranean, we live in the Catalan Countries, and the impact of climate change is much higher, therefore, than the world average; in fact, a higher twenty_per_cent. And that's not what we say, but the independent network of experts in climate and environmental change in the Mediterranean, which, among others, counts on the support of the Union for the Mediterranean or the same UN, the French State and the own Generality of Catalonia. All the reports clearly indicate to us that our country will greatly recover the consequences of this climate change. And clear examples we will see, for example, on the coast, where we will see the disappearance or massive retreat of platges, such as the golf course of Roses, the own coast of the area of Barcelona or the coast of Tarragona. But we're still in time – not at all – we're in time to reverse this change minimally; not to shut it down. And we're in time because the consequences to different cities will be different depending on whether we're already managing with the contamination and emissions of gases or we're following for the same emission path as we're currently doing. Again we are warned, another time; it is at our hands, therefore, decide the way to take: or mitigate or stuff. Well, we can't go, and keeping what we've got now is obvious that with everything we've provoked, it can't be like this. We will also see in the Pyrenees an important change: before 2050, it is to say, from now on to 2050, we will see how the half of the snow we have disappears. The deltas, like that of the Hebrew, but also the waterholes of the Empordad, we will see them disappear. We are living and living a drastic reduction in our country's biodiversity. The seventy-five percent of the species are already in danger. In fact, the State of Nature report to Catalonia 2020, a first assessment of biodiversity based on the best scientific evidence, tells us that Catalonia has seen a progressive and widespread decline in its biodiversity. In the document, in fact, it sees how the populations of both vertebrates and invertebrates on which they have long-term follow-up data have lost a_of_each_four individuals, i.e., a twenty-i-five_per_cent, in later years. We can also talk about precipitation: a loss of forty per cent is expected in the summer, in middle of the century. Catalonia could have a more summer from here to 2050, if it is complete, so the forecasts – that we do not do, but that does the Meteocat. In fact, the organism has presented a study that analyzes the possible climate scenes in the next thirty years and still indicates that the temperature will rise to three degrees minimum, temperature, to our territories; that the periods of even and increase the days without rain will abound, and the later each time will be warmer..., it will be even eclipsed by the near summer. Of the food system we are not talking about, currently the food sovereignty is calculated to be forty per cent in the respective territories, but now we see as with the climate change to the own lands, for example in Tarragona, forty-two per cent of the soil is in danger difficult to deteriorate, it is to say that desertion begins. But it's not just Tarragona, but this will also, to a lesser extent, go to Girona and Lleida. We also see how it affects the most populated areas of the country..., the corridor of Baix Llobregat, Barcelona – with Barceloneta, the port or the Poblenou – or the Maresme, especially where there are hundreds of thousands of Catalans and Catalans, so they see disappearing all their coasts. Therefore, it is not only a problem, therefore, of the pageia or of the Pirinaeus, but we are actually before a global problem. And I don't want to talk about natural disasters, as we've already had with Gloria, in the generation of 2020, that every time, therefore, they will be more extreme, more violent and increasing phenomena. And before all this disaster, what are we doing in Catalonia? So, in our view, we continue to follow a fossil power that looks too far at another side of this severe climate crisis. How can it be, Counselor, that it is not calculated the ecological fart since 2003, divided years without which it is calculated? But 2017 we approved the law of the Catalan climate change, which was not enough for us. In fact, you expect 40 percent of gas to be reduced by 2030 only when we understand that we should go to 50 percent, as they say to Europe. And here we have to add the disgrace of the Spanish climate law, which already contemplates a much smaller reduction, of a twenty-three per cent of CO2, by 2030, right? A new scandal. But, well, there is nothing going on here and the European directives are not complete whenever they are needed. And from the law of climate change, we see that taxes on big economic activities and ships are not coming. Nor do we see, therefore, the assumptions of carbon, which we should have held here by the end of 2020. Let us hope, therefore, that now, this very year, we have them on the table, because it is very important to define the amount of emissions that each economic sector will be able to have for a certain period of time. And while we don't do that, we do have big businesses... – I will talk about the fifteen largest, those we have asked to appear in the Climate Action Commission from here in Parliament –, they are great oil tankers, cementers, chemicals, energy, etc., that continue to make negotiations destroying the climate. These fifteen contaminant companies hold the title of almost one_of_each_four tones of CO2 equivalent of the total issued in Catalonia, for example, the year 2019. In fact, the five most polluting companies in the country emit over the quota of emissions they hold, but they are not just the five, of the fifteen largest in Catalonia – the most polluting –, twelve incomplete. It's a disturbing fact that you're telling us that here you're standing still and acting by the environmental public authority. At the same time, therefore, we see a decree of renewables which, in our view, is short. Yes, there are better in the decree, but not substantial. For us, then, we had the opportunity to create a democratic and decentralized model, and we've fallen short, we've fallen short with this change. Nor do we see the European foundations of the Next Generation. We had a new opportunity before and let it go, because we do not see in place initiatives of gas mitigation, initiatives of coastal protection or of real green industrialization beyond the massive electrification of cars, which we consider unworkable because of the scarcity of rare minerals that we are already beginning to have in the current. Counselor, it is not a question of individual wills, but of public regulation in favor of the common good. Given this impact on our country, what proposals does the government make to us or the parties that form part of the government? They propose to us, therefore, the expansion of the airport, the port of Barcelona, the port of Tarragona or, finally, the celebration of the Olympic Games; the same logical developmentist, "developmentist, as I would say, the fossil of capitalism forever. Dependence, again, of the country, of the tourist sector..., and to be the spa of Europe. And we cannot defend this green republic in any case. We are here, therefore, to propose alternatives and to really believe that this climate change is affecting us – and a lot – and will affect our own generations, but not at the end of the century, only in a matter of thirty or forty years, and less, at last, with the accelerated pace that we have taken. And now, therefore, we have to make bold decisions just as the President of Parliament did at the beginning. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.3.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now the words of the Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda, Mrs Teresa Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.4.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it's very late for everyone and everyone. Deputy Cornellà, let's start with a cipher that responds, sense dubte, to the duality that he planted. Well, in fact, it didn't pose a duality, it raised it a lot in general, but in any case, I think that in this inquiry about climate action, also about energy crisis, it's welcome, that's the 70-two xifra. Seventy-two is the percentage of winter-effect gases in our country that relate to energy. And that's what you're going to tell us? So that energy transformation, a sense of doubt, is extremely necessary and, in fact, deixi'mdir also, the only way to act or one of the only ways to act before climate emergence. Because like the government, but as well as society, we have to be very aware that climate emergence – and you said it – is the front of the century. It's a challenge that has humanity before, but since it can't be any other way, Catalonia doesn't escape. I, therefore, need to act now. We need to act now because so far we haven't done enough – and so have you. Actually, we haven't done enough. Unfortunately, despite reports that we've been alerted since the beginnings of the '70s, huh? We need to act now because we have a climate change law – which you have also made reference to – that this country approved, that this Parliament approved the year 2017. But above all, we must act with great diligence to become a completely decarbonized, energetically democratic country, inclusive and, at the same time, also distributed by the year 2050. And it's in this sense, and now he's already pulled out, so COP26, Glasgow's summit, we're either supposed to be able to do whatever it is he's really feeling. And to be, obviously, as it cannot be otherwise, valiant to give sense also to this green transformation to which this government and this country aspires. You also have to say that Catalonia completes the European targets for greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. That's what we can say, huh? A first estimate from the department points to a reduction in emissions of more than dotze_per_cent compared to 2019, by thirty-three_per_cent per cent under the values of the year 2005 and, for the first time, below the levels we had in our country in the year 1990. As you know, the year 2020 is the year for which the European Union set some energy targets and also some climate targets known as 20-20-20, which were to reduce global emissions of greenhouse gases by a 20_per_cent compared to 90, increase the proportion of renewables by a 20_per_cent and improve energy efficiency in the same percentage. It is obvious that, from all sides, we must press the accelerator, without any doubt, is in the use of renewables. This energetic transition that we are obliged to make, but – and you certainly share it with me – we cannot do it in any way. It's true that we've come from a few years of upturn, upturned in the dryness of renewable energies, and that who's rushing us now, one way or another, so that's who's been stopping us, too, huh? Despite the emergence, we have the absolute certainty that we do not only want to change resources, that we also want to change, and in this we are concentrated and in this we are decided, the model. And that there's no winning the usual, these businesses that you were talking about. To develop a good model based on renewable energies we need to know who they are and who they are the needs of the country we want; who is the model of the country we want. And that's why we want an energetic transition that is basically fostered by the following model: for us it is vital that it is distributed, meaning no doubt; that it is done with territorial cohesion – we can't do it to the territory – and, lastly, that it is democratic, and above all, because now we have the opportunity, that it is participated in. We can't repeat what happened to the hydroelectric power plants in the Pyrenees, can we? , people where their fertile lands were at that moment absolutely denied water, absolutely flooded, and where they did not get electricity just until more than two decades later, concretely twenty-three years after the arrival of electricity to the great capital, which arrived in Barcelona. We don't want centers either, we don't want macro-producer centers that cause energy to be distributed in high-voltage lines, and that's why it has to be imposed, to make sense, this model, huh? : a distributed model, a transformator model of the economy and society. In short, we want a sustainable energy model, respectful and granted with the territory. We also said it days ago with President Aragonès: it is as important as how, and the step towards a sustainable energy model must be accompanied by a democratization of the energy model cent_per_cent renewable, cent_per_cent democratic and also close. In short, it cohesed territorially to cease to be the country of ''here and not be the country of 'this way and here too. The energy transition does not have to be a simple change in fossil and radioactive energy resources for renewable resources, which also obviously. We want to introduce a strong component of social empowerment. Now we have the opportunity and we must be able not to lose it. We therefore need a model that puts local energy communities with civic participation at the centre of electricity production. Replanting in the energy field must be total, absolutely total. We need to move towards an economy and a low-energy and low-carbon society. That's why – I come back – we went to present together with President Aragonès the full route to lead our country's energy transition fifteen days ago. This new decree approved last Tuesday was not a first step, only a first step. A full route designed, as you know, in three scenes: the year 2030 we will have to arrive at 50_percent renewables– 50_percent–; the year 2040 we will experience the shutdown of nuclear power, and the year 2050 we will have achieved neutrality in carbon emissions. And the main measures of this full route I think are also known, but we can explain them as many times as you need, because surely there will always be someone who will not have listened to them. It is to say, first of all, the creation of the network of local offices of the energy transition, a network of technicians that, in doubt, before finishing the year, this disembarkation, I dare say, therefore, we will already be located in each of the coffers to give support to the municipality. This is very important to us. We have to do this with our people and our cities, and we also have to ask for resources and we have to make it easy, and when we say human and monetary resources. Secondly, the adoption of the sectoral territorial plan for renewable energies in our country. You've talked about it, and it's extremely important. It must be that document that helps us plan the energy infrastructure that the country needs and that will be approved for the government by the year 23, as soon as possible. We were delighted, we were pleased that this planning was already done, but it wasn't like that. You know that, too. We consider it an opportunity. It will be the first platform to emerge from the municipal debate, with the presence of all actors in the region. And when all the actors say I'm referring to environmental energy actors, governance, and also to two-way. Thirdly – you also spoke about the law of climate change, which adopted the foundations of the energy transition law – so what we will bring will be the energy transition law, and here all of you, all of you, all of you, Members, will obviously come into play. Fourthly, we will boost Catalonia's bioenergy strategy – very important – and here we will relate it to the country's bioeconomy strategy, also to take advantage of biomass and biogas, also for us. And in five places, the creation of public energy from the Administration, to be able to focus from the Administration on the energy sector, to be able to define and not only define, but also, so important, plan. We don't want a simple marketer. We want to go a lot more there. We need this energy production and energy management, and we need it to be produced above all in those proximity areas where the big energy promoters are not interested, and that means public buildings, public infrastructure, roadways, reservoirs, canals and a large etc. And I also get into public administration... - for us too very important, huh? – the public management of hydroelectric power stations, of which the concessions lapsed. In short, if we don't do it, they'll do it to us, all folded up. And you know how they always do, don't you? We can't fall into the hands of the big oligopolis and we have to take away this extractive model that only looks for good. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then, in the turn of the line, has the word the deputy Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.6.0	Thank you, President. He'll advise, well, we're not saying "not here and not here, we're saying "here and always. They're not the negators, they're the ones who see, so that's not happening, that the climate change isn't real, that we're not living a transformation that's going to leave our country and all the world you can narrate. These are the ones with the no. We are the ones of yes, well done, planned and agreed with the territory. Also tell him that in the time of President Torra and Councillor Calvet was, as you know, the first Catalan Climate Action Summit, with some results, therefore, imperceptible for a climate balance of the country, is to say that really by mass it did not serve. But at least he made a first attempt at the summit, so our country to talk about it and talk about caresses among all of us. But time goes by and time goes by; we still don't have a plan to mitigate emissions or a plan to adapt to the coast, the Pyrenees, agriculture or anything else. And time went by, and, as you see, things got worse, there's nothing better. Nor has the city assembly been created for the climate, promised for you, counsel, for the first hundred days of government, and these believe that they have already passed and yet we do not have it here, even if there is the will to do it, we are not convinced. Nor, in order not to have, so..., the Government did not bother to update the third report on climate change in Catalonia, which was done, the past, 2016; it has already been five years and neither has this report been renewed, which had been done before times – it was the third report. He will advise, when we hear this hoarding of the head under the wing seems closer to the routine of the autonomic governments that precede us than, therefore, the present moment we live in, right? The blind bet for the public-private partnership with these big extractive companies that..., so that governments would have to defend the general interest but end up being partners, right? , fossil lobbying, e.g. energy, electrical or voltorous foundations. And is that what a republic is? Is that how they want to make a green republic? Can't these businesses touch the yes they can touch? Do we already have to start touching them and denouncing, as we have done many times before, therefore, the connivance with certain political parties, for their rotating doors and the placement of political bodies once leave politics? And the most important issue: what will Catalonia live from here to 2050 if the beaches disappear, if the snow disappears, if everything is submerged on our coast, or if it is partially the Prat airport and the ports of Barcelona and Tarragona? Which alternatives are working before this energy crisis, climate crisis, so, what are we living, this crisis exists? What is clear is that we can't continue with the same model as in the current and make it see that it doesn't happen; we can't continue with the tourism monoculture, with logistics, because this doesn't have any viability in the very near future. Catalunya has to be, will be climate friendly or not will be. Counselor, this should interest you as much as all of the country's citizens. There's a young generation waiting and it's worth having the future and keeping it here in our country and not having to leave. As you have already said, put the tools to decarbonize at least fifty-five percent of the emissions before 2030, which is what the Council of Europe tells us. We do not agree that until 2020 we have completed the objectives; they were very small, very small. Those of us who propose to you are important and country objectives; they are objectives in which to set aside already an extensive civic alliance to protect our people from an announced threat. And not because we say it; I have made many reports here, but also international reports, made by experts, and not dubious of being of the CUP, but of being experts at the world level and recognized, that tell us all exactly the same and tell us in all formats, because they always tell us the lowest forecasts, not the highest ones. Imagine 'the catastrophe you see. Do we share these priorities for Catalonia? Let us hope that we do, and that we do, therefore, urgently. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.7.0	And finally, in the turn of the line, has the word Teresa Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.8.0	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Cornellà. According to many of the things that you have exposed in this, too, second intervention. Beyond the fact that the experts are suspected of being from the People's Union or the Republican Left or the Socialist Party, this is the same, the data must be rigorous, and that is where we must focus, with a sense of doubt, all of us. You said that, too, didn't you? The fight against climate change means we've already lost it, we've lost it as humanity. We've already lost this fight. Don't fight the climate change. Now what we have to do is adapt and mitigate it as much as possible, and we are absolutely concerned about this. There will be no lack of courage in this government; I assure you that there will be no lack of courage on the part of the council that I have the honour to encapsulate. Undoubtedly, the climate change is the challenge..., not just the most important environmental challenge of today's humanity – you pointed it out to the principle – it's the challenge; there's only this, it's the challenge, because it includes it in a transversal way absolutely, absolutely everything. Let's leave him a pair of acclaims respect some of the information you've donated that there's no mass of agreement, huh? One I absolutely share, which is that the objectives must be, in a sense of doubt, ambitious. We'll also see that out of this COP26, but we obviously have to embrace them all. The goal of reducing winter-effect gases, for us is also the same amount of gas as you, huh? , which is this fifty-five percent. In no case will we be left with forty, much so that 2020 obviously complies with the parameters. Conscious of the loss of biodiversity – we will talk about it on any other occasion also in this hemisphere, because this obviously goes through the law of biodiversity, which will not now give me time to talk about it – also aware of the decrease in plugs, the increase in temperature, the same, etcetera. We're all concerned. Let me tell him, too, that the city climate assembly is about the first things I did, not the first hundred days, but I'm going to say the first two, and we're working with all of them. It's a theme, as you know, complex, and what we're not going to do is "it's okay, huh? We want to do this right, we want it to be an effective participation and with a working group we are working with all those who carry the initiative. It's like we're gonna get out of this, and I assure you, it's gonna be okay, it's gonna be okay. The emissions tax, which you also talked to me about. The CO2 emissions tax on the vehicles is already being recaptured. The summary shall correspond to the financial year 2020. It is estimated at about EUR 66_million, and in the 22nd year this will be higher, for which it is foreseen, than 160_million euros, until, in the 20th year, being the first year, therefore, the tax types will be smaller. The Climate Fun – which he also spoke about – is a nodreix in fifty_per_cent of the recapturing of the tax on CO2 emissions from vehicles. The Climate Fund Commission, provided for in Decree 33/2020 of 18 February, establishes the functioning of the Climate Fund, which was already the April 21 and has already agreed a set of projects, by import of 8_million euros, that could be eligible for funding of the fund. The Natural Heritage Fund is also the nodreix of the other fifty_per_cent of the CO2 emissions tax collection for vehicles, as you also know perfectly. The tax of the harbour emissions of great ships – you have also not spoken – so there is the compromise, obviously, to present it in this Parliament just this year, huh? , in the law of measures, to apply already the coming year. I mean, I repeat it, courage, sense of doubt, we won't miss it. He also spoke of agriculture, in a quick way, because he didn't give for more. Here too the agri-environmental aid which is included in the RDP for our country is set up to promote, therefore, agricultural practices which will contribute to the protection and improvement of the environment and of natural resources, of soil, in short, and of genetic diversity, as well as for the mitigation of climate change. They'll remember, too, that we've already presented the preliminary memo to the government, and I've talked about it on some occasion, respecting sustainable agricultural production, which here is one of the..., they'll see it as well when we present it as the law, very advanced and of which we feel very proud, because two or three years ago we worked there. That is to say, extremely concerned about what you are proposing to us. Also thank him for this inquiry. The climate change, sense of doubt, is the challenge. Let's go, too, before we finish..., talked about the Next Generation, the twenty-seven projects that the government somehow overtook as important and red in the past legislature. I can assure you that the vast majority, not to mention everyone, also have to see, as it cannot otherwise be, or are involved in this umbrella of this important spot that we have as the society of the 21st century. Let's get our hands on a lot of joint work. We will not do this alone; we must do it not only as the government, but we must all do it with the country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.9.0	Let us turn to the eighth item of the agenda, the question to the Government on social policies, presented by the Parliamentary Group of VOX. [[Question to the Government on social policies]] [[300-00057/13]] You have the word to make the presentation of the inquiry the deputy María Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.10.0	Well, thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, from VOX we would like to start this speech by conveying a message of responsibility, concern and empathy to the families and people in Catalonia who are immersed in a real social emergency and who deserve our utmost attention and legislative priority. The object of this inquiry is nothing other than to put on the table the real needs of Catalans and the disastrous management in social policy of the Government of the Generalitat. I hope that it will serve them, at least, to realize the real situation in which we are and to change the course that we have unfortunately been on for years: a drifting social policy led by a group of bureaucrats who only care about separatism. Members of Parliament and members of the Government, what do you devote your working hours to? What are you doing? Are they going to continue to create rescue funds for fugitives from justice or are they going to create rescue funds for Catalan families who need it? What part of the pyramid of priorities are the real needs, the day - to - day needs of Catalans? Dostoevski said the best way to prevent a prisoner from escaping is to make sure he never knows he's in prison. In addition to turning Catalonia into a fiscal hell, you have turned the Catalan social scene into a Dostoyevski-style prison. On the one hand, they are interested in maintaining a structure of social services and benefits based on dependency and assistanceism, and client social benefits in electoral terms, which do very little for families to improve their material and social well-being. And it is that, gentlemen of the Government, you need the chronification of poverty, social exclusion and the lack of prospects to continue to govern. They live from the misery and misfortunes of people. On the other hand, we are trying to sell a happy world, a sweet social management coming from the Walt Disney factory, based on priorities away from the Catalans day by day. His own government plan says so: they want a green and feminist transformation. Tell a SEAT worker, father or mother of the family, that his plan and priority of government is the social transformation into a green, feminist and multicultural key. You'll see what they answer. Land. Less feminist versions of Els Segadors and more real defense of the land; of the land and of the citizens, of those who have not voted for them and of those who have voted for them, who are the most feeling the betrayal of their cowardice. Its social policy does not differ from the rest of the policies carried out by the Government, a policy without any positive impact on the lives of Catalans. And what are the consequences of this line of action? Look, in Catalonia there are a forty_per_cent youth unemployment, 233,000 Catalans waiting to visit with a medical specialist, 17,500 elderly waiting for a place of residence, ninety_ thousand families waiting for official protection housing and one_of_each_three Catalan children at risk of extreme poverty. According to the State Association of Directors and Managers in Social Services, Catalonia has the sad title of belonging to the group of the only three autonomous communities that still have a smaller investment in social policies than they had in 2009. Moreover, we are the last ones in per capita social spending, that is, we spend little and we spend badly. With data from Arope's report, in July this year the risk rate of poverty of social exclusion has increased 2.7 points, placing us in 26.3_percent of the population. While you spend 240_million on TV3, Lluís was one of the three people who died waiting for help from the addiction; he died on September 4, 2019 along with twenty-nine other people, who were also waiting. While you spend millions on embassies, an ALS patient waits more than two years for you to give him 715_euros a month just to feed himself. Pol's three-year-old family, affection for a rare disease, can't..., or have to eat for their children, or how to take care of it. But in the meantime, you create ransom funds for criminals. I could follow all day, but I think the message is clear; do not say that there is no money, tell the truth: say that the taxes of families are destined to superfluous spending, to political waste, as are the 1,139 public entities and 360 political and ideological bars that we have. Counsellor Cervera, tell us about the 1,000_million that the government to which you belong spends annually on your separatist project. With these 1,000_million could build ten_ thousand social housing, for Josep i Maria, sixty-and forty-five years old, living in a cashier on Entença Street; they could feed more than 277,000 children for a whole year; they could pay the pension to 65,000 retirees, the one-year rent to more than 120,000 families and the annual assistance that 2,083 ALS patients need, such as Toni, who, after four years pleading with their counselor, granted the help last April, and his wife, Yolanda, is still waiting for this help to materialize; four years and six months, counselor. It gives us the feeling that you suffer what is called analytical paralysis in the company world: you design grandiose plans, you sell smoke, empty words, and you are unable to execute anything, besides being harmful managers. The most plausible example is all your interventions, Commissioner, which we shall do, we will emphasize, we will bet and an innumerable, we will prioritise; your already famous 'castle of cards' speech. Always in the future, so it indicates that doing what is said to be done have not yet done anything, but the worst is that it seems that they will not want to do it either. Look, social protection includes all public or private initiatives that protect families and individuals, these people I have just listed, who are in a situation of social or economic exclusion, with the aim of preventing the chronification of poverty. On the other hand, the pandemic has highlighted the dire structural conditions of social policy in Catalonia. For this reason, the portfolio of services, the hierarchy of priorities and the liberation of the Council of Social Rights from the political tone must be the cardinal principles of an integral reform of his department. In this line will be the motion that we will present at the next plenary session. And finally, I want to send a direct message of hope to the Catalans who are in these most vulnerable situations: you are not alone, VOX represents a social alternative that will always be next to those who need it most, an alternative that will always put the well-being of citizens ahead of the well-being of politicians. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.11.0	Next, to answer, the social rights advisor, Mrs. Violant Cervera, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.12.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, Members and Deputies, Mrs María Elisa García... In the first place, in fact, I have prepared the intervention as well as I have known, because, of course, the title was very wide; in fact, I was talking about social services, and to social services, in fact, it is absolutely all the advice, and I have listened attentively to his inquiry to see where I could draw or where I would prefer you to explain to him, therefore, who are the concrete measures with which we are working from the Department of Social Rights, but from what has been working, from time to time, from the Department of Social Affairs or Families or from Social Welfare, it is the same... You have laid down some absolutely catastrophic data that, as you can understand, so do not share. Some of you are right: we have important waiting lists, and I did not make big speeches; in my first intervention I said that one of the objectives of this legislature would be to end these waiting lists or at least to reduce them, and I keep myself in this very disposition, and at these times we are working on the assumptions of the Generality to be able to attack all those measures that do not work at the moment, but it is not true that it does not work all. It's not true. We have a guaranteed income of citizenship that at these times is reaching more than 168,000 beneficiaries, with an import of 430_million euros. Now, if you want, I'll make up for what we're doing in our department. To begin with, tell him that it is the third department of the Generalitat with the assumption, more than 3,000_million euros; therefore, it is not a matter of chiringuitos or of anything you have raised, it is simply the third premise of the Generalitat of Catalonia, and it is true that the money we have from this assumption is surely insufficient and we also work day by day to be able to assume more, but, I insist, it is the third department with the presumption of the Generalitat. To a large extent, we have an important area, which is the area of services in which, among other services, the guaranteed income of citizens is managed, which, as I said, up to 168,000 beneficiaries with more than 430_million euros, in the band of all the remaining services and help to citizens who need it. When you talk about who are the needy of the country, it is true, we have a social emergence; social emergence as a consequence not only of the crisis that we experienced in 2008, which we have not yet passed, but of the crisis as a consequence of this pandemic. And it's true, we have to work, we have to keep working, and guaranteed citizenship income is a good way to keep doing it. We called the government commission a while ago to study and plan if we were to improve or change some of the access criteria to this income from citizenship. Other areas of the department? Everything that makes reference to addiction. I don't know if I know, but Catalonia, after Andalusia, and, in fact, we're carrying each other..., soon we'll get over them, it's the autonomous community that the most citizens have. And, of course, it's the first autonomous community with dependent citizens; more than a million people in Catalonia have some kind of dependency. From the social services what it is is to care for all these people; both people who already have a background and, therefore, are great people that really do, therefore, need resources not only for help and home care services, but also for dedicated public places..., to be able to be attached to these residencies, as well as to all people who have some type of mental illness or people who have disabilities. And here we are, and that is why we will also prioritize the resources of the Government of Catalonia for this year 2022. Another one of the tasks that we are going through during these days and in which we are working tirelessly – and the other day, therefore, answered the question also to Deputy Moreno – it is the program contract. Our basic tool of social services in Catalonia is through the program contract. Basic social services are municipal competence with the help and collaboration of the Government of Catalonia. We are working intensively to be able to sign these hundred and six contracts that the municipalities must help to end these basic services with the collaboration of the Government of Catalonia. Others of the areas we are working on, and we are also working in an untiring way, it is in all that affects young people, the DGAIA, Youth... And I must give you the reason for the problems that young people have with the search for emancipation, the search for work, but only to remind you: the Government of Catalonia, at these times, must keep between guardians and extolls more than two thousand children. Two thousand children from Catalonia who are directly protected from the Generality of Catalonia, and that is also a lot of money and a lot of expense; they are children of the Generality and we must protect them. And after the housing materials, which, as you know, this legislature belongs to the Department of Social Rights. In these habitating materials, in the band of the use of the European foundations, which must serve us, therefore, in order to be able to modify and to be able to fix these habitats with visions to the energetic efficiency, more than half of the additional assumption of the Department of the Habitatage Agency is dedicated to social loguers. Social emergence is also being attacked through social services, but it is also being attacked through housing policies, and the Generality is managing this at these times. Just a few facts that because I can get a little clearer what it's doing, and it's what it's doing between the Department of Social Rights. The Department of Social Rights, at this time, must be managing more than 7,000 invoices, more than 140,000 grant senders, more than 3,600 contracts, and that's a lot of work. It is obvious that we have waiting lists, but it is also obvious that we have waiting lists because of how social services are managed in Spain, not Catalonia, but in Spain. Many of the services that are transferred..., and I want to be an example, because it's a very significant fact, it's, for example, non-contributory pensions. Only a given to see the magnitude of the tragedy: non-contributory pensions, which at the beginning of the year 2010 we foresee of the State some 3_million euros in order to be able to manage them, the year 2020 we did not get any money and the year 2021 we got 28,000_euros; 28,000_euros in order to be able to manage all non-contributory pensions. And this is a drama of our reality as an autonomous community, that they don't let us be a state, but they don't let us be an autonomous community. And what happens to us is this, that we have tenimal competitions that are absolutely violated through the norms that are passed on to the Government of the State or that the norms that are passed on to the Parliament of Catalonia are resorted to for the State, and, moreover, the bad financing that we have at these times in the social services of Catalonia. Therefore, yes, it is a difficult reality that we try to work thanks to the help of all the public servants who work not only in the Government of Catalonia, but also in all the municipalities that serve basic social services. And in the next part of the intervention, if you want me to talk to you about some specific area, so I'll do it with a lot of taste. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.13.0	In the turn of the line, the word now has the deputy María Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.14.0	Thank you, Counsellor Cervera. You can't fight with the data, because they'll lose. They are published in the department of the Generalitat, in its department. Look, you have two problems in your department, one is funding and the other is management. We all know that you have the problem of financing the evil Spanish state. What we also know is that you are experts in avoiding responsibilities, and in the search for scapegoats and Turkish heads. I think they no longer deceive anyone, especially when the priority of one of the government's parties to negotiate state budgets has been a share of 7.5_per_cent of Catalan in Netflix. There has been no more funding in terms of social spending. And why not? Well, I'll tell you, 'cause they don't care. They don't care. Look, in terms of management, the data speaks for itself. I'll repeat them again if you like, but it's just that we could be here until tomorrow citing examples of mismanagement. Good governance is characterized by the principles of transparency, the principles of competence, efficiency and rationalization of resources, accountability and honesty, results management and accountability. You guys don't do a single one. Look, I give these two problems two solutions: redirecting material and human resources from spending and political and ideological waste to social policy issues. And the second: to deepen public-private collaboration. The first is already an imperative necessity, especially knowing the feminist and green priorities of the Government. Do you already have any contingency plans for the social emergency coming upon us in the coming months? Winter is coming, counselor, and this time it does not come alone, it comes with gas and fuel from the clouds, with prohibitive electricity prices, an inflation that gradually eats all our purchasing power, and an economic recovery that is far from what they had said it was going to be. How does your department plan to tackle these contingencies? Do you plan to pay for the heating to all these children at risk of extreme poverty? The second solution I give you is to improve the relationship with the private sector, deepening public-private collaboration. The private sector is not to cover those public shortcomings, but instead the public authorities should guarantee certain services and cover those gaps that private initiative is unable to reach. Public-private collaboration improves the transparency of processes. The implementation of public policies ensures better accountability, increases efficiency and effectiveness by internalizing responsibilities, and provides a source of innovation and improved performance for the public sector. Do you intend to bet on public-private collaboration to fill current gaps? The social challenges presented to us by the future are unquestionable, Counsellor. The Generalitat must have the best partners for its correct achievement. The specialization, experience of the private sector are fundamental to give the best results, for the solutions needed by the Generalitat de Catalunya, and especially for your department, counselor. Thank you so much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.15.0	And finally, the word has the counselor Mrs. Violant Cervera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.16.0	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Garcia, well, she's done a little more now. It refers again to the social urgency. We are fully aware of the social urgency that our country has and the difficulty that many of our citizens have, therefore, to be able to pass the day by day. And it's obvious that winter, so it won't help people, and it won't help people at the price of the light. I insist: we, as Parliament and as the country, have now had four years of a very important tool, which is the guaranteed income of citizenship, in which we believe and will continue to bet. Plus, it's an open game that doesn't have a waiting list. Therefore, all people who at these times, therefore, find themselves with some kind of difficulty, will be able to enjoy the help of the guaranteed income of citizens. I was talking about poor energy, and I also want to remind you that we as a country were also pioneers in the issue of poor energy, and at these times, thanks to the law passed in the year 2015, of housing and poor energy, and of the agreement that was signed, so, with some of the companies, the debt of families is being forgiven, up to fifty per cent of the debt of families in matters of..., in the matter of the light. Therefore, we will continue to work in this same policy as well. And on housing issues, we will also continue to work as we have done so far and in a much more intense way, if it is possible, through aid, housing aid, aid to social and emergency workers. He was talking to me... I'm the only one who can tell him is what we're going to do from now on and where we want to focus the assumptions, and that's what we're going to do the day we explain them to him, but I already told him that one of our priorities is waiting lists. It's true, the waiting lists in the law of dependence are excessive and they're too long, and we want to work to reduce them. Some of the problems are management; not management, as you speak, of chiringuitos. It's just that I don't care. Do you know what's going on? That I have so much work to do that I do what we do in our department and try to manage as well as possible how our department works. And what we have to do is solve processing problems, which we're also working on, and being able to make the change that's worth, tech, from all over the department. Another of the priorities that I have also commented on is the programme contract, because for us the priority is working together with local authorities, because they can make from nearness the best of social attention. And then, another priority, as it cannot be in any other way, will be the childhood, especially of those people, therefore, who are more disadvantaged. Therefore, we will continue to work, with the same intensity that has been made so far, improving, if possible, some of the circumstances or situations that we have encountered in the department, of long-standing issues, and I have not transferred any, such as everything that refers to all the processing and all the help. But we are very clear about the priorities of our country and the difficulties that many of our citizens face. The problem with a department like ours is that sometimes it's hard to sort between people who have trouble getting to the end of the month, people who have trouble finding a home, and people who have been on the waiting list for a while because they have some dependence, some hard dependence, and it's not that easy. The resources, unfortunately, not of the Department of Social Rights but of the Generality, are limited. Like it or not like it, the resources of the Generality, because the Generality is poorly financed, are very limited. And this is our drama. Like Catalans, we've always wanted to manage our skills, and we're proud of it, the problem is that they've been passed on to us since the state, and they've been passed on to us without resources, and that's the only reality. The resources aren't there, and we need to get them out of the resources we have. But, as the department insists, we are in a position to fix a series of shortcomings that we have and have as a society at these times, but solutions do not come one day for another. Five months ago we were in the government, having spent a summer. It's no excuse. We've worked tirelessly, and I'm sure you'll be able to see in a few months, so what's the fine work that all the Social Rights Department workers have done? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.17.0	Let's move on to the new item on the agenda: the question to the Government about the evolution of the economy, presented by the Joint Group. [[Asking the Government about the evolution of the economy]] [[300-00058/13]] She has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mrs Eva Parera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.18.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon to everyone. Good afternoon, Counselor. It's been four years since the famous law of disconnection. We have seen various celebrations commemorating the parties. Four years, I am growing from the most frivolous and irresponsible political exercise ever experienced in this Parliament. They wanted to disconnect Catalonia from Spain and the reality is that what they achieved is to disconnect Catalonia's economy. They wanted to make history, and I think they would eventually go to history for having had Catalonia at its most shameful and decadent time, politically speaking. There has been a way, hanging down, where no one has set foot in these last few years, without anyone having stopped to think and assume that at the end of the way there is a great precipice to which we go voluntarily, which does not cease to surprise. The first reaction to that desire to disconnect from Spain was taken by the citizens: they took their students, their bank accounts and transferred them to other autonomous communities outside Catalonia. In fact, the report of the Bank of Spain told us that in six months they lost 32,500_million euros; it is the equivalent of the assumption of the Generality – 32,500_million euros. The government's political action at that time brought the word « corralito to our streets; one thing I never imagined in life that I could pass to Catalonia. People spoke of "corralite in the street and took their money and created miraculous accounts to other autonomous communities. After the citizens reacted the companies, starting with the two large banking entities most representative in Catalonia: Banc Sabadell and CaixaBank. They took it and left. And after them, more than 6,600 companies left, almost all of them from IBEX. All but one, the IBEX companies. I imagine the CUP must be delighted with everything that happened. And here's where we have the biggest irresponsibility exercise, because everyone here sees that nothing's going on, because we need the enchanted CUP to be able to..., because there's an investment agreement and being able to pull assumptions forward, and because they need their deceptive voters so that they don't see the economic power where they're standing. I told you from this very rostrum that it is not true that Madrid robs us; Madrid is passing through our faces. And it does that for two reasons: one, because most of these companies that went away were moved to Madrid, and they have been able to take advantage of it, and two, because they manage there to grow up while we practice the policy of decline: more taxes, higher taxes – we are the autonomous community with the highest tax burden of the whole state – and give up big projects. We lost the European Medicines Agency, let go of the Four Seasons, let go of the expansion of the airport, let go of the Hermitage. It is the policy of no, established here as well as the Barcelona Assembly. And there the reality is that there you have more shares of self-government decide, therefore, to mislead them. But it's that, besides, as I said, there's no counterbalance to the capital of Catalonia, with which, well, we could pull, but that counterbalance is not there. And at the Barcelona Assembly we also have an established policy of no, picked up on a part of this government, which is the Republican Left, which is a shadow government at the Barcelona Assembly. And with this policy, then, we move forward. His priority has never been to recover everything we've lost, i.e., businesses, economy and prestige. It hasn't been like this. Its priority, and we have seen it in statements and in the electoral campaign, has been to remove the prisoners sentenced for the prison process, knowing that Moncloa has a government for which everything is for sale, even Catalonia. And so they showed us. Today, the only project they have for Catalonia is how to keep this farce of the process alive to continue in power. We saw the announcement of pardons announced at the high school, and we saw a lot of people sitting there in the front row, many of whom were applauding while their businesses were still out, because they were taken away with the laws of disconnection, and in fact, they have not yet returned. The president of Foment has acceded to the cargo promising that he would make it as a priority of his mandate to recover those companies that had left. It wasn't just that, but after this approval of the pardons, we lost 275 more businesses. Many have been the co-responsibles of their political fraud – you are not the only ones from politics –, many from civil society have not been co-responsible, look at another side or too afraid to plant face. But it seems that just a few people recovered the sign or opened their eyes. The last was the Economic Circle. The Cercle d'Economia has written a very hard letter to you, a very hard letter alerting you of the irrelevance in which you can fall Catalonia and Barcelona and of the economic decadence to which you can arrive if you do not repose it. They say, and I quote: "They have not defined a model of prosperity that the vast majority of citizens, civil society and business can share, and that their model of economic development is strongly ideological, with lack of pragmatism and which often generates confrontation. In fact, that its only requirement to approve some assumptions has been the Netflix in catalá demonstrates its disconnection with the economic reality that we are living. Today we wanted to make this inquiry because we share this point of view and because we are concerned to see how the main force of opposition here has already announced that it is willing to intersperse assumptions as if they were chrome. No matter what assumptions you have, it is only important that they are approved by Pedro Sánchez. And once again, no one worrying about Catalonia, but only for their own interests to continue maintaining power. But if we haven't had enough of the process, we've fallen into a pandemic – that's not his fault, I already know – with the government of the worst to drive it – that's his fault. Yesterday they learned that Catalonia is already in possession of the insolvencies of the companies in failed 1,400 companies; one of every three of those we have here will fail. They represent thirty per cent of the total failures to all of Spain. Start worrying about us. We want to know what they think they are doing to recover the economy in Catalonia. I will give you a clue: without political stability there is no legal certainty, and with permanent social conflict there is no confidence, and without confidence there are no investments. And if, moreover, we are Spain's most expensive autonomous community, much less yet. The first management of economic policy – not secret disclosure – is to provide it with a stable framework to develop. We want to know whether the people who are supposed to think about pursuing the policy of punishing the citizens with high taxes, or even higher taxes; whether they are thinking about pursuing anti-business and anti-growth policies; whether they are thinking about remaining trapped in dogmatic discourses with magic, or thinking about doing something useful that went much further than asking for amnesty and independence. They explain to us that with independence we would have more resources, when reality is that the public debt is shooting – there are reports that this shows – and we would be much poorer. Why do they want more resources when they've shown that they don't know what to do with them or how to manage them? Today Catalonia has increased its dependence on the State, and today more than eighty per cent of the debt to Catalonia is finance thanks to liquidity mechanisms such as the FLA. The truth is that, to want to be every time more independent of the State, the reality is that every day we spend more dependent on the State. Today by luck there are still many brave people who have decided to stay and work, to keep their businesses in Catalonia, to continue studying and training here. But if we don't pick them up and follow them off and signify them because they don't have it in Catalan or some more nonsense, they'll end up leaving. Cal realism, cal pragmatism, cal take on reality. We're not a state, we're an autonomy. And you're here to manage an autonomy, and if you have to put it as well as you know it, if you know it. And if they really want to put themselves down and do politics to reactivate the economy, they'll find us there. But they certainly do a pragmatism exercise and assume reality at once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.19.0	Then there is the words of the Councillor of Economy and History, Mr. Jaume Giró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.20.0	Madam President, Councillors, Members, Mrs Parera... Honestly, I didn't think you were going to criticize Mayor Colau's management today. Honestly, I couldn't imagine myself when you and Mr. Manuel Valls were back in Paris. [[some applause]] The mayor and the other day they didn't fail her in the plenary of the assembly. I also imagined that you, as a representative of the People's Party, were a revolutionary tactic of Lenin, and I say that because you gave the impression that you were used to embracing that Bolshevik slogan that you said: "As you barely wander things, better. It makes the impression that you would want a decomposition Catalonia. This is your wish, and you and others will feed this intimate desire to build the story of a Catalonia that you would want in decadence, a Catalonia where businesses run away unbridled and where the economy gets deeper beyond all hope of recovery. But this image that you are donating from our country does not fit the reality. You're doing politics by distorting the facts. And let me tell you that this is a disloyal way to serve the country. Madam Parera, in the next few minutes I propose to show you two things. The first, that the economic situation in Catalonia, despite all the difficulties, is not as you draw it. And, according to him, that sobriety in Catalonia has not provoked, as you would like, anything in the economy of the country. On the contrary, since the year 2010 the governments of the Generality have shown with credence their competence and responsibility in the field of the economy and their firm commitment in the field of politics. If it seems to you, let's start by talking about the stupid runaway. What do the data actually tell us? The data tells us: between 2011 and 2020 the percentage of entrepreneurs with their social partners in Catalonia over the total of the State has not changed substantially. There's no blood. Sustainedly, the dinu_per_cent of the mercantile societies are still located in Catalonia, and this proportion is maintained exactly the same, also for what it does to the enterprises of new creation. There are five companies created in the State between the genera and September of Encany created in Catalonia. And I'll still tell you something else. Miri, I don't like to compare Catalonia to Madrid. What I would like is to be able to compare Catalonia in a small way with any other European country. But let'mque, exceptionally, today aim towards Madrid, this capital or hypercapital. In net balance, Catalonia has, systematically, a net creation of mercantile societies superior to the Community of Madrid, according to data of the National Institute of Statistics. Only taking into account the first eight months of the year – the first eight months of this year – in Catalonia there are 12,322 more companies than there were on 30 December; in Madrid, in change, the balance is 11,761. The net balance of business creation is therefore favourable to Catalonia with almost six-hundred and nine enterprises. Let's talk about the sunset. It's the hardest point after the 8th financial crisis. The year 2013 Catalonia went from a tax of 22,5_per_cent of aur to a tax of 10,9 on 30 September. It is one of the lowest taxes in the whole of the State and a point per under that of Madrid, which is a sunset tax of 11.8. And this is what the Dinou_per_cent, the 19.2_per_cent, concretely, of the salaried workers of the Community of Madrid works in the public sector; 19.2 in the public sector. These days, by the way, the Socialist Party is letting go as a globe probes the possibility of decentralizing a little central administration. Do you know what example Mr. Pedro Sánchez has set of an organization that you may feel that you are not in the capital? You know what? They won't fight, please. You're not kidding. The Spanish Institute of Oceanography. (Laughter.) That, unbelievably, has its own in Madrid. Miri, Mrs. Parera, if I represent you as a Spanish party and that, therefore, my area of concern was the conjunction of the State, what I would think is not what is happening in Catalonia, but what is happening in Madrid. (Applause.) We talked about business and occupation. Now we're talking about taxes and inequality. You insist, once in a while, that the fiscal pressure in Catalonia is unsustainable and that taxes must be lowered. Its logic is that lower taxes favour consumption and spending. Miri, I've already shown Catalonia's business safety and I don't think we need to get hurt. For what it does at the expense, we also need to be calm; at the end of the second quarter, internal demand in Catalonia has increased by 20,5_per_cent, driven by the strong drive to consumption of the lllars– a twenty-i-set_per_cent– and by gross capital formation, which has increased by a dinou_per_cent. What does that mean? This means that when you go to Catalonia, you don't make them for consumption and businesses don't make them for investment, because both you and businesses have full confidence in the country's future. So good we can say the same of some members of this chamber. Madam Parera, we all know that when the People's Party claims that taxes will be lowered, what it actually claims is that taxes will be lowered to the richest. But you're always oblivious to verbalizing this second part of the sentence. If you lower the tax pressure so that there is more consumption and so increase the collection through indirect taxes, like now VAT, what is being done is a regressive tax policy, that is, against the poorest people. Dissortedly, this is the Spanish tax model, which is absolutely inefficient at the time of redistribution of income. According to the latest data from think tank Fedea, which you will know very well because you have a lot of prestige in Madrid, the current Spanish tax system only returns inequality a two_per_cent. You insist on lowering taxes, but according to all calculations, the fiscal pressure in Spain is six points lower than the euro area: a 34.8_per_cent in Spain and a 40_u_per_cent in Europe. And you know why? So why Spain has ample tax benefits, such as exceptions and deductions to great fortunes. Also for tax fraud, for the submerged economy and for non-declared foreign financing actions, such as Belize. (Whispering) You want us to lower property taxes to the higher sections of the IRPF or estates, but what they never say is how we would do in Catalonia to lower fiscal pressure and continue to reduce our levels of inequality, which are today much better than in Spain. You are very happy to serve the concept of the decadence of Catalonia to refer to the last two years of government of the Generality. It is plainly lied that the sovereignistic decade has upset the economy. In any case, it is you and others who think like you who have used and used the economy to fight independence. And they do it without scruples, without glances. On 6 October 2017, in an unprecedented move to European democracy, the Spanish government of the PP put in a hurry and a rush, a decree that facilitated the release of its social partners. A decree that in twenty-i-four hours modified the content of the law on capital companies on how to take decisions on changes to their social structure. A decree that in twenty-four hours jumped all the legal and statutory rights of drawings of thousands of shareholders of companies that had the right to comment on their social change. Despite all these challenges, I hope I have shown him that the Catalan economy is an economy with very solid foundations to face the future. I've only found one statistic at the bass, only one; in these two years, only one. You know what? The statistics that show the evolution of the number of People's Party escons in this Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.21.0	Then, in the turn of the line, has the word Mrs Eva Parera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.22.0	Thank you very much, President. To see counsel, I'm talking to you about what you're doing here, and you're using seventy percent of the intervention to explain to me what you're doing in Madrid. I don't go to Madrid. I'm here. I'm here! And my interest is what happens to Catalonia and only to Catalonia. That is why we are asking this question, because we are talking about the Catalan economy and its management to recover the Catalan economy; not about what was done in Madrid three, four or six years ago. You tell me you're surprised that I brought the bad management here to the Barcelona City Council, because I gave my vote to Colau. Don't be mistaken. Don't make a mistake at all. I didn't vote for Colau, I voted against Republican Esquerra. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Oh, no, no, no, no! Clear things. [[Some applause.]] The things are very clear, because I do confront independence. I think independence is very legitimate. You may feel independent, but I believe that independence today is a drama, a drama for Catalonia. And, therefore, I believe that independence must be left to the opposition, which is the least it can do. I with such an act. And I voted against Republican Left. Unfortunately, Esquerra Republicana has decided to support all Colau's policies. Well, then, they'll be in charge of Colau's management. That's it. I mean, they're Mr. Colau's priority partners at the meeting. I do oppose the assembly and don't give votes in favour of second policy. I'm in the twilight, owner dades. I don't make it up. I don't make it up. I am not the one who is drawing the disastrous economic situation in Catalonia, nor am I the one who is talking about economic decline, is the centre of enterprises, the centre of economics. It is the business world that has put the word « economic decline and » irrelevance of Catalonia and the city of Barcelona. And I said I agree with what they say, but I'm not the one who creates the alarm about it. It's the business fabric that's talking about decay and unreality. We're talking about running away from business. Counselor, you were in CaixaBank when CaixaBank left. Don't tell me the companies didn't leave. And as long as the companies left. And I don't know how many new businesses have been created, but this is cheating. It's that I'm the one who gives him pardons until today – there are 275 fewer companies – it's the one counting the new ones that have been created – it's clear that they've been created, it's that if you don't create a company, shut it down and let's go – but they're the ones that's been created and they've left. And we're still in negative figures. They have gone further than the pardons to bring the great reconciliation to Catalonia until today that they have not created themselves. Therefore, we must look at the figures in their conjunction. Let's look at what I've written down, because we've been talking... Oh, yeah, you're telling me that we're fine because in Catalonia, in today's skyscrapers, we're the best. Listen to me, we don't cheat on the lonely, we're the ones who fell the most. Not just by the process, it's true, we're the ones who fell the most because of the coronavirus, because the management was horrific and we were the ones who fell the most economically. So, of course, going from two to five is always simpler than going from five to nine. But it's just that we have to aspire to move from five to nine. In the valley. It's not worth putting a manual rebound effect on me for an economic growth, because then – you can sell it here, but you don't believe it when you make assumptions, because if you do, we'll have a problem. Tell me I'm defending low taxes. Yes, of course, because low taxes make it possible to clean up and eliminate the submersible economy, which is very important, and enable consumption to be reactivated and above all, ensure that those businesses that can shut down non-tank, and allow them to survive, and we can continue to charge taxes. But it's that to collect taxes today they stop charging tomorrow. And don't be fooled, we're in a doped economy. We're still with ERTE and we're still with ICO. But this will be over and it will be over soon. And when the economy is overtaken, then we'll face it with a reality that we'll put our hands in the head. And I really hope that you, in your wakes, are aware of that. I understand that they must come here to make a speech, but that at the time of embarking as these assumptions are to be, they are aware that we are with an absolutely doped economy. We don't want to talk about it in the first place. Because we would have a lot to say about how they are absolutely allocated for increments in their shares. It seems that here there is only one type of worker, but the autonomes and the peppers also exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.23.0	I, finally, has the word the Councillor of Economy and History, Mr. Jaume Giró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.24.0	Madam Parera, I've given you the cifres de l'atur, the official Spanish cifres de l'atur on September 30, I haven't made a comparison. I said to him: "Home, so much so in decadence we will not be when on September 30th the xifra of the sunset in Catalonia is 10,9. Not compared to anything, 10.9. In Madrid, 11.8; the Spanish midjana 14.6. It's not about bidding or downloading, it's about official data avui, real. I also explained why the companies left. Why? I know some companies have gone, I know very well, Mr. Parera, and I've explained why. Because there was a decree in twenty-four hours, correctness and the dictatorship that made it easier to change what the law of capital companies gave because the marxessin companies did not pass through the joint stockholders. I ask that they speak of Catalonia what they return to Catalonia. Let's go back to Catalonia. Look, I don't understand – I don't understand – that you don't applaud the fact that exports to Catalonia are recovering with an increase between generation and August of 25.7_per_cent, more than three points and a half for the growth of the state conjunction. Or that it is not happy because the quarterly increase in GDP has been 3.9 and that the forecast of GDP to close this year and what it sees is 6.4_per_cent. But there are still more things that surprise me, for example, I can not understand that while you are painting a dramatic panorama, Microsoft announced that it will create an artificial intelligence research center in Catalonia or that PepsiCo trii Barcelona to install its global digital hub, or that Amazon has planted its main hub in southern Europe, at the Prat de Llobregat. Mrs. Parera, why don't you explain to the executioner of the Danish multinational Lego, who just opened his first flagship store in all of Europe here at the Passeig de Gracia, who are laying his cart to build? Why don't you call the council of the Austrian company Kronospan to tell them that they are making a big mistake in announcing the biggest foreign investment to the Ebre Lands in the last decade? Or why not warn the foreign investors who have made Barcelona the fifth European city that captures the most technological investment and warns of the institutional dangers that our country and our capital is suffering? Well, maybe they're already doing it, so, luckily, unsuccessfully. You trust very little in institutions, people and businesses in this country. Fortunately, I have to tell you that the backup investors see it differently. A moment ago I mentioned that the Government of the State had timidly announced that it might decentralize some public body. When he listened to her dear Mrs Ayuso, he jumped out of the chair and said that the idea seemed to him to be a simplistic one and that she was there to defend the interests of the citizens of Madrid. Imagine what Mrs. Ayuso would say if the Spanish Institute of Oceanography took her every 18,000_million euros. [[Greetings.]] And I figured I'd say if every year they only execute two-thirds of the investments in infrastructures that promise them. It would please me, gentlemen of the PP, that instead of complaining so much about helping us so that the visqué citizenry better recover the resources that correspond to us. You said it twice, citing a club of 1,200 members – that it does not have a model of prosperity for Catalonia, that the government is about to bring the country to economic irrelevance and a slow but inexorable decline. This, forgive me, but it can only be the result of a slow but inexorable ignorance of what is happening in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] Or... or the will to harm the image of the country and discredit the action of an independentist government that couldn't decide some in its wake. What I know harder than anything, Mrs. Parera, is that in your apocalyptic delusion you want all the evils for Catalonia thinking that that brings you some electoral order some day. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.25.0	Let us now turn to the agenda for the Government's inquiry into the financing of local governments, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left of Catalonia. [[Asking the Government about the financing of local governments]] [[300-00061/13]] You have the word to make the presentation of the inquiry the deputy Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.26.0	Good afternoon. Bona tarta, president; bona tarta, deputies and deputies. I've got a lot of winnings to follow. [[The timer laughs.]] Thank you, Counselor Giró, for making me feel better about her, more than just good arguments and evidence. Perhaps what's going on, from every angle, was not telling me, is that someone when he talks about the decadence of Catalonia confuses and realities, as you thought, and when he talks about the decadence of Barcelona confuses a desire with a bad government, with the government's collapse Colau-Collboni-Valls, which is what they actually make decisions in this city until now. So here the complicity is clear and the future too. is the future... I am delighted that you say you act to go against Republican Left, Mrs. Parera, even though this debate we can hold to the Ple, and we have held it some time. I followed him like that. I assure you, he'll do us a favor, he'll make us stronger and he'll make us winners, I assure you. [[Greetings.]] We are talking about joints, not Barcelona, overall joints. Let's talk about basic principles, what local government means, let's talk about economy. Let's talk about more valuables. Mirin, in the middle of the European Union's joint ventures, manages roughly around, as in the middle of, 9_percent of its own GDP, its local wealth. In the Spanish State, this average is 6_per_cent, which also gives us an idea of the ability, respect and role to join our home. And this diversity of resources, explicit, is also obvious to have an impact on quality of life, urban quality, etcetera, an impact on citizens and their rights. Certainly there is enough, certainly, with a stroll through our troubled geography – the Catalan, I am saying – to see how far we have fallen into an almost obligatory section of this geography and of these territories. Without the right resources, the gatherings have often taken hands and hands to meet their needs, and this has often involved the impulse and construction of much more than it would have been, huh? Build the entrance arches, but later empty them and, in any case, require to return there, to build, with a vicious circle. The infamous memory of the real estate cylinder has much to do with the reforms of the PP and Aznar, precisely a very clear way of putting the joints in the hands of the real estate developers. And, besides, if we add an avid bank, let's say, to get massive mortgage contracts, we already have all the elements to set up the perfect storm, which actually arrived, unstoppable, and which left scars that still remain very clear. Now the Constitutional Court has suspended another important municipal tax, the increase in the value of land. It's an import... let's get this straight, huh? , we are not talking about capricious taxation or recaptancy. It is a tax that serves to return to the common, to the general interest, part of the benefits that the own Administration has generated with its work, with its urban action. Certainly, the formula of calculation of this tax was not acceptable, it was not, let us say it clearly. And after the tip of the bottle, still assuming that the prices of the soil and the habitating always rise, it's obvious that it's not a waste, that it's not acceptable either. Now, let's be clear: the government of the state knew this, there were feelings and there were institutional plans, there was the view of the assemblies that announced it and warned it. The government of the State knew and had been repeatedly warned. And what did he do? As usual, res, huh? What he did is let the situation be possible until we get where we are, as we all know. That's to say, with a few joints that can't last long to liquidate their tax, much as this continues to be in force, and it's the top of the paradoxes of local government, isn't it? That things could be done in another way makes it more obvious even in the case of the outlaws of the Basque Country, that they did, they updated the method of calculation of this tax in 2017 – four years ago – and that today, naturally, they are not affected by this same decision. It's clear that those deputies have legislative capacity, competition and own taxation, huh? Are they ringing? The meetings for the Spanish State are not the main concern, and I fear neither the second nor the third. It is only necessary to remember the scene that was produced in the European context with the crisis in the euro area. The Spanish State took the margin of deficit in which the European institutions coincided, it remained..., public expenditure at 58 states; Central Administration, 31, Autonomous Communities, and 10 joint ventures. So, what margin of deficit was left to the central administration? Eighty-nine_per_cent, naturally. in the local investments zero_per_cent, and that, yes, they trusted that they were able to generate surpluses that after, certainly, at the time of the exit, when the stability pact was suspended, they tried to confiscate to stay in the same administration. Finally, some prevented it, with mobilization, with pressure, and also with certain legislative majorities in the Spanish Parliament, in the Congress of Deputies. We do not refer here and now to the fevers arising from autonomous financing and all its effects which they know perfectly well, and which the Councillor Giró has just reminded us, but in any case let us make it clear: when a majority of this chamber defends that independence is the only way out, it is neither a whim nor a matter of different identities. It is the natural result of seeing, of living, of finding that we live in a state that is not able to face up to the structural reforms that fall, nor that of justice – an example – that of the tax system, that of the territorial organization, that of the local government. All the reforms that the State does not want to make are those that Catalonia hopes to make, having the capacity, the decision, the freedom, the total autonomy, that is, the independence. We won't resign – and you know it –, we won't claude, will we? And we won't let them fight, either, because in the day to day, today, in the meantime, things we get used to wandering every second. We do not resign ourselves to this, and for this reason today we demand an urgent solution also for this dramatic situation for the assemblies, which implies the decision taken by the Constitutional around the imposition of the increase in the value of the lands. And we demand that the government of the state, the one that caused the problem, solve it and solve it immediately. It is a matter of dealing with the direct injuries that are occurring today, and tomorrow, and yesterday, and the week that it sees, in these, not just those of the year it sees, not just those of its own exercise. In the 2019 data, the Catalan joints settled €590_million of this tax, 2,766 of the state's joint. And in some cases, in many cases, these entries meant prop, or more than the deu_per_cent of the total joint entries. Therefore, its maintenance is not just a problem of financial sufficiency, it is a problem of fiscal justice, it is a problem of institutional respect. It is a question of respecting the obligation of local administrations to attend to the basic services in the front row, with the maximum proximity they have to lend. I repeat that it is a matter of benefits arising from the public action of the same assemblies, not from anyone's whim. In fact, how long has the reform of the local administration been under way? How many times have we said it and repeated it? Local finance law, local rule base law, etc. The records, the assemblies are governments, not strictly administrations, the assemblies must have..., must be able to count with sufficient resources to decide how they want to govern their city, how they want to grow, what level of services they need to provide, what quality they require from the entrances they have. And all this, at this point, is literally impossible. In view of this situation, therefore, it corresponds to the State acting, and it also corresponds to us acting with institutional responsibility, together with the Government of Catalonia, and that is why I am addressing you at this end, to say that we are at a time, from this point of view, of deep crisis, which deeply affects the local economy, and that we are still, while remaining, that the Government of the State has not yet reacted, yet has not said anything, yet has not designated as far as it has said, formulated a more or less intention, I do not know to what extent, in fact, to act and to react, but we know, in any case, that the two conditions, the permissiveness for progressive transformation and the compassion of the local authority alone, the first factor of the government has assumed. So I propose to him, ask him, advise him, what we can do together, folds, Government of Generality, Government of Catalonia and assemblies, all the assemblies of Catalonia, to defend our rights, to defend the citizens of this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.27.0	Next, the President's Counsellor has the word, Mrs. Laura Vilagrà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.28.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. Well, first of all, let us say that we see with great concern this feeling that makes reference..., this change that will have to be made from the tax on the increase in the value of land of urban nature that affects the line of flotation of the financing of the locals, at a time when they are setting up their assumptions, or perhaps they were already in the process of approving them, and of course, they already had the fiscal ordinances approved for the year 2022. Therefore, they have approved and established the base of the entrances of the joints for the coming year and also, obviously, of the expense. The fact is that the Constitutional Court resolved, on the 26th of October, this question of unconstitutionality that promoted the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the High Court of Justice of Andalusia, Ceuta and Melilla, and that it has declared null and void various articles of this law regulating local heirs. This sentence, in fact, counted, counted, with the vote against the president and also two magistrates, but in any case, annulled the various articles because they set out an objective method of determining the taxable base of this tax, of the increase in the value of land of urban nature, which determines that there must always be an increase in the value of land during the period of taxation, regardless of whether this actually existed, this increase existed. The judgment states that this decision does not affect the firm situations that existed before the date of the judgment, fortunately, I would say. This ruling of the Constitutional Court, in fact, has a hard impact on local estates, since this tax – which, in fact, popularly, in a more valuable way – constitutes – together with the tax of immobile assets, the IBI – one of the main sources of financing of local premises. Clearly, the state government has taken care of it. She wasn't quick to solve a situation that came from the moon, she was warned four years ago. And, in fact, it has been a long time for political parties and municipal associations to claim from the Spanish State that it is doing its dues and proposing to the Congress of Deputies the reform of the regulations governing this tax. And, in this sense, we find it very difficult that the governments of the State have faced a subject that for local financing is a responsibility and has to wait for a ruling from the Constitutional Court to announce, correctly, that some solution will be proposed. What's that? In fact, the presses are never good advisors and we seem and we wouldn't want this to be a piece, because the local world is still patenting. The solution is to do the right things, because – as I said – it was known four years ago that it was necessary to adapt the calculation methodology of the taxable base. And, according to the information in press, the government of the state will now prepare a modification of the rule that does not incur in these unconstitutionalities in the application with a few parameters to preserve the current recaptancy to the maximum. In any case, they will not be able to apply coefficients solely linked to past years, which is what is basically done now and has been declared unconstitutional, and will have to take into account the evolution of real estate values. This formula of calculation of this tax will certainly have a negative impact on the municipal recaptancy. If we look at the imports of the past few years, the imports collected for the Catalan joints in absolute terms– in fact, said the deputy Maragall –, the year 2019 this year, in Catalonia, meant 590_million euros collected for our joints. And, if we focus on some municipalities, in Barcelona came 197_million euros; the Hospitallet, 13_millions; Sabadell, 18_millions, and, in fact, for the majority of middle and large municipalities, this percentage represents between the sixth and fifteen_percent of middle, and in some cases much more. This is the case of Castelldefels, where he fits into the disset_per_cent of his total tickets, or Malgrat de Mar, into the divide_per_cent. And we could go with various examples in this sense. Therefore, it is clear the impact of the judgment, but also, surely, of the new formula to calculate this tax will have a very negative impact on the municipal recaptancy. According to this, the municipalities most affected by related names, in this case, are the only great means. For an idea to be made, the recapitulation of the plus-value represents the six-per-cent of the municipal entrances between one thousand and two thousand; the five-per-cent between two thousand and fifty-thousand, and the six-per-cent of middle in the more than fifty-thousand. And, in any case, in the smaller ones, it is a three or four percent of the expected entries but that, obviously, for them it is a very important xifra. Therefore, they are dramatic figures for the Catalan assemblies and, whenever we go into detail, the situation gets worse, because reality, as you know, is very hard in the municipalities of Catalonia. I have hope, which is more than a wish, that the Government of the State also works to give legal certainty to municipal institutions and also to taxpayers. According to what we have of local heritages, the tax represents a percentage that, although it is limited, but that, in any case, is the second most important tax, as I said. Therefore, we are concerned for the moment that they see the assemblies of Catalonia, very concerned about the harmful effects of this feeling – but also because of the government's inaction – that they can have in the municipal halls, at a time, that, in fact, they will already explain to me how the municipalities will fit their assumptions once they have approved them or are about to do so and how they will justify the davalada in the planned investments or in the services that they offer to the citizenry. Therefore – from here we make a call – it is urgent, therefore, that the Government of the State adapts the methodology of calculation of the taxable basis so as to guarantee the legal certainty to the joints that must be settled, but also that I study the urgent lives to compensate for the loss of inputs of this feeling and that it is intended to make a permanent foundation that compensates for the loss of inputs, which, of course, will have the new method of calculation. On the other hand, this feeling again puts into evidence the need to face a reform of the financing of the premises that give answer to their needs. A reform that we have been asking for for a long time, that we demand from the State and that, unfortunately, until today has not been possible. And it is that the current financing model is based on a lack of local heritage law, on a constant decrease in state contributions – from the different legislative reforms that have taken place – and, in any case, it is a funding that has a uniform, centralist view and that in any case responds to the demands of municipalism, that come from far and far and that do not guarantee, at these times, the financial sufficiency, the good financing and the local autonomy. We agree that we also need a reform or a derogation from the law of presupposition and sustainability to finance, as well as the revision and improvement of the local financing model so that we can have all the tools to make the appropriate public policies that the assemblies need and also obviously the citizens of Catalonia need. And we can only achieve this with more fiscal autonomy and better financing. Often it has acted with paternalism in relation to the gatherings and other locals. If it is required to complete financial sustainability parameters, it is in debt or not. The control work has doubled, since the assemblies have had to give accounts, from one band, to the Union of Accounts, which is the one that has the powers, but also the state control organs and, obviously, with a very centralizing, homogenizing view and invading the powers of the Generality. And, obviously, also from the Government of the Generality, we continue to work to provide Catalan assemblies with just and stable funding to help them develop collaboratively, in many cases, with the Government of the Generality. And, in this line, we will continue to work, obviously; working to weave complicitys anywhere else, to complete the objectives that we have jointly set ourselves. And you told me what to do to work together with the municipal and generalities of Catalonia. So, obviously, the Government of Catalonia has important duties with the municipal world and we add them to the extent that you passed this legislature. And we know that we need to allocate more resources, more stable resources, to the municipal world, but we are also fully convinced that we need to repeal the parameters of the current law on financial stability and financial sustainability of the State, so that they effectively have the capacity to finance joint ventures so that they can make investments in order to develop their public policies. And we also have a change in the law of local state estates that, at this point, is unfair for what it does to local finance. And in this sense, they will always find us to make these structural changes that fit the municipal world. That's the only way we'll get out of this together. And, as we always say, the Government of the Government of Catalonia wants to be the main ally of the assemblies of this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.29.0	Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, the question to the government about the government's debt to the local world, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. [[He asked the government about the government's debt to the local world]] [[300-00062/13]] I have the word, on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mrs Marta Moreta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.30.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, MPs and MPs, I am pleased to see that the Government always proposes questioning when opposition groups have already proposed one about the government's debt pending with the assemblies. It's very funny to see it all the time in those terms. But all right, let's do it, Counselor. I'm sure on your visits... By the way, what I'm seeing today, and I'm gonna be able to talk good, huh? I'll feel good today. I am sure that, in their visits, when the different municipalities of Catalonia made, they have on more than one occasion demanded that the Generalitat carry out the outstanding debt that it has with the assemblies, with the local councils, with the deputies. And I know that, too, because I'm talking to mayors, mayors, governors, directors who are desperate on this subject and tell me they haven't spoken to you yet, but now, for the time being, nothing. So we're starting from a question, counsel, that we both know it's going on, and the generality doesn't pay the debts you have with the joints. That said, let's mix it up to find the data in the assumptions of the Generality of Catalonia, to see, to know exactly those debts that the Generality has with the joints..., it was a small job, to find these numbers, because it's all so fractional, that the search is very complicated. So today I've decided that I'm just going to focus on the pending debts that the generality has with the social services gatherings. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! She'll advise, why, when this intervention is over, she'll keep her mouth shut, because this issue is so important – so important – that even you'll still be what I gave her, huh? , with a little tension. Today, despite the fact that the issue is still about social services, the issue is about the pending debt that the Generalitat has with the assemblies. He knows that Law 12/2007, of the 11th of October, of the social services, says that the contribution of the Generality in this matter cannot be inferior in any case to the sixty-sis_per_cent of the cost of the equipment of the basic services. Stay with this figure: the sixty-sis_per_cent has to assume the Generality and the rest have to assume the joints, the district councils, the disputations and, a small part, the users. All right, let's focus on this sixty-sis_per_cent. The Generality's 2020 budget earmarked for transfers to local authorities around EUR 325_million. Of these imports, a seventy-set_per_cent correspond to the program contract. But, I mean, do you know what the cost of social services in Catalonia is to the generality, the deputies, the district councils, the assemblies, the users? So roughly around 900_million euros, roughly. Because it is clear and as the first point, counsel, the Generality is assuming 300_million euros, while the deputies, the district councils and the joints and the users do not have to assume 600_million euros, twice, just twice. In order not to get drunk with these facts that I'm explaining to you, remember that a moment ago I told you that the Generalitat has to pay sixty-six per cent of the cost of the teams of basic social services? Well, what's happening today, in general names, is that who assumes that sixty-six percent of the cost of these services are the city halls and entities. I think it's all a scandal. It is clear that the Generality is not complete with the law of social services, which precisely approved this Parliament. I would certainly not argue more, but I will continue to explain what it means that the Generality does not assume its responsibility and obligations. Come on, come on, come on, come on, First point. Second point. The latest data we have from the end of 2020..., due to joint meetings, parliamentary and regional councils– in the case– 173_million euros, end of 2020 data, in general, and I'm sure there are a lot more hours. Therefore, and knowing of these..., pardon me, of these 173_million euros left..., the Barcelona Assembly is the one that is about to collect more money, that at these times it is 47_million euros, no more or less. I will give you another example that you know well, because you recently visited your municipality. He is the mayor of Mollet del Vallès, who was recently in his municipality and visited him. The mayor of Mollet del Vallès, his assembly is about to collect from the Generalitat de Catalunya, on social services topics, 1.80.000_euros– 1.80.000_euros. And he's got a debt pending, from the rest of the services, up to three million euros. And, look, this was later replicated until it reached these 173_million euros that the Generality gave to the joints. These are scandalous facts, counsel, look where I look at them, because it is not only the one they have not paid for, but the situation in which the gatherings are found, taking into account the evil that they are living at this time with the coronavirus pandemic, and, as you know, has left some totally devastated social services. We have seen that some large assemblies have been able to allocate resources to address the increase in demand for the pandemic and have been able to contract various workers with different profiles, such as educators, psychologists, social workers. But what happened to those smaller gatherings, those that are just as overflowing, but that can't allocate resources to them? Well, so the General has left them stranded. And how come you don't fulfill your commitments, as you have to, counselor? I ask you: how should these gatherings be done? Don't lend the service, don't let the city car? No, hello? They can't do it, that's what. So I'm summarizing what I've said so far. First, the Generality does not complete with the law of social services, approved for this Parliament, which says that it has to assume sixty-six per cent of the cost of social services. And that's clear when we see that the total cost of social services is €900_million, and the joints are twice as expensive. Therefore, what is happening at this time is that it goes backwards: the assemblies assume the sixty-sis_per_cent and the Generality, the rest. Second point. The Generality gives to the joints these 173_million euros. Let's go for the third point, counselor. We made the first, the second... ; the third, because it's not lost. Let's get on the program contract. The programme contract..., gave it to the principle of my intervention that in the assumptions of 2020 the Generalitat allocated to transfers to local authorities around 325_million euros. Of this import, a seventy-set_per_cent corresponds to the program contract, i.e., about 250_million, plus or minus. The current program contract is that of the period 2016-2019; we are to 2021, already extended two years. The difference in investment between 2020 and 2021 is an increase of three per cent, three per cent, that is to say, we are talking only about 7 million euros more for the conjunction of municipalities of more than twenty thousand inhabitants. He's probably laughing if it wasn't for the gravity I've just explained to him, this reality that I was explaining that they give these 173_million euros, and you last two years that they make is to increase 7_million euros. So it's obvious that he's completely inadequate. That is why it is urgent that we sign the program contract from 2021 to 2024 at once and urgently. The local world needs a new program contract that updates the lines and strategic actions, that increases the seedlings of workers and social workers, educators and other technical profiles that are overwhelmed by the increase in demand and with a situation of great pressure that, among other things, increases the job losses in this area. What does it mean that the joints don't have this signature of the program contract? So, first, unsettled workers and workers by program contract 1 of generation 22; second, until the new program contract is signed the joints are in false pre-interventions and have to pull forward with the resources appropriate, and third, at that time the joints do not know which ones you serve will continue in 2022; those we that will implement do not know which ones will be financed, it is not known if it will be necessary to contract the new professional figures that the government has announced and that still has not done anything, and still do not know if the hour price of the SAD will increase. And I leave this point of the SAD for the second intervention, because it's so extensive that I have to explain that I feel more like the second part can end the SAD theme. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.31.0	Next, the President's Counsellor has the word, Mrs. Laura Vilagrà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.32.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor... honourable Member, I think you've been wrong about the councillor today, because, of course, you've only told me about social services. I believe he has done so to cover the great concern of municipal governments these days regarding the ruling of the Constitutional Court, and as you know, he said that it was unconstitutional as was the case with the increase in the value of urban land. But maybe he doesn't care about you. In any case, the rest of Catalonia's accompaniments, yes. This sentence meant a stream of cold water to municipal finances, already very minute to deal with the pandemic and the infra-finance they have the joints in Catalonia. And, in fact, we're going to put all the effort, all the resources we have at our disposal, on the very assumption to compensate as quickly as we can, so this loser. But in any case, it is the will of this council always to pay fast all the commitments we have with municipal governments, with everyone, with the assemblies, the councils and the rest. And in any case, tell him, and for what he does to the Presidency, that this does close to me, that the thirty-sis_per_cent of the Local Cooperation Fund is still pending, that is already approved and distributed and plans to pay this November. So I didn't feel sorry for this band. Also for what it does to the 100_million euros that we have committed to the extraordinary fund just approved in the late Ple; they are about to distribute, and therefore we will do it immediately and we will also pay it immediately. And, in any case, to say that today in the Government of today we have approved the extension of the terms of PUOSC 2020, because most of the assemblies were unable to justify, in a year of pandemic, let's say, for obvious reasons, all the investments we had planned, and therefore they have asked us for this enlargement, that we will do in an automatic way. Therefore, always the government's will is to transfer the maximum amount of resources to municipal institutions. And in this sense, to say that, yes, effectively, the Presidency has a debt with the joints, but that it is of 42.5_million euros and that it refers to themes of PUOSC, of electives, which, as you know, we pay a share..., a good part of its dedication, to extraordinary help, among others. On many occasions, we have not been able to make the payment because the assemblies, for what it is, have not been able to bring the accounts to the Union of Accounts yet, and, therefore, until they do, we cannot make the payment of these imports. But in any case, we'll do it as soon as we can. But what concerns these gatherings now is the feeling about the most valuable. In fact, as I say, we speak with many mayors, registrars, but also with municipalist entities, but also with the intervention and treasuries of the assemblies, and these days they are absolutely concerned. It is true, too, that this sentence does not affect the situations of firmness, and so the one that has recovered so far. And it would only be missing, because, if it were so, with retroactive effects, it would cause an irreparable daltaix to municipal finances. In any case, we are aware of the gravity of the consequences of the application of this feeling to the local world, and, in fact, from a long time ago, political parties, associations claimed that this collection of this tax is made. In any case, for four years the Government of the State has not been able to do so, and therefore, without wanting to use a dramatic, but decisive, to denounce and make it clear that no government of the State has been able to address a topic that, for local funding, was responsible, and they have had to wait for a ruling from the Constitutional Court. In this sense, we need to know urgently the plans and solutions of the government. We urgently need to put the definitive solution in the table to address the possibilities... or the possible consequences of this feeling. In any case, someone up to and including these days, let's say, with cynicism, said that these percentages of inputs from this most valuable tax were not so high, and, in this case, therefore, say that in the case of Catalonia 2019 it was 590_million euros. And, obviously, we are very concerned, very much, about the harmful effects of this feeling and the government's inaction, which can be held in the local hysenda, at a time when most of the assemblies either have the approved assumption or are about to approve it. And it is that the current model of financing is based on a law of local heritage that is deficient, with a constant decrease in the contributions of the State from the different legislative reforms that have been made, a financing that is the result of a uniforming vision and that obviously does not respond to the demands of the municipal world. And, in fact, if we look at the skills of the gatherings, which are determined by the law of local rule bases, the municipalities, the majority of municipalities, in fact, only have to take care of public lighting, the cemetery, the collection of waste, the road cleaning, the household supply of drinking water, the harpsichord, the access to the population nucleus or the paving of urban life. The municipalities of more than five thousand inhabitants, according to the law of local rule bases, should do some more things: public park, public library, treatment of waste. Twenty-thousand municipalities are added a few more, and fifty-thousand, more feared. It's obvious the municipalities don't do that. Or do you think the municipalities just do that? In such a way that they are enduring the state of welfare – low, otherwise band, but that we are building among all. And to this basic law is added the application of the law of presupposition and financial sustainability, which clearly limits the capacity to finance joints in a draconian way. Only now has the expense floor been touched temporarily, but, in any case, the rest of the law is still in effect. And, therefore, the State that does it is to force the assemblies that during the economic crisis, so, finally, it is as much as it is in debt as it is otherwise, to apply strictly all the parameters of the law of sustainability will finance... And, therefore, this was a management..., this meant a busy and old-fashioned management of what is the management of public finances. In fact, the tax rule that limited, therefore, the expense floor is currently being suspended. But, in any case, the fact is that the assemblies have been able to make use of their Romans while this suspension lasts – and this is obviously good news, it has been very good news for the assemblies – but the centrality of the State has continued, it has obviously complicated the financial management of the assemblies, which have been forced to double the fiscal, economic and accounting reporting obligations of the assemblies. Therefore, the Generality's competitions have been introduced, since the Generality already controls the finances of the joint ventures through the Union of Accounts. And the State, for another band, continues to show a mistrust and a clear incompetence in the question, therefore, of financial control. As an example, the joint ventures must double the general assumption, the liquidations of the assumptions, the information of debt, other economic information and financed both to the Union of Accounts and to the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration, by means of different information systems, and this is true of public finances. This, together with other quarterly and annual information to be sent to the ministry, involves heavy workloads on these small gatherings, where staff are insufficient, with the result of the col·lapse administered and obviously not fulfilling the principles of efficiency and effectiveness. And that does harm the Catalan communities – and the rest of the state, obviously – and that does harm the efficiency of municipal management. And that does harm the good work that the assemblies do for the long term those public policies that resolve the life of the citizenry and improve the life of the citizenry of Catalonia and the rest of the State. Therefore, if you really want to help the Catalan assemblies, make your party and your government modify these parameters of these laws that I have commented to you: the law of local estates, which determines the structure of the financing of all the joints of the State, also of the Catalans, and also that it repeals this law that completely modifies the financing..., sustainability will finance joints of the whole State. Therefore, these are elements that would certainly be appreciated by all the assemblies of Catalonia, and especially the interventions of the assemblies, the three-hour meetings of the assemblies and the mayors of the Catalan assemblies, which at these times are obliged to complete a whole series of parameters that are, in the 21st century, absurd. Therefore, in this sense, what I have explained today is that it does refer to what they are concerned about at the meetings in Catalonia. Obviously, all the issues related to social services, the programme contract... is an important and long-term element; we have to make the change, the new proposal for a programme contract. For sure, the Social Rights Advisor will be able to do so in the proper months. But anyway, I don't know who I have to answer to this question. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.33.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mrs Marta Moreta's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.34.0	Counselor, do you know who's gonna raise the expense rule? A socialist assembly. Point number one. Point number two. You said to me, "Do you know who is enduring the welfare state? Do you know who's doing it? The gatherings. And I'm talking about welfare policies, social services. You have to follow all the policies related to the gatherings, and that's what I'm asking you today: the government's pending debt to the gatherings. If that's not his theme, he'll tell me who it is. I've given him an example, which is the social services. [[Some applause.]] Of course it's his theme! Of course it's his theme! I've made it easy, I've only put social workers in it. When you ask him about all the other areas, I don't know what he'll tell me. Of course it's his theme! And, percentagely, the general assumptions of the State, which are pending its approval and to which I hope that you and Together for Catalonia will support it, are the ones that will increase more, about 13.6_per_cent, the financing of the locals. So, more than that, we can't say anymore. But let us do it, Counselor, because I wouldn't want to leave everything I wanted to explain to him. For example, and continuing with social services, the debt the Generality has with social services. The deute! The deute! For example, what I said to him, that he should cover 100_percent of the socio-educational intervention services, and that he should complete the ratios. Do you know what's going on at Sabadell City Hall? I also recommend that you go one day. So the financing of this service does not go up to twenty_per_cent. Win_per_cent, advise. It's an essential service. At the Barcelona Joint Meeting, in the case of the EAIA programme contract module, it loses every year 2_million euros. I'm just talking about a waiter. I'm talking about a waiter. I remind you, in case it is not in the case, that, in concrete terms, the Generality has to assume it at cent_per_cent, not at sixty-sis_per_cent. And one of the most claimed themes for all gatherings is home help service, SAD. We need the module to be between the dinosaur and the twenty-one euros, and this increase progressively, because it cannot continue paying the 16.25 that is being paid at this time. Why? Because it is not possible to speak only of the price of the module, because the actual cost of the tender must be taken into account, and at this time, the actual cost of the tender is 17,15, when 16.25 is being paid. I insist, the Generality never finances sixty per cent of the cost of basic services, and that's a scandal. They haven't pushed this pre-warning, have they? – in fourteen years – fourteen. Just as since 2007 the rules have not been deployed, and the service card has not been updated since 2012. As if time does not pass without bill, we are not in the middle of a pandemic, the assemblies are not complicated. There's nothing going on here. Here it is not updated or done in order. It's still the State's fault. Everything. But the Generalitat never, ever, blames herself for anything. Finally, the Barcelona City Council transfers to the local authorities to finance social services, for example, EUR 25_million. The Girona Diputació, 1.2_million euros. The one by Lleida and Tarragona, 500,000_euros. They get out of the assemblies of the deputies, because if they had to talk about the Generality, they would have arranged it. Look, counselor, I only have to say to you with all frankness: you did not understand the social reality of our country when 2021 only increased the program contract by a three_per_cent. They are not aware of the task of social services or of the need to keep them sufficiently funded. If they want everyone to be equal in the opportunities of the crisis we are in, we don't need €7 million, we need at least €70 to start paying social services. And we need a new model of social service funding. Without all this, she will advise, without you paying the debts – because we are talking about the debts, I insist, of the debts that the Generalita has with the assemblies and the municipalist entities –, the country gets deeper every day and the assemblies already have the water at the col, she will advise. Come on. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.35.0	And to make the reply, the President's Counsellor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.36.0	Thank you, President. Well, I'd say it didn't work out, huh? Because when he talks about the municipalist entities, which obviously do not manage in social services, he may have confided in the regional councils, which do manage for the municipality of less than twenty thousand inhabitants. But in any case, and trying, let's say, to improve your whole, because I think it's been a little bit. I don't care, because it's a debate, the municipalist, in which I think we're very much in agreement, or many of the ones we're here agree, that we need to improve the local financing model of our assemblies. And I'll talk to her about what we want to do by the Generality and, in concrete terms, the Presidency Council, which is what's close to me; it's that I'm not talking about social services because I don't directly manage the social services of this country, but in any case, I'm sure that the Social Rights Council, as I said, takes up the issue with all the energy, because we can actually donate all the services that this country's citizens deserve. Certainly, the Government of Catalonia always explains to us that it wants to be a municipalist government, it is a municipalist government. In fact, I myself have been mayor, so many of the things I've been talking about in the first person, also for more professional themes in a district council. And the reality is that the resources of the joints are the ones that they are because they depend on the State in their main part, that's to say, it's the one that collects the eighty percent of the resources and, therefore, it's the one that distributes the resources and determines them. In this sense, in fact, there have been successive promises but in any case, they have never materialized in a financing just for the local authorities. Some gatherings– and, surely, his group too – claim us to make a law of local Catalan heritages. That, in fact, we can certainly start the debate and pull it forward, but, certainly, it's one of the challenges we have, but I won't find anything out if I tell you that we obviously have very limited skills. Actually, we tried, we tried with the State. With the State, therefore, we tried to gain skills also in the management of local finance and rolled it out, carving this possibility. And in this sense, we have a narrow, narrow, and unfair legislative framework at these times. And if we intend to legislate on this, the Constitutional will go. And we'll go there because you guys will probably bring us there yourself. And we don't apologize. In this sense, the government is working to propose a new law of local governments and we also want to address the issue of local hyshends. We go as far as we can, but I say again: prepare for disappointment if there is not a deep normalized change in the State before. And in terms of local finance, just from the Presidency, say we want to transfer more resources to the local world, and as long as we want to do it! And we want to do it with different public policies related to many fears. And I left a point, without frivolizing: I have the conviction that this is an area in which we need more tools too to help the citizenry and we need a full government, and that is why we also need to be a republic, because, if not, there are no hard ways to end all the changes we want with local finance. And we always explain that we want to have a long-term relationship with the local government with a principle that is subsidiarity, that is to say, all that can be decided from the municipalities that is not decided from Barcelona or from any of the more centralized departments. Also the principle of administrative simplification with regard to the management of grants. And, in this sense, be much more agile than we have been until now. And that's what they're demanding from us, and that's what we can do for a long time. I'm also breaking up with paternalism, and he never did. And in any case, in order to break with paternalism, to end this unjust law of sustainability will finance that the State..., therefore, that at these times the joints cannot develop all their skills and their autonomy of management. But also the principle of diversity. I mean, there's a lot of different municipalities, and so we can't treat what's different the same way. And, in this sense, we want to promote in this legislature all those tools that allow us to work for the territorial rebalancing of this country and to avoid depopulation. And, in this sense, it's also one of the schemes, it's one of the themes that the municipalities of Catalonia are calling for, that we spend more resources on balancing the territory and making people born where they were born have the same services and the same opportunities. Just like that, working with these principles, working pleas, being able to strengthen municipal governments. In this sense, he'll always find us and we'll work in this line. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.37.0	Thank you very much. [[Question to the Government on the control mechanisms of the Squadron Cos]] [[300-00063/13]] Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the inquiry to the government on the mechanisms of control of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance. He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Mr Ramon Swordler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.38.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Counselor, honourable Counselor... I would like to begin this inquiry by making a reflection that we have done more than once, you will have heard in this very House as in committee, respect the police. We believe that the police can be seen from trust or mistrust. And I would like to make an affirmation to our parliamentary group that we are looking at the police of trust. And this has many practical derivatives, if you're allowed to express yourself. And it seems to me that it's obvious – and I'll return there and I'll give you some examples, but we'll all find some – so that some of your governing partners, and I'm talking particularly about the CUP Parliamentary Group, look at the police in a way... let's face it, from distrust. They need a set of proposals from here, don't they? In a press conference on 18 October, Mrs Dolors Sabater, in her capacity as President of the Commission of Study on the Police Model, made three statements which, therefore, I believe pay the penalty we retain. He said: "The police thing brings more insecurity than security – the quote is literal; "it takes a turn of one hundred and forty degrees from the police. I, third statement: "We have to go to a truly democratic police model, of which the thing is that you don't have to consider it democratic. The problem is not that a parliamentary group has all the right to express itself in these terms, but that this parliamentary group is crucial and supports the Government. Give support to the government at the birth of the same government and – for what we see, then, we will see how it ends – also in the parliamentary process. So this has some hard consequences from our perspective, doesn't it? This visit – allow me the expression – cuparian, security and police, from mistrust, with an open point of hostility would be a little upsetting if it wasn't for this circumstance that I have expressed, right? And that's what concerns us about Socialists and Forward Units, but I think it also concerns an important part of the citizenry, concerns the own police, many other parliamentary groups and a part of the citizenry, isn't it? More if we judge it... Last week he was in commission, compared the director general, Mrs. Andolz, of Security Administration, and presented us some facts of the matter that were highly valued, the citizenry, to the police: a 7,3_per_cent on deu. And in the case that I had an argument with the police the last year, that would still go up to a 7.7. Therefore, this is the object of this inquiry..., it is threefold. First of all, knowing what is the degree of government dependence respects the CUP in terms of police and security. Secondly, a little bit of knowing where we are, let me express myself with this clarity, knowing where the Interior Department is going in police and security matters. And, in the third place and as usual, make some alternative proposals to which we are seeing and which we do not share with the Government. To make a precise composition of place, we ask ourselves to give answer to four questions. What does the agreement between Esquerra and the CUP that is at the origin of the government respect the police? What have they done until today in the compliment of this agreement? What are we worried about, what are we strongly disputing in our parliamentary group? And, exactly in the end, what do we propose, why don't we just stay in the criticism, in the protest, but we make the proposal, right? The government agreement signed between the CUP and Esquerra, in the first place divides the present legislature into two, more or less half and half. One that is by accumulation of forces to accomplish the second time it is to make a new democratic engagement. Some questions arise from this, from our perspective, and from which we wish to formulate them in your parliamentary office. We did it in committee, he didn't answer us. They'll repeat them. What is the accumulation of forces in the Interior Department? Exactly how is this accumulation of forces in the Interior Department concrete? Or more disturbing still, how is the new democratic debate since the Department of the Interior in the second good, if that's what this legislature is all about? And what exactly does it consist of? What kind of paper does the Squad's body have in this democratic debate, right? Secondly, the agreement between Esquerra and the CUP that gives birth to the Government, makes a combination of appreciations, concrete points, among which is the suppression of foam pilots, the withdrawal of private accusations against mobilizations, the approval of all police actions, the impulse of mediation from the Department of Justice, the unification of all lawyers from the Department of Interior to the central structure, ensuring that there will be no police action based on discrimination, the deployment of the police identification program and the creation of a parliamentary commission. And one says: "Where are we here? But there's still a third aspect to this agreement that raises some questions for us, isn't there? He says, "There will be a performance of public accounts, because we are lovers of transparency; perfect, we too. It is also said and the quote is literal: "There will be a more discreet accounting – this is said on page 5 of the agreement –" in which they will participate – I quote –"independent political spaces and organisations. That is to say, the half of the hemicle won't have right to this accounting or to know. That also generates some questions for me. The first, if the police's accountability will be public or will be in this more discreet environment that says the agreement; the second, if there is any hidden agenda that we don't know about this, and the third, man, what is the full route they have for the current CUP legislature, left and government to lead this engagement that is at the very origin of the government in this agreement, isn't it? What the Department of the Interior has done respects these points of agreement, man, it has done the dues – it has to be recognized, advised, it has done the dues. Commissioner on the police model? On the way, we'll set it up tomorrow. Pass the defense of the interior moves to the presidency? Fet – he already made the decree in his day. Publication of Foam Projectile Protocols? Published. Withdrawal of private charges? Girl. And I could go next. It's a degree of notoriety, isn't it? He will understand, therefore, that, in view of this efficiency, all this question that raised him from the debate concerns us, and we are concerned – in view of its efficiency in completing the agreements of the UPC – with the creation of a mechanism for controlling police and public activities with the capacity of taxation and sanction. This is what the CUP proposed, in quality – Mrs Sabater – as chairmen of this committee, and what happens to be what we will do in this committee. And, therefore, we would like to know what the government's grasp is, because it is uplifting, from our perspective. We ask ourselves and ask ourselves: do you believe – as the radicals believe – that the current mechanisms are not effective enough, the internal mechanisms of the body; do you think that the Division of Internal Affairs does not do its job well? Do you think it is necessary to outsource and, forgive me, privatize control, prosecution and sanctioning capacity over the Squad Moissons? The government thinks... does it agree with this settlement? Does it seem normal that an external – not judicial – cos de Mossos and the Department of Internal Taxation and sanction police action? It doesn't seem normal to us, we're the opposite of all this. We, as a parliamentary group, therefore believe that it is one thing to delve deeper into those aspects which are better, which obviously are not in the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, as in any organization, and one of very different is to consider that this turn of one hundred and forty degrees which was healed before the start of the legislature. In this regard, please repeat to them, tell them very clearly that you do not count on, nor do you count on us, with the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to move forward, as far as our police are concerned. Count on it all – and we've tried to prove it, and more than we'll prove it, to be independent of what your answer is – so what helps you to learn, to protect, to provide more media, to protect, in short, the Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad, right? If you think that privatizing control is a barbarity, a mistake, or it doesn't touch; if you think that the Internal Affairs Division is doing the right thing; if you think that the Squadre Mossos Cos is subject to effective democratic controls; if you trust the Squadre Mossos Cos and its self-critical and adaptable ability to a changing environment, deeply and rapidly changing, if you believe, like the vast majority of the citizenry, that the Squadre Mossos reasonably well its work, man, we propose you some questions. The first, which liberates a little of this agreement with the CUP, which liberates from this agreement with radicals, if it has to bring us this externalisation of control, if it has to lead us to put the police as a source of problems, not as a source of solution to many of the problems. We offer you our support to do so in the approval of the assumptions. Our head of file has said it on more than one occasion, that we are willing, to change very little, or very good things. Yes, that is important: without these agreements, I led the police for a sensible, reasonable itinerary, use the internal mechanisms that the police have, but in any case, it is not subject to the CUP. We have the feeling that the police have already paid a high price in the constitution of this government – it has already been a currency of change – and we again have this feeling – if you repeat – that they will return, the police and the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, to be a currency of change for the approval of the assumptions. In the face of this reality, which concerns us, the Socialists and Unity Parliamentary Group, and we honestly believe that on a very important part of the citizenry, we offer our support for the approval of the assumptions, so that we do not make decisions that go against the body and that, in the end, will not be good for the conjunction of our country. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.39.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. The word "Interior Counselor", Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, continues.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.40.0	President, Members, Members... the truth is that I don't know if to start with the assumptions, but then I remembered that I don't get the Economic Advisor, and therefore I don't get the answer. It seems to me that it is inappropriate, let's say, of the debate, in relation to what we're talking about, that we're talking about whether they want to approve the assumptions or they don't want to approve the assumptions. I want to talk about security, don't I? And ask me a few questions... that your own question is captivating, isn't it? I mean, whether or not they trust the police. I have said this by active and passive, but not just by word – and I have also said this by active and passive – but by fact – by fact – with concrete facts, every day, giving support and standing at the side of the police, yes, and giving means to the police, yes. And that didn't always happen, Mr. Swordler. For many years there has been no movement, and this is certainly a time against security, but it is a time for trust and security in our country: do not contract and keep a thing every time with less effect, with less means, with less resources. And that's been going on for many years, for example, for years when you were an Inner Counselor, when there was [[applause]] for a long time – for a long time – a stagnation of the contraction of moves and a drop in the pressure of 297_millions to 130. That's what it's like to stack up the Squad's Stitches and not give them confidence. I honestly do not understand your question today, because there is a committee, which this Parliament has given up, just to talk about these issues. And in the framework of that committee we can talk about this and all the issues that each of you considers more appropriate and try to reach consensus. For the whole of the intervention, and for the whole of the interventions that he has made in the past, very aggressive not formally, but on the basis of, with regard to the policy of security of this Government, I come to the conclusion that he really cares little about this question whether or not we trust the police, because he knows that, and on the basis that he cares, and in which he deals, it is to try to install an imaginary; an imagination in which there is an irresponsible government in the hands of radicals who do not believe in the police and generate insecurity, and to stand up as the person, the party, which guarantees security, which guarantees order and guarantees trust in the security bodies. But do you know what's going on? That this speech is planned, nailed, just like the one that does the Spanishist right, including, against its own government, against the own government of its members of the Socialist Party. Exactly the same speech – exactly the same speech. "A government in the hands of communists and independenceists, who do not give confidence...; it is the same speech. And it's feeding... the same speech they make there, you realize it here. And it seems to me that this is a bad help to the Squad Cushion. Miri, I offered him a trip in time; not very long ago, 2013, also a parliamentary commission to talk about the public order model. You think that at that time some parties were very upset because the public commission did not include the rubber drivers – you will remember well, you – because they said that, as the use of the rubber drivers had to be checked, in the name of the commission it had to be. It was called, among others, the Socialist Party, which includes the word "rubber drivers" to the Commission. Finally, it wasn't like that, but the committee worked and it had results. And look, commissions serve, for example, for that. You, as an Interior Advisor, on May 2013, said that you were discarding the rubber drivers in a round – round – form. And he said it because that was to leave the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Five months later, after the committee's discussions, he said that it was not possible to rake the rubber drivers, but he said suddenly, there was already the door open to the possibility that it is true. The December 2013 agreement was reached to remove the rubber drivers, and the April 2014 agreement was made. The reasons they gave from the government, in this case you, as a Councillor of the Interior, to claim that they were sensitive to social demand. He said they were taking them out because the company no longer accepted the use of rubber drivers. It seems to me an interesting reflection. And he also said in a straight line that this wasn't going to take half a mile to the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Honestly, I don't know if it was more round six months before or six months later, but I'm sure what went on after that was an honest and honest debate of the different parliamentary groups to come to conclusions. What happened there, that debate that occurred, those reflections, that had the opportunity to live you as a Councillor of the Interior, is what I ask you to do also in this committee. And in what you agree with, then, and what you disagree with, it's position, and in the committee's mark we talk about it – we talk about it. Miri, the other day, in a newspaper of renown prestige in the defense of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra as ABC, you wrote an article in which you said – a very matt thing –: "In the hands of the radicals. When did you change, from May 2013 to April 2014, from position on rubber drivers, in whose hands were you? The radicals, too? I could come to that conclusion. But as I grow in the bounds and in the good intentions of the rulers, I am convinced that the reasons for which he did it are not because he was in radical hands, supposedly radical – that then, at the next point, we will also talk about radicalism – only because he believed that it was the best option – he believed that it was the best option. And I've said it many times, the police in Catalonia, if it's so good police – that it is – if it has this recognition of the citizens – that tea – is for many reasons, probably for the work they do every day and that it's very anonymous and that it doesn't recognize enough. We talk a lot, sometimes, about sorolls and not about the effective work that makes the cos de Mossos d'Esquadra day by day. But if she's a good cop and she's recognized as a good cop, and this government recognizes her as a good cop, it's just because she never thought she was perfect and was always willing to get rich, listen and improve. And that's the feeling that the Squad's Stitch has always had. And this is the will of this government, to subtend the cos of squadron moss, like all the instance of this administration, to the scrutiny, yes, to the scrutiny of the citizens, to the scrutiny of this Parliament, to the opinion, to the contrast. Because that's democracy, as you know, and that's why we proposed this committee, and that's why we're convinced that this committee is a good deal to agree on and debate about the future of the Squad Ways, as it would probably be good for us to do in many other areas and in many other issues. Therefore, yes, trust; yes, permanent improvement; yes, debate, and yes, trust is concrete with facts, with bets, with assumptions, with resources and with media. The rest, I think it's words, words and words. And the words are very important, but after the words have to come, and it seems to me that we have to give up, above all, the partyism, and it seems to me that in this permanent speech to question the government's willingness to believe in the Squad Coast there is a deep willingness to partyism on the part of, in this case, the questioner. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.41.0	Thank you, Counselor. It has the word now, in the turn of the line, the deputy Mr Ramon Swordler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.42.0	Thank you. [[Pause.]] Now, now, yes. Thank you, Madam President. In the first place, Mr. Counselor, I thank you for reading the articles to me. I also read what you tell us through some digitals, that you don't give up what it was; they almost dedicated a headline to us. But in any case, this band, I had always thought, President, that the interrogations were because the government challenged what we asked for. I asked him what he thought of this external control unit, and you told me about the rubber pilots. Yes, I had a counter position at the time; they suppressed it because they laid down the foams, which now they want to take. But in any case, the police in their joint, there's a resolution that is number 13, if I didn't go wrong, that says, "Listen, it's a balance of forces that you can't lose. This is the substantial point and in which it does not give. I repeat the question, why it would be good to start this committee knowing what the Government criteria are. You portrayed mine, originally, and said, "Listen, honor the fact that you have changed. I say: "In the beginning, what is its criteria on what the CUP proposes? Originally, what's his criteria? As long as he's not an irrelevant partner. It's the one who's giving it away, supposedly, governmental and parliamentary. And, in this sense, say: "Listen, if you are willing to disagree with this, because you believe, like me and like us, that the police have enough mechanisms to correct, to adapt and to improve... Because, if some organization is self-critical, I assure you that it is the police – and this you know, I know and I know everyone who has passed through the Interior – so if you believe that it is, you do not have that support. And here you have a frank, to make things definitely good girls. And he says, "Listen, and who are not presumptive? Equipments, that's it... they're punches, words, words, words. Do you think that the 1,200 police officers who showed up two weeks ago would fire weapons or fire guns or fire equipment or fire more commissariats? No, they demand respect; they demand respect that they have not found in the government with a vote that is done here. [[applause]] , in the general policy debate. They demanded that respect. Then they tried to correct it... and they asked her over the requested disk twice to you, and they made a resolution and we ended up voting that we did respect the Moisos. But they will not at that time be told that they had lost it or, as a matter of fact, that the police in general and in particular the Squadron Mosses have the perception and the absolute certainty that you have lost your respect for it. Because I assure you that those who go to the demonstration don't travel to ask for equipment. Hey, and for the best of equipment, to deal with all the underage retirement issues, to deal with the increase in squadron movements. And we want the safety board to be excellent and go very well, and we'll applaud it. He'll always have us on his side, you and the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. But there are also intangibles, which you can describe as words, words, words, but for us they are not absolute anecdotes or irrelevant, but they are part, in short, of which is the soul of the police body. I therefore reiterate – I repeat – this proposal that we have made to you. I repeat the question. We are interested, it would be reasonable to know, as you know in origin 2013 which was the position of the Government respecting a proposal... Why not..., it is a really distressed proposal – I continuate myself in the adjective. We didn't see him at the police station around us. That there is an external, privatized organ outside the government and that it is not judicial, that it has the capacity to sanction. We need to know where we want to go. With our own accounts, we can improve, but in order to benefit according to what proposals, listen, do not count. With our group, it is not in time, in the end, to weaken the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. You don't count it absolutely for nothing. Why aren't there, because there's no way, right? Therefore, answer us, in short, what you think respects this. Answer us, in short, what you want to say – because it's the third time we ask you – what you want to say from the Department of Interior or how it translates from doing the job. Because it's not a minor issue. We're talking about an armed body and we're talking about a democratic debate. Can you explain to us how this is translated, how it is understood, how it is read? Therefore, ultimately, honourable counselor, we are not speaking of words, words, words. Here we have, therefore, to make it look like the best, of course, material of the body. And no, we won't compete to see who respects him the most, but please don't use this all of the loss of the word, word, word when someone tries to defend the body. What they did was skate in the general policy debate with a resolution, voting against the body, and they got out the one they got out. Therefore, let's go back to things, respect, but above all, draw the picture that is the Government's vision, because one must have, I suppose, respect this commission and respect this concrete point, because they are not minor people. For us, it's absolutely decision-making. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.43.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Then there's the word "Interior Counselor."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.44.0	Thank you. Well, don't say what I didn't say. I always... don't say what I haven't said. Word, word, word; only word, word, word does not serve for nothing. That's what I said. Words are very important. Hi, if they are! And the respect for the Squad Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's And with concrete support. And he's always oblivious on one side. Now I'll explain to you two examples of two things that you always forget. At the demonstration they demanded respect. Don't forget it, huh? He's demanaging everything in the room, huh? You'd check the government, but they'd check the whole room. Many hours were devoted to making this clear. The one who passes, that some parties 'nvan forget. But they made it very clear that it was all political representatives and that things were coming from all over the world. First thought. Next. Do you know what they're saying? That's a lot of partying. You can't use Squad Mossos as an election instrument. And I also ask it here: enough partyism, enough to use the Squad Mossos as an electoral weapon. Because it seems to me that it weakens, basically, the body, and therefore the institution, and therefore the country. I, in this sense, seem to be mistaken. The second thing you always forget. Look, I'm critical of two proposals... go so far that we believe that this is a matter for the committee, and therefore our position will be that of the committee, not before, because we don't want to devalue it, because we want it to be discussed there, which is the mark that we have given ourselves to discuss them, and therefore there we will do it. But he's always oblivious to one side. This... this... you've made reference to two proposals, haven't you? The Foam Ball, in concrete, and the external element, this one, isn't it? , to the entity or simple external evaluation body proposing the Popular Unity Application. And, before this statement, you consider it radical, dangerous. It's the same as the usual. And his party, Forward Units, brings security to a city where the mayor is from this same party, the mayor is from this same party. And these, as they rule with you – as they rule with you – this proposal is no longer that of a radical party, that of a dangerous party. No, no. These are oblivious, and that too can be remembered. Why, do you know what it's like to do this? It's just what a lot of people are tired of, it's partyism. [[Greetings.]] Why is that...? Why is that thing so radical? Why is that thing so dangerous? Because what is so harmful to the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, that it invalidates them for everything and converts them into a marginal organization to which it must permanently signify for proposals made by its own partners, then it does not denounce them. Why don't you? For partisanism. And that's one of the problems we're patenting. I invite him to go, his party, to the committee with this desire for consensus, to come to terms, to dialogue, which seems to me to be what the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. In between, we, obviously as you, I'm not sure, will continue to try to reach consensus. We'll continue to work, we'll continue to equip the Squad Squad Squad with the media you need. And naturally, we will continue to support them, day by day, in their permanent work. With facts and with words; with words and with facts, which seems to me to be the one that needs the Squad Ways. Therefore, the invitation we take part in the committee, that in its framework we debate everything that I consider most opportune, and above all, that we extend ourselves from the populist, simplistic and partyist discourses, which seem to us to be of no benefit to anyone. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.45.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the future of Europe]] [[300-00066/13]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, the question to the Government on the future of Europe, presented by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the French deputy of Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.46.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for being there. Counselor... Europe sometimes fascinates us but sometimes on the coast, and when we have doubts about Europe, I like to say that we have..., it is a good time to reconnect Steiner and his idea of Europe, which is this book which is prose poetry and which explains how we are European. And we're not just Europeans, which is not tria, but we're Europeans, and this is tria. In fact, together for Catalonia we are Europeans for the same reason that we are independent: because we estimate the values of democracy and because we know that we need to age for a better future for our big people and for our younger people. And we present this question about the future of Europe because Together is a party committed to Catalonia, in the same measure that we are committed to European founding values. And if we say that the European Union has deviated from its founding values we do nothing more than, precisely, acknowledge that these founding values are useful, necessary and need to be recovered. In fact, they are essential, now that the pandemic of the covid has made it obvious, in case it is even more important, that the old world has not just died, but that we need to create a new world for if we want to write in time to come. Where are we on the European project? The contemporary need to join European nations in defeating Nazism and fascism. Indeed, when Nazism and fascism were defeated, having caused the most ever documented extermination, Europe claims that only since cooperation and democratic principles can we bury totalitarianism and prevent it from being reproduced. And yes, today Europe has strayed from these founding principles and the birth of faixisms with various names and cares is a good proof. But that doesn't mean that we're not going to get a thousand degrees of esteem and determination for the original European project, which Steiner was writing, and that they're working and anticipating Schuman and Monnet. You spent several Members of this Parliament, with your president in front of you, we were in Berga, where every evening – that was the 1392nd Consequence – the Song of the Birds is interpreted. They began to do so to present the exile and imprisonment of the government of President Puigdemont and social leaders, and they continue to do so every day recalling the more than 3,500 reprisals and exiles in Belgium and Switzerland. It is clear that Europe we imagine has no space for the political repression that we have experienced and live in, as it is clear that Spain continues to war with democracy, that it is also at war with European values. And he loses it. We saw it in his action against President Puigdemont al-Alguer, failed. We have seen this against Valtònyc, free to Europe free. We have seen the persecution of the previous Bureau of this Parliament, especially ridiculous last week with Vice President Costa. And we've seen it today with the lawsuits against Lledoners' new ones. Governments which govern the State, the People's Party, the socialists or the commons, the persecution against political dissent is maintained unalterable, and for that reason many do not like to listen to it, that Spain is at war against democracy, that Spain violates democratic principles, that Spain violates European principles. And precisely because of this, how dangerous it is to launch the message that Spain negotiates, that Spain is willing to negotiate, that it is willing to dialogue or that it is willing to accept the rules of the democratic game, because it is lied, the facts prove that it is lied. And in Europe, certainly, there is also a lack of courage to treat Spain in the same terms as it is with Poland, for example; a Spain that has on inexplicable occasions violated the supremacy of the European right or had to end actions against political dissent. But the way is narrower every day because, paradoxically, one of the hardest actions provoked by Spanish repression, the exile of President Puigdemont and from his government, has generated one of the most powerful areas of denunciation and speaker against Spanish repression abroad, a powerful speaker in the heart of Europe who does not fail to highlight the strategy of Spanish repression against independence in Catalonia. That is why it should fill in the task of exile as the denunciator of the repression of the State and the figure of President Puigdemont as leader who went far beyond his role as President of the Generality, and who has become a European figure who represents and embodies for many citizens of the Union the defense of human rights, democracy and freedom. An altarpiece that does not stop repeating a truth that hurts: it is the European right that makes it possible to protect the Catalans persecuted for the devices of the State. In other words, the repression against Catalonia places Spain outside the European consensus. And as we speak of the altarpieces, we cannot fail to highlight and highlight the last judicial victory of Valtònyc, of Josep Miquel Arenas, who has been his brave fight and coughing that he has left not only in evidence a little more the Spanish State, but has made Europe a little better accompanying a European state to recognize that monarchical and republical privileges are incompatible. Thank you, Valtònyc. [[Greetings.]] But ours, ours is not just a denunciation job, but it must also be a proposed job about which Europe we want and which paths we propose to go through until we get it. At the beginning of this year 2021, he knows perfectly well, counselor, Euro MPs from Junts for Catalonia, Esquerra, GNP, Bildu, Sinn Féin, Regions and Solidarity have created a group in favour of the right to self-determination that will set up in its own conference on the future of Europe the impulse of a European clarity act to resolve the democratic disputes about the free determination of the European Union, the Self-Determination Caucus, which counted in its founding manifesto with the active participation of President Puigdemont, Euro MPs Pernando Barrena, Izaskun Bilbao, Jordi Sole, Chris MacManus, François Alfonso, Toni Comín, Clara Ponsati and Diana Riba. And it is created as a group of Euro MPs belonging to non-state nations and nations with territorial disputes that advocate because these communities can freely and democratically exercise their right to self-determination in a legally recognized way. Its aim is to work within the European institutions to promote their common points of view and to defend the need for a European law of clarity as a means of resolving democratic disputes over self-determination in the European Union. The foundational manifesto recalls that this legal instrument was already included in the Estrasburg Manifesto approved for the Intergroup of Minorities at the Eurocambra on April 2014. And it underlines that its objective is to promote the dialogue, agreement and democratic decision gathered by a qualified majority of the citizenry to resolve those conflicts that the processes exhaust at the local level. It is, therefore, a question of generating a new tool that I have studied, analysed and proposed known and applied experiences in the international and European mark before similar problems, and more so, it must be based on the doctrine of the United Nations on the right to self-determination. National realities, all European national realities, must be reflected in the concept of diversity found in the very motto of the European Union, where there are nations without state and nations with territorial dispute in very different degrees of recognition and autonomy and very different aspirations. And it is this mark..., and it is in this mark of the next European conference on the future of Europe, that it offers us a very good opportunity to raise and debate these questions and the questions that affect nations without state and nations in territorial dispute, that we aspire to create or complete our own. And for this reason, the peremptory need for a European law of clarity that is not subject to the whims of the state, but to that which marks and delimits the democratic playing field of respect, promotion and recognition of all and each of the human rights in its individual and collective dimension. Territorial problems are not internal problems of the states that suffer them; they are European crises and must be treated as such. As you can see, our proposal, our reception for Europe, is the same as we are proposing for Catalonia: more democracy, more civil and political rights, more decision-making power for more participatory and transparent decision-making people and structures. And who do we fight against, Counselor? So with Espanya's supposed Europeanism, the one that fails to complete the European directives, the one that has convictions on the part of the European Court of Human Rights, the one that undertakes its political opposition and that dissolves a parliament – this Parliament – democratically chosen. We want a Europe that is closer to people, that respects the political will of all nations and that takes into account the cultures and languages that conform to it. This plurinational and multilingual Europe that defended the beginning of this intervention is Europe in which it wants and has to work Catalonia to bring it the best of our home and to defend it also our national interests. This is our" Listen, Europe, this is our project, a project that is good for Catalonia and we also think the best for Europe in the 21st century, because it speaks of democracy, social rights and political rights and progress. And especially because he talks about the future. A project of which we are convinced, and therefore this inquiry, for which we will work with this Government. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.47.0	The words of the Counsellor of External Action and Government Obert, Ms. Victòria Alsina.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.48.0	Thank you very much, President. Members and Members, today we have an inquiry into the future of Europe, and it is very important that in your Parliament we devote..., sometimes we pause for a moment and devote ourselves to reflecting on substantive issues, on issues that are important for our presence and our future. Catalonia has always had an international vocation, in fact, up for its own Mediterranean Sea. Today we will not be a history class, but the first consoles date from 1253 in places like Tunis, Algeria or, at the end of a few years, Alexandria. What is clear in any case, when a review of the history of Catalonia, is that this country has always had a vocation to be present in the world. In Catalonia we are Mediterranean but we are Europeans. In fact, it is our indisputable sphere of reference, and it is also a compromise that sees us all the way, a compromise with Europe that has been confirmed with the restoration of the Catalan institutions of the Generality and that I believe is well reflected in a phrase that President Pujol, year 85, said in a speech that he made about Europe in Aquizgra, which had been the capital of the Carolingian empire. I repeat the sentence literally. Deia: "We want to build a country, our own, and we want to participate modestly in the construction of all Europe." In fact, I believe that, in short, the slogan of the department that encapsulates him could say that Catalonia must be present in the world and that we want to participate in global reptes. With Catalans we have to talk about Europe. Europe is mostly a story of success, of poor, of economic progress; it is the combination we know that better combines the ability to generate wealth with the ability to redistribute it. We are also clear that we need to renounce a part of our sovereignty, as a function of this union. But we have to be demanding, because precisely, when someone truly believes in a project, they always aspire to improve it. The European Union is not perfect and surely it is not going through its most popular moment. In fact, I believe, humbly, that the best way to be European is to critically analyze the inflection points of the recent history of the European integration process. Issues such as the failed ratification of the treaty, for which an attempt was made to establish a European constitution in 2004, which, like most of them, had lost ambition with regard to the European project. In this same line, critically analyze the exit to the financial crisis, which was based on this ultra-orthodox austerity, which did not end up pleasing anyone. Nor has the treatment of migration crises and agreements with Turkey been exemplary, which in fact have outsourced a responsibility that concerns us all. We have certainly seen a country voting in bloc abandon, so the Union with a referendum, I, in fact, only the apparent negative consequences of Brexit have curbed that other countries are following this path. And Europe cannot be built on the basis of the consequences of abandoning the Union. Violations of the rule of law in Europe also call into question the future European project. Here I would like to quote the Belgian Prime Minister, Alexander De Croo, who recently gave a phrase that I subscribe to cent_per_cent. I also quote literally: "The European Union is a union of values, it is not an automatic boxer, you cannot make money if you refuse European values. The Belgian prime minister, in fact, is quite right, but grinyola, isn't he? , which ultimately defends the values of the European Union based on political calculations. To feel what is said now about Poland by the very European leaders who remained immovable while a member state – Spain – maintained eager political leaders and Catalan activists, therefore, causes some perplexity and, why not say so? A deep disappointment. On the other hand, for example, the approach to the challenges of the coronavirus, with all these foundations that we know well, has increased the Union's ability to defend the interests of its citizens. In this context, in order to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the Union, the Presidencies of the Parliament, the Commission and the Council of Europe have promoted this conference on the future of Europe, which, through a process of participation at European level, aims to contribute to making visible the opinions and proposals of citizens, especially young people. This conference, obviously with methodological limitations and political impulses, however, allows us to put the best of ourselves and bring our degree of smile at a historic moment in the process of European integration. Thus, Catalonia will participate actively in this conference and will do so with your own eyes. A government agreement was approved that expresses the Government's willingness to participate in it, and we will do so through a series of acts that will promote the Department of Foreign Affairs and Government Obert. We will enable a space in a citizen participation portal, we will organize a series of round tables in the territory – in fact, we will make one each time – where we will discuss, together with economic, social and citizens agents, therefore, the themes that articulate the debates of the Union. Along the lines of the topics proposed by the European Union itself, we will also talk about the recognition of the official status of Catalonia, which cannot be said that, with the thirty languages spoken most to the European Union, it is vetoed and its official status denied, when it is a clear issue of lack of political will, to do so. We are closing these activities linked to the conference of the future of Europe with a great final act of Europeanist reaffirmation where the main actors representing Catalonia in Europe will be present in the years to come. We'll do all this in your universities, because there's not a better place to do it. We will also take this opportunity to set the Government's position in relation to the governance system of the European Union. In this framework, one of the ideas that we want to convey is that Europe must accept in its own if the coexistence of nations that expect to become state. The Catalan question must cease to be an internal question and, in this sense, therefore, deserves a deep reflection. We will not ask European institutions to sympathize with independence, not close to doing so. We're realists, we know it's a summer club, but we'll ask them to take the right to self-determination. Other European territories have seen millions of citizens demonstrate peacefully in defence of the right of self-determination every year. And they must agree with me that what was not lacking in these demonstrations were European flags. The victory of the candidacy encapsulated for President Puigdemont meant that Junts per Catalunya - Lliures per Europe is one of the highest voting percentages of those European elections, almost thirty_per_cent, and fifteen points higher than the European average. And that doesn't happen by chance. Despite the disappointment he referred to before, the Catalans know that Europe is the largest area of our small country's rights and freedoms. If Europe wants to be a Romanesque in the defence of human rights, if it wants to maintain its soft power, it cannot condemn national minorities to a perpetual feeling of impotence and constant denial of their will. The existence of a legal framework that provides coverage for European secessions is the best scenario for minimizing potential conflict. In this sense, we understand that the work of the Self-Determination Caucus is necessary and we also want to enhance it in the framework of this future on the European Union. I'm done. I carry my entire career working directly or indirectly on European projects. I particularly recall the fact that I was asked to review the organisation of the public sector of the Balkan countries precisely in order to adapt them to European standards as well as this enlargement project which did not just materialise, or in the field of research, various activities and projects to co-ordinate the European area of knowledge transfer. Many ways can be contributed to Europe. I particularly, as the Foreign Affairs Adviser of this Government, consider Europe to be our brand of reference and our obligation to always have full involvement and at all levels. Regardless of the particular opinions concerned, there is no doubt that Catalans feel European and want to work to improve this integration process. And that's why this government is now involved and will be involved in any debate that it helps to build, that helps to rebuild the democratic legitimacy of the European Union, it's already through this portal of participation or the conferences that we will be making in all the lifetimes of Catalonia or this final act that will bring together the representatives that we have all had in the European institutions these past years. We would always be firm and always compromised with the progress of Catalonia and Europe, because we understand that this progress is inseparable and they are the same thing. In the march of these days and all the debates that will be produced, we expect everyone. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-02-1601.49.0	And with this inquiry we arrive at the end of today's day. I'll remind you that we're going to make the minute of silence now at the construction site. Then there are the constitutions of the committees. And we suspend the session until tomorrow morning at nine. Thank you very much.
