ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.1.0	Very nice late. Let's start the session. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] And, before starting with the order of the day, I inform you that, as a compliment to what the Movement 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia establishes, on the rescue operations to the Mediterranean and the policies to gather migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration from the beginning of 2021 there has been a total of 1,577 dead or missing persons to the Mediterranean. [[Commemoration of November 25, International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Donations]] This plenary session will take place today to discuss the issues of the totality of the draft law of assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for the year 2022, as well as the draft law of fiscal, administrative and public measures for the same year; a plenary session that is held the same week that commemorates the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. The Parliament of Catalonia adheres to the commemorations of this day with various activities. Upon entering Palau, you must have seen, at the honor level, that there has been a visual action, which is called "Red Saturdays, to remember and present the victims of male violence of this year 2021 in Catalonia. The Sabbaths have been provided for Parliament's workers. [[Statement by the Catalan Parliament's Board of Spokespersons on the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women]] [[401-00011/13]] And, thus, this commemoration motivates, in fact, what is the first point of the order of the day, the commemoration of November 25, International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. That's why I'm going to read the statement that all the parliamentary groups in the chamber processed one less to the later Board of Portaveus, dyed the proppassat you said. "In 1993 the General Assembly of the United Nations defined violence against women as any act of violence based on the kind of physical, sexual or psychological harm that is possible or real, including threats, coercion or arbitrary prohibition of freedom, whether in public life or in private life. According to data, also, from the United Nations, three_of_each_four long-lived women and 240_million women each year are victims of this type of violence. The Council of Europe adopted on May 11, 2011, in Istanbul, the Convention on Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. It was the first binding legal instrument at European level and provided a comprehensive legal framework for preventing and fighting violence against women and protecting victims, with the will to end the impunity of perpetrators of violence against women and domestic violence. The signatory states are committed to implementing legislative and preventive measures to combat this type of violence, as well as establishing victim care mechanisms. On November 25th, the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women is celebrated, a commemoration promoted with the aim of demanding the commitment of the states and the international community in the struggle for the elimination of this sacra. Instead of progressing towards its eradication, however, it has been found that later months, the pandemic of covid-19 and the measures taken to curb its advent, the indicators of violence against women, especially in the area of the pair, have increased. The health pandemic has intensified, therefore, this other pandemic of male violence. In Catalonia, during the year 2021, two feminicides were committed. The Leonor, the Jordina, the Maria del Pilar, the Sulay Betty, the Lucia, the Alla, the Antonella Abigail, the Pamela, the Maria Rosa and the Maria Isabel are the last victims of a disastrous list of more than one hundred and thirty feminicides registered since 2008. Thus, according to data from the Department of Interior, up to the second quarter of this year 6,314 complaints have been filed and 6,533 victims of male violence have been reported. Also worrying are the data that refer to the age of women who are victims of this violence, because according to data, also, of the Department of Interior, referring to the same semester of the year 2021, 48.5_percent of victims of sexual crimes are underage; 20.9 correspond to children between zero and twelve years, and 27.6_percent to children of thirteen years old. Some data that, unfortunately, mark a maximum history and show us how male violence affects the women of all ages. For all these reasons, the Parliament adheres to the commemoration of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, shows all its support for all victims of male violence – in all its forms and manifestations – and confirms its commitment to continue working to eradicate all forms of violence against women – in all areas, including the institutional, such as backtracking the Catalan law – and to denounce and alienate those masculinist, misogynistic, sexist and underprivileged attitudes that plague women daily. It is, this, a daily struggle that we must face from an intersecting optics, because we cannot fail to take into account the double unjust situation that many women suffer from assaulted by racial, age or sexual identity. We will only take on an equal and just society when everyone can live safely and in full freedom. [[Interventions (Rule 201.2 of the Rules of Procedure)]] Further, in accordance with Article 201.2 of the Rules of Procedure, which allows to invite to compare and to intervene in the Plenary to persons of relevance in the field of its institutional, political, social, scientific or cultural significance, as agreed in the last Meeting of the Donor Spokesperson to the Lady Almudena Rodríguez, while giving thanks to the thirty entities of women who accompany us today in this opening of the Plenary. Thank you very much. I'm welcome. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.2.0	Okay. First of all, thank you very much, President of Parliament. And many thanks also to the esteemed MP Aurora Madaula for this invitation to participate in the International Day Memorial Act for the Elimination of Violence against Women. In my case, as the advocate of sexual and reproductive rights and as the professional of an entity that carries more than thirty years fighting for the real guarantee of sexual and reproductive rights, I want to focus on this concrete area – which also backs our law, the Catalan law of the rights of women to eradicate male violence – as is the area of rapes on sexual and reproductive rights of all women, in all its diversity, and also of the LGBTIQ+ population. I want to remember, first of all, that sexual and reproductive rights are human rights, and that their real guarantee allows them to move to just, inclusive and democratic societies, where everyone can live free and free of all kinds of rapes. I am talking about rights as important as the right to abortion, the right to compulsory sex education in the school curriculum and the right to sexual diversity, among others. And I want to focus especially on this area of masculinist violence because we are in a very concrete historical, political and economic context, we are facing an offensive against these rights by phonementalist groups and by extreme right-wing parties and by world-wide fexists. In perfect synergy, these groups and political parties are virulently attacking the recognition of sexual and reproductive rights by difusing their hate speech through institutions and, naturally, communication media. And you can see it every day. We can see it here, in this very Parliament, that of Catalonia, through different interventions that involve an offensive to sexual and reproductive rights and their defenders, discourses and arguments of an extreme right that serves an economic elite – that this economic elite has other objectives, economic objectives, above all things. And through this speech, neo-liberal economic agendas, "privocides and austerids", can be implemented. The speech of hatred and the rapes exercised against the sexual and reproductive rights of women in all their diversity is a way to destroy democracy, and power, in this way, implement this neoliberal economic agenda. And it is precisely this point, which interests feminists and defenders of sexual and reproductive rights that we fight every day for the eradication of male violence. And that would please me to include it and start with a question in a way of reflection: Is it possible to eradicate masculinist rapes and heteropatriarchate from a neoliberal economic model? Good part of the feminisms we think it isn't. We know that without the total transformation of this economic model it will not be possible to eradicate masculinist rapes. And, meanwhile, we can put stickers, which, in the best of cases, will only reach a small part of the women, but in no case all of them. Because the economic model on which the states are based is a model that carries in its DNA the exercise of the different violins, and that requires the exercise of these rapes against the women, against the people LGTBIQ+, against racialized people, against the people migrated, in order to be able to perpetuate and remain in power. An economic model that, every time more, needs to expel most of the population of the system. And it does so precisely and thanks to the exercise and the increase of these rapes towards women and other collectivities. We therefore understand that it is essential to address the structural causes of rape against women. Without addressing systemic barriers, they may not be able to pose any masculinist violence. Feminists and defenders of sexual and reproductive rights demand transformative political commitments, which go so far as to make this economic model impoverish us and violent us all and most of the population. I'm here today, negotiating assumptions. The women who suffer and face up to male violence every day need firm political commitments, which allow the change of this system; political commitments which have as their objective to put an end to this economic model. Let us wait for your courageous, transformative actions, to end the "austericide" policies as the key element for the eradication of masculinist rapes against women and the rest of the population. Without a system change, we will never be able to eradicate masculinist rapes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.3.0	Today, with Maria-Mercè Marçal's Song of Walking, we have come to celebrate life against fascism, which only celebrates death. [[Mireia Vives and Borja Penalba play Maria-Mercè Marçal's Song of Walking. Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.4.0	Thank you very much. We have heard Maria-Mercè Marçal's Song of Walking, a song, a poem that wants to invite everyone to bid on this more inclusive boat that I marched towards a better world. We have done so in the sight of Mireia Vives and Borja Penalba, who have come from Valencia, and which also allows us to commemorate today Santa Cecilia, the day of music. [[Project of the Law of Presuppositions of the Generality of Catalonia by 2022 (amendments to the totality)]] [[200-00003/13]] Let's move to the second point, so, now, of the order of the day, the debate and voting of the papers to the totality of the bill of assumptions of the Generality for the year 2022. The debate and voting of the items to the totality will be substantiated in accordance with the establishment of Rule 132 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. And, in the first place, for the presentation of the draft law of assumptions, will speak the councillor of Economy and History, Mr. Jaume Giró. I've got the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.5.0	Many honourable President, many honourable President, Vice President, Councillors, Councillors, esteemed government companies, Members and Members, I appear before this chamber today to defend the draft assumptions that we were going to present two weeks ago, on the 9th, and to ask them not to put any impediments in their parliamentary procedure. During these days that have passed from abroad, you have had time to examine the bill in depth. In fact, a few games and all that was left, in time, to come to the conclusion that these assumptions are not good for the country. My intention for the next few minutes is to explain why I think they're wrong. But before that, allow me an urgent reflection on what happened in these last hours. The first thing I have to say to you is that I very much welcome the assumptions that we have approved and that we have presented in this Parliament, and as I promised at the time, they can pull forward and come into force the next month of generation for the first time in eleven years. But I want to add something else. Look, I went into politics for some very determined convictions and at a time I thought it was very special to the history of the country. The best way to honor these convictions was to get these assumptions to thrive with the independence majority. It could not be, and for this reason my satisfaction today is not complete, unfortunately, as I say, that the assumptions continue their parliamentary process. Now, that no one is making any illusions, that no one sees in this an affluence of our aspirations, because I am sure that, beyond this episode and sooner than later, they are able to re-demonstrate the strategic unity of independence and to work even harder at the hour to which most of the country aspires. [[Greetings.]] And, said that, let me talk to you about the bill you're calling us into this Parliament today. In the last two weeks I must have heard that these assumptions are not the best that Catalonia could have, but that they are, in change, the best assumptions that we can have at these times. The difference between one thing and the other has to be seen precisely with another distinction, which Mr Jordi Riba pointed out a few days ago to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy; I refer to the difference he recalled, citing Max Weber, between conviction and responsibility. Well, from my point of view, political action is the result of a permanent, and surely irresolvable, tension between these two elements: conviction and responsibility. A political action that is always and exclusively inspired by conviction risks being of little use to the management of the citizens' problems of every day. At the other extreme, a political action that is based solely on responsibility runs the risk of becoming a bureaucratic and technocratic management of the public thing, disconnected from people's feelings. The good policy, the policy that best serves the citizen, consists in keeping in balance this tension between these two elements, which, naturally, is not easy. With my speech I propose to explain briefly why I have the conviction that these are not the best assumptions that Catalonia could have, but I also propose to explain them – in this case, more broadly – why I think it is an exercise of responsibility to approve the best assumptions that Catalonia can have at this time. Catalonia needs assumptions, and the assumptions that we have presented to the government in this Parliament are the assumptions that Catalonia needs. Let's talk about convictions. Look, these aren't the best assumptions, for a simple reason: they're not because we're not yet a country will rise. I want to talk to you about a few minutes of sobriety. Modern politics is based on the value of certain convictions, such as the unconditional values of freedom or the right of self-determination of peoples and people. We have tried and continue to try, with all peaceful and democratic means in our midst, to exercise our right to decide. Before, however, we have found ourselves a state that has responded with the power to respond to states that fear to be ancient empires, to which is rape and persecution, economics, and violating rights and freedoms, and to all those who pose in danger the unity of the country, and forcing the seams of freedom and truth. I assure them, however, that in this way convictions are not forgotten; in this way convictions are strengthened. The parties that form the government are sovereignists for a matter of principles or, which is the same, for the conviction that there are values that we are not willing to renounce. But I would say that we are also for a conviction, if you want, a little more prosaic: the conviction that we want Catalonia to be able to give us the laws that we really need. And we want it because we know that, governments that govern, in a Catalonia independent the Catalans would win, if we compare ourselves to what we now have, governments that govern in Madrid. We just saw it just a few days ago with the Constitutional Court's ruling that the IRPF's downfall on the ground makes it lower than we were going to approve in the wake of the law accompanying the assumptions. But this is not, much less, an anecdotal. Over the past few years, the different governments of the PSOE and the PP have resorted to more than forty laws approved by the Generality, which have been suspended or cancelled in whole or in part – among them, of course, the infamous feeling and many consequences of the 2006 Statute. And all these laws have stayed in the coven and give us clues of how we would self-governance ourselves if we were a state going up and as a series of transformers some assumptions that we could give ourselves in that case. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, how many of us here believe that we are better off as a country without a proper law of housing emergence, without a proper law of energy poverty as we were going to approve 2015; I ask you how many of us prefer not to have an effective law of equality between men and women as we are going to approve the same year. And I'm saying that because all the laws that have been dropped or evicted by the Constitution count on the overwhelming support of the groups of this chamber, not just of the sovereignist groups. The problem, however, is not that the State systematically puts us on the road when we want to govern; the problem is not the legality or illegality of our decrees. We'd be confused if we thought I was claiming the constitutionality of the laws we donate to the country. What I'm claiming here is the right we have as the country to give us the laws we want, without having to send us to anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that if all of us in this Parliament can legislate with full freedom, and if we dispose of all the resources we generate, Catalonia would be no more than a country with a government that is closer to the citizen, but also more supportive. This counselor is convinced that before I die I will see Catalonia's independence. [[Greetings.]] And I'll tell you something else. I am convinced that when I arrive this day, any of those who are here in this chamber will claim to the Government of Catalonia that the country will return to the pre-existing situation we were before. No one's gonna ask me. [[Greetings.]] And I am convinced, at last, that the assumptions that we could have presented in an independent Catalonia are certainly better than those that we will present today. But we are here to speak not of the assumptions we might have, but of the ones we have; to speak not only of our convictions, but, as I said before, of our responsibilities. In quantitative terms, these are the highest assumptions that have ever been presented before a parliament in the history of this country. It's an expansionary assumption. They are assumptions designed to transform and reactivate Catalonia, supporting businesses and the fabric of production and entrepreneurs. They are very sensitive social assumptions, because, as I have said these days, three of every four euros is destined for social spending. And they're green, feminist, inclusive, child- and resource-oriented assumptions. We therefore have the instrument to overcome the effects of this pandemic, but we also have the lever to deal with the long-term transformations that the country needs. These must be the prerequisites of Catalonia's social and economic recovery. The pandemic crisis has put up six years of sustained growth. Between the years 2014 and 2019 the Catalan GDP grew a 2,8_per_cent annual of midjana, almost a point more per envelope of the euro area. This means that the foundations of our economy are solid, and that under normal conditions we generate sufficient resources to strengthen the economic and social pillars on which the country is based. The pandemic changed everything; GDP fell by one year for another 11.5_per_cent, which is the same as saying that the virus destroyed everything Catalonia had won in four years. This health crisis has led to an unprecedented impact on the country's social, economic and public services structures. Now it seems that we are starting to raise our heads, but I will not deceive them: the moment we have before us is full of uncertainties. Our country's vaccination taxes are among the highest in the world, which has manifested the maturity and strength of Catalan society, but above all it is the way to the recovery of Catalonia. Now, despite the fact that the forecasts of growth in GDP and employment for this year 2021 and also for the 22 are optimistic, it would not be realistic to think that the consequences of the pandemic would disappear on 31 December. In fact, these days we are seeing a resurgence of the virus all over Europe in the face of the infection and also the complications generated among people who have not been vaccinated. In addition, to the unpredictable context of the pandemic, allow me to add other uncertainties. Inflation rises to the highest rate since 2012. There are global obstacles, such as the squandering of raw materials and the encumbrance of energy, that can stop the economic recovery that has begun. They think that between the generation and September the wholesale price of natural gas has risen by almost a five-cents_per_cent– between the generation and September, a 478_per_cent, the wholesale price of gas. Why is that important? So, at the level of the State, a twenty-i-five_per_cent of the electricity generation is done through gas systems, combined cycles, and industrial consumption is almost based on thirty_per_cent also in the gas. In addition to this, the pandemic also increased the inequality index, while in Catalonia we were able to significantly kill it thanks to public transfers. During the last few months, there have been good news too, I would say that a lot of good news. The internal demand in Catalonia is growing at a rate of more than 20 per cent, both for the drive of consumption at home and for the growth of gross capital formation, which anticipates investments. This, Members and Members, is very important, because what they tell us these figures is that both businesses and citizens fully trust the future of our country. In fact, they may even trust him a little more than some Members of this chamber. The exports, for their part, also record a very strong growth, of almost twenty-i-sis_per_cent, and already exceed the levels of 2019; I repeat, the ones of 2019, not the ones of the 20, which are not comparable. For what it does to tourism, which is one of the industries that has suffered the most, if not the most, data invite them also to optimism. Even though we are still far from the 2019 figures for what it does at the arrival of foreign visitors, internal tourism has reactivated strongly, and I must say so, too. During the third quarter, the total overnight stay of Catalan tourists increased by almost a 20-i-dos_per_cent compared to 19– I compare it with 19. And a later positive: the rate fell below eleven per cent last September. We have at these times a rate of up to three points and a half per second under the Spanish middle, and practically we are already at the same level as we were two years ago. It's still a very high tax rate, and we have to work to lower it. What do I mean, with all this? Look, I want to tell you two things: that we already have before our eyes conditions for Catalonia's reactivation, but I also want to say that uncertainties are very important. What we need now is an instrument that allows us to deal with these uncertainties and put all the facilities and means that we have at the bottom so that this reactivation, which just starts now, does not stop. This instrument – this instrument – is the premise. I'll tell you more: this instrument is the assumption that we present them in this room today. I want to pass on to you some figures that take into account the magnitude of the increase in expenditure and the exceptional ambition of the accounts we have designed for the coming year. The total expenditure provided for in the budget of 2022 is EUR 38,139_million. We propose an increase of EUR 5,618_million to the expenditure collected in Chapters 1 to 8. This means that if these assumptions move forward, as I'm sure they will, we will have a 17.3_per_cent more resources. In absolute numbers these accounts represent the largest annual increase in history, and in terms of relation they also represent the largest growth percentage since 2007. The half of this increase in expenditure is likely to have a non-finalist character, and more than €2,000_million corresponds to European funds. On this I have to make a point. During these days, these last days, I have felt that the assumptions we have developed are not as expansive as we do and that, if it wasn't for the injection of Europe, the growth of the accounts would be insignificant. Mirin, you just have to do a very simple arithmetical operation to see that if of the 5,618_million euros of extra presuppositionary we remain the 2,100 of European funds, there are still 3,500_million euros that come from other sources. We would already like it – we would already like it –, indeed, that the European injection was not what it is, but what it corresponds to us. In which we carry from year the Spanish State has assigned to Catalonia a little more than five percent of the funds from the recovery and resilience mechanism, and only twelve percent of the total European funds distributed territorially for the State. I would like to point out, in any case, as I said at the presentation to the audience of this Parliament, that I thank, thank the European Union for this strategic vision of the future to help states at this time of so much difficulty. And I want to point out that these expansion assumptions also reflect fiscal responsibility and accounting orthodoxy, adjusting us to the deficit limit of 0.6_per_cent, and that, even though this fiscal expansion, we reduce by more than two points the Generality's debt percentage on the country's GDP. Our debt rate on GDP will be at this assumption of 33,8_per_cent; the debt ratio on Espanya's GDP I want to remind you that it is 122_per_cent. Therefore, in macroeconomic terms we can say that the finances of the Generality, within the difficulties, are strong and healthy. And I assure you that, while this is coming from the current consulting team, it will not cease to be. I have said actively and passively that these assumptions are social assumptions. I am as much for what he does to the assignment of the joint accounts as for what he does to the specific assignment of the presuppositional increment of 22. We dedicate three_of_every_four euros to health, general education, university education, social rights, housing, public transport and employment promotion, and we are not very proud. But the Government of the Generality also has other responsibilities, and in the end, resources are who they are and we have to make responsible decisions, I insist. Naturally, we cannot fail to deal with small and medium-sized enterprises, equality and feminism, or stop doing climate action. We cannot afford not to continue pushing the search or to make a determined bet for digital policies and the territory. We cannot forget, like the country, the people who have seen the people, the people who have seen the vegueries, the pages, the food and feed sector, nor can we give up modernizing the justice system or maintaining worthy and reinsertive penitentiaries. A country that values itself and a government that values the country cannot fail to protect its language and cultural fact. Nor can we allow ourselves to stop sailing for the safety of the citizens, nor should we give up planning our ports, Europe and the world. Even though they can run to some Members, I believe that external action helps us to stimulate the activity of Catalan entrepreneurs and the economy as a whole much more than some might think. These expenses that I have just mentioned may not be considered social expenses, it is true, but if you think that our assumptions are not yet social enough, I invite you to tell us honestly where to retail. Because there's not enough to claim more money for housing, more money for salvation, more money for social policies or more money for education; we also need to think about where we need to get them. And this, on which we should detail, curiously, I must admit that I have found no one in this room who explained it to me. [[Greetings.]] In case, huh? What we have decided to do is that the only department in which I could have any sense of liberating resources is that of Economy and History. And that's exactly what we did, lowering our assumption a 3.4_per_cent. We'll try to do more with less to accomplish our job. It is a cross-cutting and service function for all government councils. Allow me one more point that seems important to me. If they let us – if they let us – these assumptions will pull forward, and if so, we will close the year 2022 with almost thirty-thousand new jobs in the public sector. Certainly, in this distance, eighty percent of the contracts went to the educational and health fields. All folded will represent an increment of the staff of the 11.6_per_cent, compared to two years ago, and a total of 276,000 people serving citizens of the country from the public sector to the end of the year you see. Perhaps this jifra will cause some Members – sure that in the caries – to be removed from the top of the chair. But, look, you can already calm down, because this government believes in the importance of the public sector, as most governments of advanced European countries believe; as well as believe that the public sector can play and must play a leading role as a transformation engine of Catalonia through its investments. And that's why the year 2022 we want to make the effort in greater investments than has ever been done by the Generality. In total, we are practically looking at €4,000_million in investment from the public sector, a figure that represents doubling those of this year. And I must tell you, Members and Members, that, in the case of Catalonia, governments which govern, the degree of implementation of investments lies with the initial assumption. So far I've talked to you about numbers and percentages, areas of activity and macroeconomic data. All the time I want to talk about how these figures materialize, with which concrete actions we plan to invest the resources we have. In health and for what it strictly does to new investment..., we will devote to greeting 585_million euros to improving hospitals and CAPs and equipping them with more equipment and equipment. This will be our ordinary inversion to salvation. In addition, we will allocate €500 million more extraordinary investment to continue to combat the health effects of the pandemic. All of this, despite the fact that the Madrid government has now decided not to have coveted funds... as if the pandemic and its effects had ended with the Cap d'Anny campaigns. It will be interesting to be aware and to see how the Government of Madrid executes the game of extraordinary foundations that, as a consequence of the emena presented at the initiative of Junts for Catalonia, has been incorporated into the opinion of the law, while I am afraid that they will make hands and hands to avoid this demand. If one thing has taught us the pandemic is that a strong and well-equipped health system is basic if we want to maintain a state of well-being able to cope with the needs of every day of the people, but it is also basic if we want you to be on condition to respond successfully to unexpected health crises and challenges. For what he does to education, we already know that we intend to make the tram free between the two and the three years, and that we will allocate 90_million euros to the next course. This measure has a huge social impact, because, even though the entire population benefits, the greatest benefit is for the parents and the seas with less resources. It is shown that child education expands the opportunities for children in the future, and, if it is free, allows parents to organize themselves better and have more facilities to access and stay on the job market. Therefore, I am sure that everyone here sees this measure as a step forward in a society that respects and values the state of welfare. In this band, we will invest 291_millions in teachers and schools, we will allocate 247_millions additional to implement the digital education plan of Catalonia. Once again, this pandemic has taught us that training opportunities are all related today to information technologies. I also want to talk about housing, a theme, housing, which has been central, as you know, in the negotiations that we have maintained until today. At the margin of the adjustments that can be made during the next few weeks, the assumption as we now have already contemplates a very significant effort in this distance. We will devote almost 400_million more to aid and subsidies for the rehabilitation of habitats. We will devote 141_millions to expanding the public housing stock for social logger. We will not add 3,300, either build them ourselves or serve the prerogative of the Generality of the right of aunt and retraction. And we will reserve an additional €100 million to help people who have the most difficulty in meeting their basic needs to pay the discount. I have spoken to you about salvation, education and housing, but these actions do not exhaust, nor do they exhaust, efforts to strengthen the well-being of the citizens and strengthen public services. In this sense, I would like to highlight the 356 million that we would devote to social programs for childhood and adolescence, and the 400 million that we plan to devote to guaranteed income from citizenship and pension complements. I want to make them, if I may, five cents of this last program, guaranteed citizenship income and pension supplements; let me hold it for a moment. As I said a moment ago, the Constitutional Court has annulled an initiative that we are going to adopt with the draft measures accompanying the 2020 Presumables Act. In concrete terms, the amount of the 5,550_euro-free limit that marks the State up to 6,105 that we were going to fix in Catalonia. In this way, 205,000 people – 205,000 people – who in Catalonia have a level of income under the 12,450_euros now have to pay more taxes. Ours was a measure clearly of social justice, a measure that clearly benefited the most unprotected people. As you know, the power parity indicator that acquired Catalonia is not the same as Extremadura, that Galicia or Andalusia. Here in Catalonia the parity index of purchasing power is different, it is obvious and is objectively so: 5.550_euros, in Catalonia, give for much less than any of these territories. That's why in his time he pushed the free minimum, because the governments of our country have always shown that they are in conditions of making policies closer to reality and to the needs of Catalans. The guaranteed income from citizenship and pension complements are an example of how policies that are made here are better than those that are made by the world. This program brings to the beneficiaries a subjective right. What does a subject right mean? This means that everyone who is on condition to ask for this help has right: it transfers a minimum income or supplements the thought, because the cost of living in Catalonia has nothing to do with the cost of living to other places. And I have to tell you, honourable Members and honourable Members, that we have allocated sufficient resources so that these people do not have to be on the lookout for this performance. Catalonia has no waiting list to collect a guaranteed income or a supplement to the pension; I don't know if other administrations can say the same. The year 1954 Josep Pla traveled to New York, commissioned for the magazine Destiny, to write a series of travel chronicles. It is known that when he arrived in the city and saw the gratacels, the people's brogit and the burning of all the streets and buildings, he asked his guide: "Listen, and all that, who pays for it? This Pla anecdote has made a little use of and out of it, but I can't be adding myself to the list of people who make it. Members of Parliament and Members: all this, who do I pay? So it's paid with the wealth that Catalans and Catalans generate. If we don't want to stretch the arm more than the arm, and if we want to keep the deficit under control, we need to generate as many resources as we want to spend on social policies. This is why a responsible government – I say again: responsible – cannot let go of the whole set of actions that are aimed at promoting the generation of productive economic activity. And this is where the promotion of research and development comes in, to which we will allocate EUR 213 million more than in the last assumptions. Or the funding of universities, for which the assumption contemplates a endowment of 980_millions. In the generation of wealth there also comes to stimulate entrepreneurship, support to industry and businesses and the promotion of employment. To the first two apartments we would dedicate about 80_million euros, and to the policies of occupation, almost 250_million euros. All these better things in our welfare state, we'll make them in a sustainable way. That is to say, we have to worry – I am sure that to all of us – as we pay them now, as we pay them today, but we still have to worry more about how we will pay them in the future, and this is the reason why we would extend the public transport budget by 119_millions, 59_millions of which are to advance, by the way, in the work of the 9th and 10th lines of the Barcelona metro. They believe that, in addition to the favourable immediate environmental impact resulting from an extension of public transport, all this investment has a huge social impact among people with fewer resources. And, also, to ensure sustainability and our model of society, and without being exhaustive, I would like to highlight the EUR 149_million with which we will provide a climate and natural heritage, the EUR 121_million with which to increase energy efficiency policies and the almost EUR 700_million we will allocate the water cycle. Still in this chapter, I want to make reference to what the premise is for protecting the rights of the people and restitution – and say restitution – of the importance that culture deserves. Let me highlight two decisions of this government, of which I think we must all be proud. The first is the creation of the new Department of Equality and Feminisms, which will have 92_million euros to promote politics in this sense. And the second is the increase of 85_million euros for the Department of Culture, which the year 2022 will have 385_millions in total. This is an important and meaningful step forward in our path to two percent of the cultural premise. The culture assumption grows by 28,5_per_cent, which is twice the growth of the derrer presupposition of 2020. To close this chapter of activities, and also the most technical part of my presentation, I want to refer to an aspect that is often left out of the debate on assumptions, but to which, if I may, I give a lot of importance. I refer to the way the Administration is presented before the citizens. In this sense, these assumptions want to deepen into three lines that should be converted into the identity signs of the Government of Catalonia before the people, of our people. The first line is the quality and effectiveness that must characterize the relationship between the Administration and the people it serves. And that goes through things as simple as paying our suppliers on a maximum of thirty days, but also through things as complex as establishing an administrative district that concentrates a large part of the services of public sector entities and departments in a single area. The second line is the evaluation and analysis of our programs and policies. In this sense, I am pleased that these assumptions contemplate an increase of forty-five percent in the contributions of the Generality to Iválua, and that the assumption of the Idescat grows almost four percent and reaches 8,3 million euros. And the third line that has to characterize the image of the Administration before the citizens is the will, the determination to be implacable with the prosecution of the tax fraud. Look, if there's a crime that this counselor finds especially hard, it's the crime that they have to deal with taxes. That is why each of the €85 million we will allocate to the Catalonia Tax Agency will, each of them, be a well-inverted euro. With this, honourable Members and honourable Members, I am coming to the final part of my intervention. During these months of design and accounting, I myself and the entire team of the Department of Economics and History – a part of which today accompanies me here, to the gallery of guests of this hemisphere, and I want to thank them here, from the Faristol, all the work that they have done during all these months–..., so during all this time we have gathered with a lot of people. We've been listening to entrepreneurs, we've been listening to unions, NGOs, mayors, the territorial demands of the people, cities and vegueries. We have also listened to the needs of each councillor and of each councillor. With all these inputs we've made assumptions that we're not satisfied with. We've got some good assumptions ahead of us. But, on the other hand, I have also been able to see that the needs of the country and of each of the territories that the conform exceed with write the resources that we have. Sometimes I was at home in a mood, worried about everything the government companies needed to explain to me – for the sake of movement, for education, for sanitation – and because we can't give them the resources they need..., the resources we have, as I said other times, not the resources we generate, which are much more, and I'll tell you the times that any. If an important part of the wealth that we generate as the country does not evaporate every day before our eyes, these assumptions will be much better. [[Some applause.]] They're good assumptions, counselors and counselors, but I also know perfectly well that they're insufficient – in fact, I think we all know that. But you must also hear, ladies and gentlemen, that the assumptions will still be more inadequate if they do not approve and force us to work for a year on the extended assumptions of 2020. I want to finish this appearance – and therefore be the forty-five minutes that I had proposed – insisting on some ideas that I have not tired of repeating in the last few days. We're in a situation where we can't afford not to have assumptions. From the first day we have expressed our vocation to remain in our convictions and to promote the approval of this law with support or, at least, without the opposition of the forces representing the sovereignist will of most Catalans. But, as I said in this speech, politics – and also the approval of assumptions – claims not only convictions, but also responsibilities. They ask them to do a reflection exercise and to think responsibly about who we are or what you are voting for today. We are voting today whether or not the whole thing thrives or not, and if, therefore, these assumptions can continue their parliamentary process or return to the government because you make some of us. If they vote for the message in totality, they are saying that to the project that we have presented to them there is nothing that can be saved. They are saying, those who vote for totality, that these assumptions are so imperfect that it is better to extend the 2020 ones than not to open a trading period to improve them. All of you – everyone – know perfectly well that this is not so. They know they're good assumptions, assumptions that, objectively, are better than the ones we have now. It's possible and legitimate that you think these assumptions are better. We are willing to listen to them and predispose them to change their minds. If you show us that you have strayed from the law that can be improved, we still have enough time to do so. But, I insist, if they vote for the whole thing, they're telling all the citizens that things that are in this project of presumption can be saved. You all know perfectly well that this is not the case. MPs and MPs of the CUP, the PSC, ask them to think consciously of the meaning of their vote; to think and to do so consciously. They ask them to suspend for one day the tactical considerations or party interests and to vote for what they think is really better at these times for the citizens of Catalonia. These assumptions are green, feminist, socially sensitive assumptions, oriented towards the reactivation of Catalonia and with instruments to help entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs create wealth. Honestly, it would be an act of political irresponsibility to deprive citizens of the opportunity and resources to overcome the economic, health and social crisis that the pandemic has meant. Therefore, if they allow the assumptions to save this first school, it is the government's and councillor's proposal to continue working to the limit of exhausting all possibilities so that the month of generation we have a law that allows us, all of us, to reactivate and transform our country. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.6.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. The reminders that the parliamentary groups that have submitted papers to the totality will now intervene to defend them. They will do so in a maximum of thirty minutes each, following the order of major to minor. And, in this sense, I am telling you that the Parliamentary Group in Comú can have withdrawn its mandate to totality. Once the defense of the items is done, it can be turned against for an equal time, of thirty minutes, or for this same time increased in fifteen minutes more for each additional item. If there has been this turn against, the groups that have defended papers and those who have opposed them can intervene again for a maximum of five minutes. Finally, the groups expressing their position will intervene for a space of fifteen minutes. And, when the debate is over, all the papers will be put to the vote together. Therefore, in order to make the defense of the first task to the totality, on behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar, has the word of the deputy Ms.Alícia Romero. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.7.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, president, vice president, advisors and advisors, deputies and deputies. Allow me to first place agraeixi the counselor's work turned. Making assumptions isn't easy, it's not simple, and more when it's, you know, the first time he does them, since he doesn't see politics, right? And the truth is, I have to tell him that, honestly, there's no such thing as a premiere. Go take it easy, because it seems to me that this is not over, but all the contrary: it has just begun. We are all aware of the difficult moment we are experiencing. We are still immersed in a crisis of the covid-19 pandemic that has caused an economic crisis and a social crisis. Europe has reactivated unprecedented economic mechanisms, and European countries are working to strengthen their policies of economic recovery and social justice. The assumptions – it is obvious – are the most important one, the basic one, to be able to face this delicate situation, the hardest we have suffered in the past decades. That's why the Socialists, president, asked him to make assumptions for the year 2021; 2020 had been designed before the pandemic, and we thought he wanted to make them. Still, he didn't. Actually, they don't have a lot of good credentials here either. Tennels two years later have approved only four assumptions, we carry five presuppositional prorogations..., we will see these for the year 2022. That the assumptions are the most important law approved in this Parliament, that it is the basic instrument of a government, you know perfectly well, that, in addition, it has been an economic adviser. And so much so that you, in the electoral campaign, as the Republican Left candidate, undertook to present, with the investment agreement, an agreement of assumptions. Three times he came here, three times he introduced himself because he was invested in the president, and in the end he brought a presupposition agreement. So alone he brought an investment agreement between the CUP, Juntes per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana; a majority of investment, president, that today is broken. Yes, broken, because the CUP, its priority partner, the partner for whom, moreover, you bet in the first person, has made a statement to the totality to the assumptions, a statement to the totality to the policies that you have to make in the proper times. Look, there's only been six months to get back to an interbank, a large interbank. It seemed that they gave them two years of col, two years of tranquillity to make policies. So, no, six months ago, this has already been unravelled. We can't wait these two years of tranquillity to see a reliable motion, President Aragonès. I, frankly, can't be naive. I don't think you can be naive. It's not the first time this has happened with the CUP. We lived there, we lived there in 2016, and then you were secretaries of economics. We saw how the CUP, in the final vote, voted against and we didn't have any assumptions, that 2016, and we had to extend the 2015 elections. And I want to remind you that then yes, in 2017, the CUP approved them, just those, in 2017. In fact, in all these years of independence majorities has approved more assumptions with the commons than with the CUP. Mrs. Albiach, it was you who was talking about "socio-vergency, isn't it? [[Give me the applause.]] President, we are once again in a state of uncertainty and instability, when all of us should be working together to make policies that allow us to react economically and socially. There's a lot of left-wing investment, it's broken, and we think this isn't a good omen for his presidency. The truth is that it reminds us very much of the situation of 2020, with a broken government, as President Torra had said a little before he was called in elections. And you know what surprises us, president? We're surprised you knew this could happen. Obviously, with a low majority, like I had with the CUP, you could think that this could happen, and, in change, you improvised, you didn't foresee any other scenes. And so what we have to say to you is that what you can't do is improvise with Catalonia and its people. And he did, because until five days ago you didn't start meeting with other groups in the chamber. Up until five days ago, our president Salvador Illa sent him a letter to force him to secure's. Until then, there were no other possible majorities, five days before this debate that we are living today. And, actually, we're surprised that you didn't want to talk to the first group in the chamber, which is the Socialist Group. Among other things, why did we make a June offering, a sincere, honest offer, to try to seek the maximum possible consent to assumptions that must be country rather than block, that must try to add the greatest efforts..., why? , to get out of this economic and social crisis. One I was expecting, wasn't it? I'd expect you to do that. And, in change, you, therefore, have not done so, we do not know whether by irresponsibility or by incapacity. The case is that he hasn't done it in all these weeks – in all these months, even so we can say. You could have looked high and you could have decided that all those groups that had offered you the hand... so you could have taken care of it and you could have searched for that sum of different groups to get as much consent as possible on some assumptions. In fact, you said a moment ago, that you came out to compare: "I would like more assumptions. That's not true, President Aragones. It's not true that he wants this, because we've got his hand and he didn't want to talk to us. If you wanted a large majority assumption, you made sure and ran away from the blocks and ran away from this entity of yours by wanting to keep your majority of the investiture as it is. So look, finally, it's broken up, and finally, it hasn't gotten a larger majority, that's what all the citizens think they want at these moments, that we add up and not divide ourselves and stick to our positions. And who's the scenario leaving us this situation, president? Why is this the question that I think many citizens can do today: who is the scenario that leaves us? A broken majority, which will generate instability and uncertainty for us during our own weeks and months; an instability that is not worthy of Catalonia, and less in these moments that we are living. And, therefore, the question is easy: what do you intend to do, President? What do you think you're doing? With who? What will be your full route from then on? What future awaits us, Catalans? These are the questions you have to answer here. Why is the Socialist Group and Unites for Moving Forward presenting a goal to the totality? So look, we're presenting a statement to the totality so we don't like these assumptions. We've said that since the first day, they're not our assumptions. We have an alternative, an alternative to this country visit that you have. And, therefore, we have submitted papers or papers to the totality for these two reasons: one, because we do not like them; we believe that it is a premise that does not allow economic recovery, but clearly, more than that, that does not guarantee the rights of all those people who need to emerge from this crisis in a situation of equality. And, second of all – and we've already been recriminating him and we'll be following him – for this improvisation, this lack of dialogue, that we think is not a waste in a president at such complicated times as these that we're living, starting, right, the on-the-spot earthquake, isn't it? I don't think he's the one who played. And, therefore, these are two important reasons for making our goal to the totality. Now I'm going to go into a little bit more detail, obviously, because we don't like these assumptions and what we're going to change, and in this sense, what we're probably going to present in the next few days. Miri, he explained to us the councilman turned fifteen days ago, just, uh? , counselor– fifteen days–, haven't given us much time, eh? ...It seems to me that we are going to do a parliamentary procedure more quickly. And you're fine, with the objective that 1 gene has assumptions, but don't forget that we're doing..., we're stressing Parliament again, doing laws to correct, without having the peace of mind that you deserve a law as important as that of assumptions. And you said it was an expansionary assumption – you said it again this late. Miri, "expansive means" that it tends to extend only to expand and occupy more space. Clearly, always depending on what we compare it to. Miri, the presupposition settled in 2020 was 33,371_million euros; that is, the year 2020 we spent 33,371_million euros. Well, what's the assumption that you're planting us for the year 2022? The original, obviously, the proposal: 30,014. That's to say, they're planning on spending 2022 less on what they ended up spending year 2020. So, less resources, this 2022, than you are going to spend 2020. I remember, when we had the debates with the student vice president Aragonès..., he said: "You can't compare initial with initial. No, it's true, but it turns out that when a look at the 2020 initial... we went to incorporate changes in credentials that still make this xifra increase more. So, are there resources for us this 2022 in relation to 2020 to spend? No, we don't. I repeat, settled: 33,371, initial assumption of year 2022, 30,000. Therefore, there are not these 5,000_million euros us. And, therefore, I think that must be said very clearly. And from these 5,000_million euros that you're talking about, which are obviously majors in the year 2020? So mostly – which has been forgotten, Counsellor Giró – came from the transfers of the State. They come from state transfers, yes: from the financing system, they come from the payment... [[remorse of the voice]] – it's very obvious, but they don't say it, and it's good to say things, it's all right – about the debt to be paid..., which the State pays in relation to the infra-financing of the Mossos, the third additional provision, VAT – a debt that the Rajoy government had pending – and a financing system that increases its deliveries to account. And of the other great bloc, which is that of the European foundations. Or, then, out of 5,000, 2,000 and escalating transfers from the State, more – more – and the other 2,100, from the European foundations. I think it's worth saying things. So, what is the generality's effort in these 5,000_millions? So look, head, a very little. And here I use a few words from my esteemed friend David Cid, who just after the presentation of the assumptions already said: « Generality's effort, cap. So I remember them. Miri, the Government of Spain has a few years of making bold and ambitious decisions about the autonomous communities because they can cope with the situation of the covid. I think that's important to say, and they always forget. Spain has approved an extraordinary package of €30,000_million between 2020 and 2021. Catalonia has rejected more than 5,000_million. Then the councilman said: "We have been in debt very little, our debt... And, in turn, the State... clearly, the State has been in debt because the autonomous communities do not do so. And these 30,000_million euros that you've donated to the autonomous communities have been lost have caused the state to be indebted, not the autonomous communities. And do you know where the finance goes up to pay the debt, counselor? – which I did not say, either – of the FLA, of the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, in a very favorable condition, 11,000_million euros that arrive annually from the FLA to the Government of the Generality. That would also be worth saying. And almost 1,000_million euros, 993, that came to help direct businesses. What I have to tell you, Constable Torrent, that, in the face of mismanagement..., we are going for the third call and at the moment we haven't awarded all 993 million, and today is November 22nd. Well, ask for your extraordinary background for the year 2022 in the State, Counsellor Giró. And we say it – the president of my group says it, and I say it too – will always have us at his side to ask for more for Catalonia, always, I would only miss it; but they also ask him to do the same with the assemblies, that the extraordinary cove for the assemblies have eliminated it. And I'll tell you another thing: we ask for more, but we want to know how resources are spent, because more than 5,000 million are many, and we still have a lot of shortcomings. That is why we asked the Union of Accounts for an analysis of how these resources had been spent in the years 2020 and 2021. We wait for it, because, before the demand of more resources, also the demand to be efficient in the management. Miri, for what he does at the press release, the government has proposed – and you said a few weeks ago, counselor – that it would not change taxation, we do not need to increase the fiscal pressure of Catalans. It's true that this year is an exceptional year – we're still in a pandemic – and it's probably a good decision. Now, we would like to have a comprehensive, global, comprehensive reflection on our tax system, that we want it more just and more progressive – a long time ago that we are asking for it. We're the autonomous community that has the highest taxes on us, that we have the highest IRPF for low returns, that we haven't got enough green taxation... that's to say, we've got a lot of folds. And we'd like to..., look, just as the Government of Spain has done now, which has set up a group of experts to analyse taxation, so it would also be good if, in parallel, we did so in Catalonia. We think that's what he'd play. And another entry element... I said tax, and now I'm going to tell him the autonomous financing system. At these times, many autonomous communities are beginning to work on a better financing system, a new funding system expired since the year 2014 – it's said Balears, it's said València, it's said Madrid, it's said Galícia – ; everyone is making a debate, everyone has serious documents to put on the table and improve and negotiate the new financing system, less Catalonia. Once again, Catalonia does not attend meetings, does not participate in such important debates. Look, I'm telling you, counselor– that you were talking about when the situation could be better and when everything will be fantastic–..., look, I'm telling you one thing: I don't know when the situation will be..., when this situation that you ask for will arrive; what I do know is that you have to negotiate and work to manage the reality better. And the reality is that we have an outdated autonomic financing system that needs to be done again, and we want you to get out of empty cadira syndrome and participate in it. Moreover, we are asked by our own autonomous communities: "We need the voice of Catalonia. So, please, they do the work that they do. They are responsible for this and participate in a debate as important as that of the autonomous financing system. Don't let the work do another one, let's do it ourselves. Counselor, president, vagina to the jails where is negotiated the new system of autonomous financing. This is the reality that we have to manage, counselor. This is the reality that you have now incorporated a few months ago, and therefore it is up to us to manage as best as possible. To get into the spending area..., it's not our premise and we don't like it – that's what we've already said – and now I'm going to go into the detail, but before that, let's ask the parliamentary groups for a moment. You know that the year 2017 has changed the Rules of Parliament. This change conditions us very much the task that the parliamentary groups do. What do you mean? In the sense that we can make statements in the presupposition, but without moving parties from one department to the other. What's he doing? That the groups are very limited, that we can't rejuvenate. That is to say, I can't say: "Miri, it's that I'm passing from Justice – which I wouldn't do, but now I've seen it here – "to pose for Education. I can't do this right now. Now I can just move out of the parties. And I'll put the esteemed Research and University Advisor as an example. Now I'm looking at the papers, and I'm saying, "Now what am I doing? Can I get them to a research center, some calerons, to put them at a university? It's ridiculous. You can't make statements in the same department, because it's very complicated. The one thing I'd play is that we could rejuvenate. And here I do ask the parliamentary groups why we can do a reflection and modify the Rules why this is so, as it was before, huh? and, therefore, we do not limit the ability of parliamentary groups to manoeuvre. Miri... And I'm connected to a study that's been published recently on democratic quality, a study that I think the Ostrom Institute with a Gothenburg Institute. This is where we are the autonomous community with less democratic quality, 137 of the 210 European regions; Catalonia, the autonomous community with less democratic quality. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I don't know if this is... hard to hear, huh? [[applause]] Mr. Batet... the dysthena. Says the study that we have a very poor record keeping for what he does to Parliament, huh? , in relation to the Government, very weak and very limited. So look, this, this amendment of the Rules, maybe it would help. Perhaps it would help, this ability of parliamentary groups, to focus more on the policy that is done by the government and to be able to follow better what you develop. I enter the realm of salvation, for us... one of our priorities. We're on a pandemic. I believe that everyone must agree on the need to have a robust and solid system. And let me take advantage of it – just as we're talking about it – the day after one year ago ETA murdered Ernest Lluch, because from here, then, we give him our little tribute. Thanks to him today we have a universal system of salvation. He was the one who designed this law of universal salvation, and thanks to him, despite the details and despite the deficiencies and shortcomings that we may have..., a system that managed to resist this pandemic of covid-19. So, I stayed here our little tribute. [[Greetings.]] Now, our system has suffered extremes; our professionals are at the limit, and they increase inequalities in the health system every day. Miri, the Department of Health is the new one in surging – the new one –; to be a priority... They have moved from seven to 16.8_per_cent in resources for primary care. We were to go to the twenty-five percent, Mrs. Sabater – it seems to me that they signed it with you – so to the 16,8 percent, we are. We need to reinforce the primary, it's evidence. We have not yet opened consultants, primary care centres; we have not yet placed specialists in many of our CAPs. We need to reduce the waiting lists. The delay in diagnostic tests has increased by thirty-night_per_cent. We must invest more in mental salvation; we must not just say it, we must invest in truth. We need to bring out these invisible diseases during the pandemic – the year 2020 has been diagnosed with a twenty-i-dos_per_cent less cancer. Listen to me, we have a lot of work to do. And then the commitments must be fulfilled, President Aragonès. Because..., zero_euros at the Hospital de Tortosa, zero_euros at the Hospital Trueta, zero_euros at the Hospital de Calella and zero_euros at the Hospital del Vendrell. [[Some applause.]] It can't be. We have to put resources into what we have committed ourselves to. In some of these hospitals, compromises in electoral campaign. I'm not saying any more. Look, if they don't do this, if they don't do these things that we're saying and we increase resources for salvation, we'll drive citizens out of the system and generate two speeds: those that can pay each other – that certainly grow exponentially in Catalonia – and those that can't do it. Social and educational policies, I mean, leave no one behind. That's what it's all about: not letting anyone go back. So miri, from the social point of view, some background data that they really want. Rate of population at risk of poverty or social exclusion: 26,3, the highest of the existence of this indicator – 2013. Deu-n'hi-do: 26,3. Rate of children at risk of poverty or social exclusion: 35,9_per_cent, the highest since 2013. Severe material deprivation: 6.2, the highest in Spain. Habitats with humidity problems, lack of light and contamination: 38.6 – a fourteen_per_cent has risen. Honestly, these data should shame us, all of us here. They're astounding – they're astounding – some of these types. It cannot be that you carry a few years of rule and there is no way to capture these data; on the contrary, you continue to grow and continue to grow. And we still feel the worst of all Spain, with these unequal data, that we should all be ashamed of. And if we look at the premise and say: "Well, let's see if these data improve, let's see if these data can be captivated by the 2022 assumption, the most expansive, that the Councillor said Turned... So look, the social protection assumption is smaller this 2022 than the one we spent 2020. Certainly, there is not the €700-million social welfare plan that you promised, President Aragonès – there is no social welfare plan. It retails 35_million euros to the guaranteed income of ciutadania. We ended up with 427_millions, the 2020 liquidated, and in retail 35. It doesn't seem that the situation is improving, according to what these data say. Therefore, the right subject probably grows, and not the other way around, that we are not in a moment, precisely, to resolve or to emerge from any social crisis. Listen to me, the situation is difficult. In the field of education... The pandemic has also increased inequalities in the field of education – in the health field it has already mentioned before. Miri, we are one of the regions of Europe with more school segregation. Our early abandonment is at the divide_per_cent, our format level is the lowest in Europe. I mean, some data that we should also be ashamed of in a country like Catalonia. And, before these data, you dedicate only 2.77 of your assumption to education, a lot of the six_per_cent that marks the law of education in Catalonia – a lot of it. Miri, chapter 1, why before Councilman Giró said: "With chapter 1 we increase... Miri, chapter 1 – very small, eh? , the increase –: 952 endowments. Clearly, you see that, don't you? 952, if you don't compare them with anything, it seems a lot. For 5,470 centres – for 5,470 centres – which correspond – which have done very well for me by my partner Esther Niubó – to 0.17 for each school or institute– 0.17 – it is to say, a given very insufficient, a very insufficient increase in Chapter 1. We have at these times a lot of problems with school segregation, with inclusive school, and you don't have enough professional skills. Nor in the area of the FP, which was another of the shortcomings of this government: 22,000 seats have remained..., twenty-two families have remained without place. Home, they could have made a little effort a little bit bigger in vocational training. So neither. And I left 'but I spent a moment in English, which we had a debate a little while ago in this Parliament. Neither, huh? , no increase in resources to improve the competitiveness of our English students – cap. For compulsory education: neither for children, nor for primary school, nor for secondary school. But, like we don't make them have a B2 level when they get to college anymore, so that's all right. We do not improve the ability of the English, and therefore its competitiveness for a while to enter the labor market. Therefore, you do not guarantee – do not guarantee – the rights of citizens or that everyone can emerge from this crisis with the same opportunities. Economic recovery. If we get in here, disappointment is important, too. Look, I think the pandemic has left us a few lessons; among other things, we need to recover industrial fabric to be more autonomous, not to depend on so many foreign markets. We've seen it. You know, our group president, Salvador Illa, as we've been through, because we couldn't make Catalonia, Spain, masks, respirators... We have to recover powerful, resilient industry. And that's why we bet clearly on knowledge, innovation and technology. But when you look at the assumption, you see that the industry assumption, Councillor Torrent, is 49_million euros, the very assumption of the past few years. The year 2010 was 165_million euros. You are working, debating the national plan for industry; and what will you propose to social and economic agents? The same assumption that the year passed and the previous and the previous? Home, in these moments one would think that the one that touches is, as at least, to duplicate this xifra – as at least – to actually put resources there, here, because every day we are seeing, unfortunately, how they tank companies. Now we know, a few days ago, the relocation of the company Mahle to Vilanova and the Geltrú; 350 families going to the twilight. It's displacement. It's not that tanky; it's displacement, because we can't compete for slots. We have to compete in innovation, technology, knowledge. If we don't bet on it, we won't get out. Do you bet on it? So no. Because it is true that it increases the assumption in universities and research – I do not complete what the national plan says for the society of knowledge... – but, for example, there is no clear bet for innovation, it is not. And we need to locate our knowledge because it's turned into wealth and work places, and we don't. And, therefore, our day: man, maybe less plans and more politics. Because the national plan for the knowledge society, the national plan for industry, the plan for the automotive sector – which we also presented a few years ago –..., and, escort, auxiliary companies like Mahle ended up closing. So, less plans, more politics and more resources. And a tourist tip, which is always a controversial issue in this Parliament. Miri, tourism also re-ueixen, in the presupposition, in 15_million euros: it goes from 60 to 45_million euros. Well, taking into account how tourism has been affected, and that we certainly need to make an important reflection on how it adapts to our times, not to this pandemic crisis, but to the global challenges that we have ahead, so it does not seem very reasonable, that we reduce the assumption for the tourism sector. And lastly, decarbonization, which is an opportunity for the economic impulse – and what we say, and what we are aware of – but it does not seem to be a strategic vector in this proposal of assumptions. I, again, lost opportunity. The European Union states that the assumptions must have a climate perspective of thirty_per_cent. Catalonia should multiply the assumption that we will be presented – by god – in order to achieve this objective. We have 1,270 megawatts, we don't have to have twelve thousand; that's to say... by God. Obviously, it seems clear we're not getting there, here. And then we have a law decree, you know, of the impulses of the renewables, that they have already been asked by the employers and the sector that it passes as a bill to be able to improve it, because, if not, Catalonia is condemned to be the one to be among the renewables not only of Spain, but of Europe. And, therefore, in this, or we actually make a strong bet with planning and with the work that I do, or, frankly, we won't get out of it. And the last: economic reactivation. Do not trade with projects that improve the generation of wealth and jobs in the territory, to improve territorial cohesion and to improve, also, our development beyond the metropolitan area. And we say so in relation to the Circuit de Catalunya, the Winter Games, the Recreation and Tourism Centre of Vila-Deca and Salou... Finally, we hope that they do not market with the jobs, so important for Catalonia. President, it's true – you said it the other day – that we don't agree on the country model, it's obvious; but the hardest thing is that we don't know who its model is. And, finally, the Agonic Pact to save this premise, president, notes the opening of a new political scene in Catalonia. The latent rupture of the Government's si is manifest. The improvised agreement, at the last minute, sends to the storyteller – which already begins to be very full – the majority of the investiture. The current situation, President, does not invite us to optimism. With you these six months you have brought us governance, instability, political tactics of short-sightedness and even shortsightedness, I would say. And that, honestly, worries us and saddens us, and a lot, we give it to you sincerely. It's really hard, huh? To predict what can happen in the next few months, and we've left some questions in the air, but when it starts badly, it ends badly. Before this, too, there is: the attitude of the first group of the chamber, in the name of what I am talking about today, will remain unalterable, because the country, lacking a government that is not on the rise, needs now more than ever an alternative; an alternative that provides Catalonia with good governance, a stable, united and long-term look. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.8.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.9.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies... these are not the budgets that Catalonia needs. Neither will they be effective, nor are they designed with balance, nor realism, nor common sense. It is a Frankenstein document to satisfy communists and the CUP's anti-system. Today we have again found that the parents of these budgets are gentlemen who do not bet on respecting the constitutional order nor on legal certainty or political stability. Thus it is impossible to contribute to economic recovery, attract new investments and maintain companies based in Catalonia. They are the economic transformation of an aimless political project that puts at the center of its priorities the idea of breaking Spain, a shameful amnesty and self-determination. The Catalan Government is doing everything it can to continue to sow uncertainty, conflict and insecurity from the greatest institutional disloyalty to Spain. It is a contradiction in its terms to say that they are for economic recovery as they continue to stir up the stellate, the territorial conflict, and continue to promise trips to a non-existent Ithaca. Counselor, the economy demands certainty and a stable political framework, quite the opposite of what you do when you raise your fist to the cry of republic and independence. But it is that, moreover, they are budgets designed, in origin, to satisfy the chaos, disobedience and philosophy of the decline demanded of them by the CUP. It is unbearable nonsense that the economic policy of the Generalitat takes six years depending on an anti-capitalist and anti-system party like the CUP. As you have seen in the first person this weekend, we were right that we told them it was a dangerous, reckless, unsustainable and masochistic irresponsibility to be in the hands of those who want to destroy the system from the system just at such a decisive time for our history. And it is also very worrying that half of the government, Junts, continues to try to support the government's policy by supporting itself in the UPC, training enchanted with the « the worse, the better. Really, make them look at it. It is very serious, with an amendment to the whole of the table, that they have not been able to automatically and decisively dismiss the CUP as a medium-term reference partner in the Government. You keep trying to be nice to them to play with them over the next few months. Counselor, early-morning people do not understand that the Catalan economy depends on people who aspire to bring down the foundations of the system and our economy. The hallucinating people who spend the day begging for the support of an anti-everything political group, who, on top of it, gives you pumpkins and laughs at you. The summary of their great cupaire bet has been: they beg until the last minute their support; as it goes wrong, they rush into the arms of the communists, who blackmail them with the budgets of the State and of the City of Barcelona; the PSC continues to cry uncomfortably because it does not participate in this unfortunate spurt; Junts enters into anger; the government partners stab themselves with light and tachygraphs for the stupefaction of any citizen with a minimum of common sense, and in Catalonia follows the vodka without knowing what they have agreed with the Puemites. Regrettably, the image you're giving, Mr. Counselor. How little seriousness... How little has lasted the 52 percent legislature; it is that not even six months, has lasted the 52 percent super-legislature. Not a single budget together, they've been able to approve. You are the living image of disorder, improvisation and political childishness. Between the show of the budgets that we have seen these days and the sanatorium that they mounted with the expansion of the airport, they have already been doctoral in political folly. It's you, Mr. Counselor, tomato and loin slugs. The negotiation of these budgets has been a schoolyard, a real spurt. What a circus, gentlemen; what a circus you've set up. [[Some applause.]] After talking about who and how, I'll talk about what. In addition to being an account designed to satisfy the extreme separatist left, these are based on lying. They are based on an overly optimistic macroeconomic picture, which omits too many worrying symptoms of the Catalan economy. They are designed to keep an incompetent and divided government in power from the minute one of the legislature. They are trying to generate expectations of a spectacular economic rebound, which will not occur after the biggest fall in GDP in Europe in the year 20. The macro variables they present do not accurately reflect the impact on the economy of the depletion of raw materials and intermediate goods, the sharp rise in energy prices, inflationary pressures, the slowdown in credit or possible interest rate increases. In the document they assume that we will move next year around 2_per_cent. It's a tremendously optimistic bet. We're at 5.2 today. More and more specialists and analysts are saying that this can be consolidated over the coming months. If that is so, of course, the accounts, their forecasts, will fall, will fall by themselves. On economic growth, also two reflections: it is not true, as you have been telling us for the last few weeks, that Catalonia has been growing above the Spanish average since the year 17, because it is not the case – therefore, there you must adjust, Mr. Counsellor. And secondly, he says we're gonna grow to 6.4. Well, anyway, we've been reporting this for days, haven't we? ; this forecast is out of reality. All analysts' forecasts are being corrected downwards. Brussels did it last week, for the Spanish economy; it cooled the prospects and brought them to 5.5. And that doesn't mean that the pandemic period will get complicated again. Mr Councillor, if Brussels and other analysts are right, they are lowering the growth prospects of the Spanish economy and, therefore, Catalan, they are going to drop the collection, they are going to increase the expenditure, they are going to activate the automatic destabilizers, they are going to increase the public deficit and therefore the debt, with which they fall all the objectives that you set in these budgets. Nor do they, from our point of view, use European funds and this injection of more than EUR 2,000 million to try to substantially reduce public debt with own resources, do they? We start from the current 37.1 GDP debt. We are currently the autonomous community of Spain with the most public debt. According to the Banco de España, the latest published data, those of the second quarter, are 81,862_million, plus 1,000..., almost 1,500_million owed by the public enterprises of the Generalitat. We are also on the podium in relation to GDP, debt weight in relative terms, 37.1, as I said before, and we are the second in relative terms. Frankly, it is not credible that goal that you set, to go down to 33,3 with what you have set us up in these budgets. The Generalitat de Catalunya is still unable to finance itself in the markets and needs help from the « evil Government of Spain to refinance its debt and deficit. They put it in writing in the draft budgets; he said: "With the current situation of the financial markets, it is not possible to formalise nine import operations sufficient to meet the debt write-offs and finance the deficit. Therefore, the collaboration of the State is essential to obtain these funds through the funding of autonomous communities. In other words, Catalonia alone cannot be financed. What you don't have..., must be the only case in recent history, in short, that I know of, and if there is another, then it would be good if you told me..., must be the only case in which the self-named "oppressed people" is financed by the oppressor people. It's a very weird thing, isn't it? , the one that happens in Catalonia. On the public deficit, since there are statistics Catalonia always closes with deficit, systematically. That is to say, we have billion-dollar revenue from Europe, also from the state, and you continue to raise that 0.6 deficit, that 1,487_million deficit, with which you want to close the next budget year. I wanted to ask you: do you have an allergy to budgetary surplus, to budgetary balance? We always have to end up with a new deficit, which ends up becoming a debt and ends up becoming a financial expense, interests that are a real barbarity. Don't you realize that paying 1,000_millions a year in financial expenses, between the Generalitat as a whole and public enterprises, is a real barbarity, and that with those 1,000_millions_of_euro you can do a lot of things? Take seriously the possibility of amortizing debt, as any sensible and reasonable administration does. Also... well, we talked about this the other day, didn't we? I was talking about that... anyway, the usual. You have started your speech... "Of course, if we were independent, then we would have a lot of things here at last: much more money, more infrastructure... finally, more resources. Well, anyway, these are theories, aren't they? ; are theories and, moreover, very little serious and very little contrasted. I already told him the other day, Mr. Giró..., I already reminded him of the study of transport infrastructures that the Airef recently carried out, where it makes meridianly clear that Catalonia was the region of Spain that most nominal gross investment had absorbed in the period 85-18, with a 15.8_per_cent. He was also talking about the average investment per inhabitant report, which also..., shows Catalonia above the average, huh? And we are the autonomous community that also concentrates more net stock of infrastructure, with 17_per_cent. Nor does it make sense, Mr Giró, for you to be continually in the canteen of 'Spain steals from us, and finally the hole in the east of autonomous financing. Years ago you invented that figure of 16,000_million_de_euros, which you calculated with the data of the 14th, taking into account the data of the 11th and only taking into account one of the four possible methods to calculate that supposed deficit, that of neutralized monetary flow. And you now... well, now you have raised it, from the 16th you have brought it to 20, to 21,000_million_euros. I mean, I guess next year they'll be talking about 23,000 million. Anyway, as the politics mark the house is constantly generating victimism and complaining because Spain – that Spain that, I insist, as I said before, is the one that is financing you, eh? – ill-treats you, then, you will continue with that canteen. From our point of view it has no economic rigor, it is a sandstone and only serves to generate chasm, snoring and separatist victimism brand of the house. We, since VOX, believe that these budgets will not help to reverse the relative fall of foreign investment and mitigate the unstoppable deterioration of the business sector in Catalonia. We do not see in these budgets a clear and serious bet to reindustrialize Catalonia. Economic decline is a fact, and the government leads nothing, too. Some data. I know you don't like us to remember them, but it's okay, from time to time, because you omit all those data that you find unsympathetic or that doesn't fit your story of things. Since October 1, 17, 6,682 companies have left Catalonia, many of them listed, such as yours, which you represented, and last week we found out that you were precisely the person who signed the request that the Box could leave Catalonia. In what we have been doing since 2021, 741 companies have gone. It is a process of constant impoverishment. With the process, Catalonia's weight fell on the total of Spain in attracting foreign investment. We're still a long way from that thirty-percent of 2016. In 2020 foreign investment fell in Catalonia by 22.7_per_cent. In the first six months of the year we only take the nineteen percent of foreign investment. You can't tell me you're doing things right. It does not make sense, because the data finally show that there are many gaps and many elements to be corrected, if you want to present yourself as rulers who are making a serious economic policy. And so it's very difficult to create jobs. According to the latest EPA, we are talking about 426,000 unemployed. It is true that it is going down, fortunately; of course, we are not at the peak of the pandemic, but it is that the rates of youth unemployment, structural unemployment and long-term unemployment are extraordinary, yet. We can't settle for having 400,000 standing by and saying we're doing it right. At this point, I think you're sinning, there, of self-congratulation, and I don't think it touches. And I believe that much more powerful employment policies had to be promoted. That is what VOX is going to defend through the parliamentary debate and through the amendments that it will present these days. It also speaks... well, it's just that this is amazing... I have read this morning – and if not, you correct me – that you have agreed these budgets with Podemos. That We may have asked for two or three more taxes and that... And you think you haven't made any reference, but, well, I learned from La Vanguardia – that's Catalan politics, one of the things happens, sometimes, from the press... Will there be more taxes or will there be no more taxes? Is that breaking your promise, the one you made, of 'not going to increase taxes with this budget, 'not going to increase tax pressure? Do you not realize that we already have enough fiscal pressure? That we already have more than fifteen own taxes, plus all these that you have just agreed this morning, between cut and cut, in a bar, while negotiating this budget – two or three more taxes than before yesterday you considered to be absolutely useless and that they did not help, precisely, the recovery? We wanted to know that – we wanted to know that – if it is not enough for the Institute of Economic Studies to continue to place Catalonia at the head of regulatory fiscal pressure in Spain, they want more. Do they consider it logical that they assume, on top of that, that they will enter 588_million more, as if it were a great achievement, at the expense of citizens and businesses in Catalonia? Do you not realize that this is not done by any government in the world, this of assuming that ‘I will create more taxes, I will collect more and I will evict more of your pocket? That doesn't make anyone but a ruler in Catalonia. Is it true what the draft budget says, that they are going to charge 160_million for CO2 emissions tax, as they have put it? Because in the liquidation of the budget we're working..., we're seeing it's around 60. Is it that 100 kilos, 100_million, have been invented in the revenue section? It's one thing I'd like to clarify. Just as the famous 500_millions have also been invented, which say that ‘the Spanish Government will someday give them to me, but perhaps it won't give them to me, and so on, but in any case we will also increase the budgets by 500_millions_of_euros, won't we? Anyway... Or what will be received for the compensation of the Mossos d'Esquadra, which even Airef himself is saying to him: "I doubt that the Catalan government will receive that money. And they put it in writing, and if you want, I'll show it to you. Mr Giró, you should get in their head that taxing families and businesses has terrible consequences for economic prosperity: they reduce our competitiveness, savings rates, our tax bases and business investment. Its fiscal voraciousness favors the relocation of enterprises, talent and employment; separatist fiscal hell in the midst of social, health and political crisis sows more unemployment, misery, poverty, debt, destruction of enterprises and decline. It seems to us frankly, finally, worrying that... you've made a reference, haven't you? In his speech a few minutes ago. You don't have much in mind, do you? , the principle of an administration, a competition. We take advantage of this budgetary debate to remind you that a simpler, more agile administrative and legal framework must be promoted and red tape reduced in order to also contribute to market unity. It's not about spending for spending – then comes this competition to see who spends more – but spending better. There is no rationality in their approaches; putting 1_million in Ivàlua, so..., frankly, it doesn't make you change the model, does it? And gamble without complexes, right? , for public-private collaboration. I want to tell you something else. Force or do not force Madrid – because we are always in these terms – we think it is good to comply with the spending rule. We think – and it is obvious, by the figures that present us – that you do not, eh? We are not in favour of allowing public expenditure to grow above the reference rate of GDP growth in the medium term, and it is clear that this gives you equal opportunities. You're firing structural spending on short-term income, and that's dangerous. That is dangerous for the financial stability of the Generalitat in the medium term. That compromises the public services that Catalans will receive in four, five, ten or twenty years. We must be much more serious about accountability and public finances. You continue to increase and increase political spending. They do not eliminate state structures – or « chiringuitos, as is commonly called – that continue to foster division and hatred among Catalans. And not only that, but, on top of it, they create sixteen more chiringuitos and so put it in their memory. We continue to lead the number of para-government entities in Spain, we suffer the most winning politicians in Spain, with the government with the most councils in Spain, and they continue to devote hundreds of millions to indoctrination and to feeding hispanophobia. For VOX, as long as you maintain this elephantic political industry, any tax you charge is an abuse, an immorality and a harassment, however sustainable it may be. These are budgets that are more geared to meeting the 2030 agenda than to addressing the main problems of Catalans. They are more concerned about satisfying the new bosses of feminist lobbies and 'ecolojetas' than about helping families who are experiencing the worst. [[Greetings.]] It is no coincidence that the departments that grow the most in percentage terms are that of Feminisms – a ninety_and_nine_per_cent – and that of Climate Action – which grows a thirty_and_four. By the way, it seems to us to be a solemn stupidity to present budgets with a gender perspective, an ecosuperguay perspective. [[Greetings.]] Mr. Turned, even propaganda has a limit, which is the sense of reality. VOX is not resigned to our fellow citizens living worse for the sake of a supreme good such as the fight against climate change or chimeric independence, infinite distance from the philosophy of decline. They live outside reality. I'll give you some data, some references. We find it amazing that you allocate six times more to climate fund-raising resources to avoid that imminent apocalypse of humanity that you invent than to entrepreneurial support programs. It seems to us out of logic that 465_millions are spent on actions aimed at mitigating climate change, knowing that 34,4_per_cent of the population lives without being able to cope with unforeseen expenses. It is very difficult to understand that 92_million_of_euros are being spent on gender chiringuitos, with more than 73,000 people waiting for their dependency to be recognized. We maintain the unnecessary regional councils – which cost us more than 600_million_of_euro – and the million-dollar subsidies to the unions as we continue to be the region with the most patients on the health waiting lists. They never find resources to help patients with ALS, but they do to maintain the pensions of former presidents. They maintain 243_millions of expenditure to maintain TV3 while 17,500 elderly people are still waiting for a geriatric residence. They dedicate hundreds of millions to rewriting history while food banks don't give enough. It is not understood that they spend nearly 40_million_of_euro on political propaganda in their related media while the poverty risk rate is 26.3_per_cent. We cannot support budgets that target 28_million_and_average to internationalize the separatist challenge through a council such as Afers Exterior – which, from our point of view, should be automatically eliminated – while ninety_ thousand Catalans remain on official protection housing waiting lists. We need to understand what the real priorities of Catalans are. It is a shame, Mr. Giró, that they continue to squander public money in Diplocat and its eighteen embassies while more than twenty-thousand children study in barracks. It is amazing that they dedicate 5_million to doubling Catalan films or 47 to 'normalize us politically and linguistically while there are 105,000 families in Catalonia without income collectors. It saddens them to spend thousands and thousands of euros on launching satellites into space while thousands of Catalans do not dare to turn on the heating. It is not normal that 42_million_de_euros be used to pay more than five hundred high trust charges to the finger as Catalonia continues to lead all ranks of insecurity and crime. It is a waste of more than EUR 50 million for wards and extolls, whose majority of applicants are menas of Maghreb origin, and only EUR 34 million for general youth policies. It's nonsense that they spend 39,3_million_euro to help developing countries while thousands of Catalans, according to their own data, suffer from malnutrition. [[Greetings.]] We find it amazing that they only allocate 49_million in direct aid to industrial support programmes, as the spokesman for the Socialist Group said earlier, while they allocate 92_million to the Council of Feminisms. It's just that these are your priorities. It is that they have forgotten to support the birth, of the numerous families, of real actions of silence to mitigate the demographic winter suffering Catalonia and the problems of the empty Catalonia. They've forgotten about our farmers, our farmers. They still do not make a serious bet for advancing mental health, in the bucodental, and for increasing social and health residential spaces for Alzheimer's patients. More budgetary ambition is lacking in the rehabilitation programmes of neighbourhoods and historic centres of many villages in Catalonia. They only invest 20_million_of_euros for this task, and, frankly, this is a misery, taking into account the very high degree of degradation of many of them. They're still... they're not meeting the funding needs of the city halls. It is regrettable that they only allocate 125_million in direct aid to tourism or 126 for trade, sectors that have been severely weakened since the pandemic. It also affects us – it is that there are so many items in which there is a shortage of resources –..., we regret that the budget increase remains short to strengthen vocational training, the network of official language schools, telework, ensure an adequate technological transfer of knowledge between training centres, universities and business. There are many things you can do. And all these issues are fundamental to curb the indisputable spiral of decay, the decline and impoverishment of Catalonia. Therefore, Mr. Counsellor, these are not good budgets. There's a lot to improve on. And many of the principles on which these budgets are based..., which, frankly, we would have liked to know a little more..., finally, with more solvency what they have agreed with their new, let's say, members of the legislature or the next four or five months, well, that here things are going like this. But there are many things that can be improved. The mediocrity, the sectarianism, the expenditure without control, the betrayal of Spain, the lack of institutional loyalty, the irresponsibility, have presided over the elaboration of this chaotic project of budgets, loaded with too much propaganda and illusionism. For those reasons that I have just given you, we have already announced to you that, as you can see, VOX is unthinkable to support you. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.10.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Guanyar, Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.11.0	Well, thank you, President. Good late – I would say –, president and vice president, but they are not there. Before starting with the presupposition debate, I wanted to start by doing a preview, by doing a preview of how we started today. Today we started the day before the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. In fact, in the last few years we have started a lot of days at the gates of justice to accompany activists and companies facing trials for the defense of fundamental rights, civil rights, political rights and social rights. In fact, there were several, accompanying the councillor Romeva and Aleix Villatoro, and there were said, too, accompanying the invisible, the 30-generation lawsuits, the lawsuits of the failed investiture of Carles Puigdemont. This morning we accompanied our companion Pau Juvillà. And today, from our parliamentary group, we want to thank him for his commitment to defending freedom of speech and denouncing the repression of the State. Thank you, Pau. [[Some applause.]] This is a part of the country we have, but the whole picture of the country goes much further. The pandemic has shown the contradictions of almost half a century of neoliberalism and globalization in the countries of the capitalist center, and our country is obviously no exception. Years of neoliberal policies have brought us to the current situation. At the beginning of the pandemic, the systematic retailing in primary care and public health and a health system built from Catalonia's health order law, which represented the creation of a mixed public-private model to manage this public health system, resulted in poor detection of the first cases. More generally, the col·lapse in intensive care demonstrated the lack of effect of a health system that has been pre-characterized re-retailed. But beyond sanitation, the pandemic has also shown the fever of some societies every time more tertiary and deindustrialized. And in our country we cannot draw the industrial reality of the past thirty years if we do not take into account how the European Union – at that time, the European Economic Community – imposed on us the realization of four great productive activities, and on this we have based all the activity during the thirty years: tourism, construction, agri-food and automotive. In times of crisis in these industries, the country is getting stuck. This assumed that a good part of the heavy industry and the public industry had to be eliminated. It is important to make it clear that our lack of productive sovereignty does not only see from the hands of territories that do not have regulatory powers in industry, but that it is determined by the European Union, this European Union that we are celebrating now that we are giving money to change of things; but, as everyone knows, in this country there is no change of things. Our country has ceased to bet on a powerful industrial policy over the past few years. And of those decisions, these evils that we live now. The tourism and hospitality sector in the pandemic fell economically, while for another group, we suffered from the supply of industrial sub-administrations. Now, with much more relaxed mobility restrictions, a crisis of sub-administration continues that threatens various productive sectors. This persistence of the sub-administration crisis indicates that the problems of capitalism are deeper than the virus's suffocation, and that, therefore, the changes and proposals to make must be focused on reversing systemic dynamics, and not on reproducing imposed inertias. And it's in this mark that we need to read the poor people of this country. According to the Idescat, the risk rate of poverty or social exclusion in Catalonia has practically increased three points: more than one of every four people living at risk of poverty. But if we dig a little deeper into this data, all the components of this tax went into 2020, they went into comparison with the previous year. And it's no longer just that the poor increase, but it also increases inequality. Twenty per cent of those with the most admissions accumulated if ever the one who entered the most underprivileged. One more time, before the crises, the old ones, the old ones, who accumulate while others are being taken to the poor once more. And to these figures of the poor we must add the other great emergence of the country: housing. The eighty_per_cent of the logger's lllars spend more than thirty_per_cent of their tickets to pay for it. In fact, fifty_per_cent of the dollars go between thirty and fifty_per_cent to pay the logger. And if this is what we add to the price increase every day of the basic sub-administrations, we see more than fifty per cent of the population, just to get a rest and water and light, you already have trouble getting to the end of the month. This is where we get to the proposals that we make and what we do, and that we continue to do, because, despite the technology and the liberal paradigm that we say no, there is an alternative. There is an alternative that passes through the sobriety of the people in front of the capital financing mafios that tries to squeeze us in all phases of life. And sovereignty is an intrinsic key element for advancing in a future to the service of life, to advancing in a future to the service of life and the social majority of the country that conforms to the popular classes. They say the country needs assumptions. What we are saying is that the country needs profound political changes to face up to the collective challenges we have. By more assumptions than ever before, without new policies and transformative policies, we will not improve the lives of the working people of the country. Without allowing macro-projects to stand back, without recovering outsourced public sanitation, without pushing public banks or without pushing public housing, the assumptions only serve because everything goes on and on. If we pass what happens with these assumptions and with the assumptions of the Barcelona Assembly, we will continue to struggle to build a political, social and economic alternative so that this country will definitely take over the kingdoms of its future. And that's why we're planting five big engines that need to be used to drive this shift. The first, the impulse of the country's industrialization, so that we can demarcate from an economy that only revolves around real estate speculation and low-quality tourism. Yes, I'd like a national pact for industry, but I'd like to go further. It is a national plan of reindustrialisation that allows us to return to a productive economy and generate quality jobs, starting the necessary ecological transition, producing what we need from criteria of sustainability and territoriality. According to the engine, the impulse of the public sector, in three camps: teaching, sanitation and social services. Win land at oligopolis with public energy and public banking. Water, energy, transport and telecommunications cannot be in private hands, because we already see what they do every day, because they cannot be where economic benefits prioritize people. But it is also the impetus of a public industry; it is not only a national plan of reindustrialisation, but it is also a strategic public industry that responds to the challenges facing the country and the planet. A third engine is that of housing. This country must be a right-to-habitat bunker, a country free of denunciations. And here we have a movement, the movement for housing, which is strong, stalled and which has placed this right at the center of Catalan politics. He didn't go to market with this right. And that this government and this Parliament stay and is put to the people's service that every day you see it done away from home, and that is put to the people's service of this movement, which is now the very one that is guaranteeing the right to housing more than public policies. Fourth engine, universal basic income, as a way to redistribution of wealth. In a country where 20_per_cent accumulates six times more than the 20_per_cent it collects less, redistribution of wealth through universal basic income is indispensable, but also by taxes or a truly progressive tax system. And, finally, a five-engine, make a clear and determined front to the climate emergency. And in that, counselor, they carry weeks of propaganda. And we said, these aren't expansionary assumptions or transformers. The half of the increase of the premise responds to the incorporation of the Next Generation funds, which allow to increase the investments in a punctual way, but not in a structural form, and that it seems that, again, they will arrive conditioned to the heights of austerity. Even Poland, on TV3, explains it, and explains why everyone understands it. European foundations are also conditioned on our future. The rest of the increase in assumptions is a trend increase, a trend increase in spending, which does not respond to new policies, but to the increase in the cost of providing certain services, such as social services or sanitation, because the index of poor people is rising and, therefore, there are more people who need social services. Or because the cost of drugs is rising, or because we're in a pandemic that has collapsed the health care system, and so there's a delay in detecting disease. And that's what you're well aware of. And, as I said, we do not deny the importance of the assumptions in public administration, but the figures presented for the government respond, for a band, to the consolidation and continuation of the policies and the receipts that have led us to the social scene that we have described before, continuing with those of 2020. And, on the other hand, they are responding to the consolidation of a triple institutional stability pact today that is even more obvious. To propose tactics between assumptions of Barcelona, the Generality and the State is to deny this city. So little is worth, that we think they're change money? So no. Barcelona is much more than that – does it sound like it? We have tried; we have worked hard and will continue to work until the last minute because these assumptions respond to a common horizon of social and national change, and respond to the transformation will announced by the president in his investment speech. And yes, as a result of these efforts, today the Government presents assumptions that increase more than twice the number of parties allocated to housing policies. But unfortunately, and by paraphrasing the companies of the Union of Lodgers, beyond words and rhetoric, the proposal for government housing policies is far from the housing policy report that has been projected in the last few months and does not represent any change that allows me to see a shift in policies that have been applied and that have not given the expected results. More public housing park and less public money in private hands. These assumptions, also the fruit of this effort, speak in an embryonic way of universal basic income, even so, of the need to redistribute the wealth it gave before; all just in an embryonic way, and without addressing those changes that must allow the basic income to be accompanied by fiscal policies that actually address what this redistribution is. And, finally, these assumptions begin to draw the first passes towards public energy, yes, but that, Mr. Giró, beyond the ball of headlines of these last days, you know that it does not represent even 0.03_percent of the 38,139_million euros that conform to the Generality assumption – 0.03_percent of the total assumptions. We didn't come here to fool people. And before we said "wrongly" and "wrongly" because we would want this government to have taken another course, and therefore present some other assumptions. But the government decided to introduce them on November 9 with a legitimate right. We had given a starting point, but they did not want to follow the path to a shared social and national horizon. The government, in our view, has suspended its first semester, and has suspended it in order to allow itself to be hardened by the dynamics of the "socio-virgins" of all life. Those four revolutions that are promised in the investiture have been carried away by the fetuses, which have not returned to the revolutions. You, President, were talking about progress, but the progress – and now it's not, the Vice President – are no more airports or ports; the progress, Mr. Counsellor, are no more hotels and casinos like Hard Rock; the progress is not a winter Olympic game in the midst of a climate emergency, and the progress, Councillor Torrent, is not to pursue money in the sense that it is the Circuit de Catalunya. Progress is not to deploy all these outdated, unsustainable, and pre-characterizing macro-projects in the life of the country when it comes to dealing more urgently than are ever vital issues such as housing and sanitation. And what cannot be is that, in this case, the answer follows: « There is no margin. But you also spoke of a democratic revolution, and there is no better democratic revolution than a referendum, with permission or without permission, because persisting on this path is the way we get to independence. And in the democratic arena, too, there is either the insertion or the inscription of removing the disgraceful accusations of the Generality against independenceists. And I look at you, President, and at you, Counselor, because now it's your competence. Most of them – and we saw it last week – are supported under fictional reports built for the moves. There is enough to do the brute work of the State and the powers of the State. And there's enough to do the rough work of the speculators and the backsplashes that are leaving us unattended; enough to send the police to decoys. The movement for housing denounced a few weeks ago several fines worth 200,000 euros; at these heights we are talking about 300,000 euros. We said it before: that this government is standing at the side of the housing movement, because it is the one who is now facing the emergence. And the feminist revolution... the feminist revolution cannot be reduced to rhetoric. We want to be able to abort the public health system without our seafaring; we want to be able to abort without anyone doing business with our body. It's our right and I want to make it complete. And, finally, the green revolution is to ask that the green taxes that this country has already granted and that it approved 2017 be applied? The green revolution is to make a deployment of renewables late, poorly, disorderly, and make it the arm of the very ones who are stealing from us at the price of the light? And let us insist, now that the vice president has returned: there are no green airports and there are no winter Olympics in the green Pyrenees. You're lying. If we believe in climate change, we must act accordingly, but not only: we must do so with all the consequences. A few weeks ago..., in fact, last week, Vice President, you said that this was the "legislature" of the rollers or rollers. This country needs more and better public transport, yes – this is evidence for the thousands of workers who each morning see their particular crossroads to get to their places of work – but if this did not accompany a pulse to the State, a pulse to the State and its powers, Vice President, that is not defending the majority of fifty-two per cent. You and your party – your party – talk a lot about preserving fifty-two percent. Who abandons fifty-two_per_cent is the one who agrees to postpone the expansion of the Prat airport with Foment; who abandons fifty-two_per_cent is the one who supports the government that wants to suspend our housing laws; who abandons fifty-two_per_cent is the one who is working for the interests of the employers, that October 1 is against the will of the people and to whom the people planted face. President, the investiture was a starting point, it was not a point and end. It can't be that, months after his government negotiated to the bass what was a minimum agreement. It was a starting point and it wasn't a ending point. And it is not going to be obviating the decisive: to build a clearly independent horitzo. The legislature also goes along with this. And an incis in relation to what was the investiture and the starting point, because often there are people who are the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the Thanks to that agreement, all of you are members of the government. All of you, thank you for that deal. Without that agreement, there would be no such government. Don't use it to travet between you as you carry your whole life when you're interested. It's not dedicate to use that deal to pull over the head when you're interested. Your problems are your problems. They don't use us to solve their disagreements. In this beginning of the legislature, the Government has taken the path of continuism, as I said. Wear mesas to tell you. I've warned you. We have said this in public and in private, repeatedly: macro-projects, stagnantly without any type of time and alliance with the employer and the Socialist Party. And on this path, on the path of the assumptions of macroprojects and tourism, we will not accompany them. Now, you have no doubt: if you put the Generality next to the people and put at the time self-determination, there will be. It's not just accompanying, it's motoring, if it's necessary. The assumptions of macro-projects and tourism, no; the government serves the people and with independence, yes. That was the starting point, and we'll work there. I, to go to the end – to go to the end – let me go 50 years back. That I go back fifty years to recover the words of a referent, a referent in the struggle for the independence of our people and for the achievement of a just society. By a referent, in the last few years, used in a recurring way, however, for many years of his life, oblivion and vilificacy. I wanted to retrieve some words from Lluís Maria Xirinacs. He said fifty years ago in 1970: "They demand self-determination for the Catalan Countries. Andalusians, bats, galleys, aragonese, castellans, each with its own language and problems, all who have come to this land to live there and to work: we have the duty to get out of our childhoodism and to assume the full responsibility of our life. So that the factory is directed by the workers; that the university is directed by the students and the teachers; that the bar, the municipality, the region, are directed by those who inhabit them. I think the unions are still in labor. As well as public services – banking, sanitation, trade, housing, land, information – are controlled by the people that are not the users. Why are the Father Capital and the Father Military and the Mother Church and the Mother Television the only ones who know what's right for the Poble Child? Self-determination and self-management mean this: that all the people have access to the government of things that are of the people. Socialist Catalonia. The living force of the earth united with the fame of righteousness of the working world. We don't ask for anything else. Man: Man: Man: Man: And back to what I said before. In continuism, in the assumptions of macro-projects and tourism, they will not find us there; in the Generality and the Government at the service of the people and at the time of self-determination, they will be there. For the moment, assumptions of macro-projects and tourism. No, we're not. We'll keep working to be there. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.12.0	Thank you. I, then, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.13.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Well, first of all, I want to start this intervention by making clear something that I am very interested in, which is the fact that at our public debate, at our present, where we have the debates that the Catalan society gives us the responsibility to do in this forum, which is the Parliament of Catalonia, is normalized by a number of people as terrible as Mr Xirinacs, who came to say things like he was an enemy of the Spanish State and a friend of the ETA. Well, I think claiming a character like Xirinacs demonstrates the mentality of who is currently going to be one of the key players in Catalan political life. On the other hand, before this little thing, I wanted to begin my intervention by claiming a figure who was precisely instrumental for the unit of Espanya, for the continuity of Catalonia between Espanya, for the human integration that represents our project suggested of life in common that said Ortega, that he is a figure of death that yesterday came to be completed a year ago, that is Mr Ernest Lluch, who was minister of the Government of Espanya, economist, historian, a dialoguer, an inclusive person, a person who had great sights and who was able to clear solutions for Catalonia and for the conjunct of Espanya that passed through moderation; that passes, in short, between Catalans and among the rest of the Catalans. Hence, from here, my tribute, the homenatge of my group, to Ernest Lluch. On the other hand, Ernest Lluch's figure is very interesting to me for a question, Mr. Counselor, and I go to his words earlier. You spoke before, let's say, that these are the best assumptions that Catalonia could have in the present circumstances. Indeed, his phrase reminded me of phrases from Cánovas del Castillo, which said that politics was the art of iron at every moment the possible between the circumstances. And, of the circumstances that we live in Catalonia, so I think we could do a lot better than do a few assumptions aimed at satisfying a game like the UPC, even though after and even the UPC ends up giving the bait to these assumptions. But anyway, I think you could do a lot better. And I think above all, Mr Counselor, that when you say that Catalonia could have much better assumptions if we were an independent state, one thing to remember: when you speak of 'tax deficit, in the best of cases, when you do not say 'tax deficit or even 'Spain robs us' – you obviously do not, but some members of your government and of parties that comply with this majority of parliament', you want to remember what Ernest Lluch specifically said about the fiscal deficit in Catalonia..., those terms are certainly acceptable, because, legally, this deficit has to be linked to the commercial surplus that Catalonia maintained with the rest of Spain. When Ernest Lluch said that it was essential to take into account..., he warned, before the immense ideological that this publicity presupposes the constant heaviness, the constant criticism, the constant victimism that nationalism exercised in Catalonia ends and in Catalonia..., he said precisely for this reason, because Catalans benefit from our relationship with the rest of Spain. Our main trading partners are autonomous communities bordering Catalonia – the Aragó, the Valencian Community, Balears – and not, in change, such important countries as Germany, France, etc. Do we come much to the rest of the world and the rest of Europe? Yes, but basically Spanish continues to feel..., or the rest of Spain continues to feel the main market of Catalan companies. Therefore, I believe that underscoring this reality is certainly unfair, it is little equitable and above all it is deeply dangerous for the future of Catalonia. That is why, when I said that Ernest Lluch made this point, it seems to me to take into account the commercial surplus that our companies hold with the rest of Spain, with our main trading partners. We have to start with the principle of reality. Catalonia does not deserve or needs more magical thinking, it does not need more populism as a match, but it needs more substantive policies: it needs more substantive policies oriented to economic growth, more substantive policies oriented to industry, more substantive policies oriented to promote autonomous, more substantive policies oriented to education; more political, in short, oriented to sanitation, social services and all that are the pillars of our welfare state. That's why when you say that three and four euros of this assumption go to social policies, they go to portfolios that they have to see with sanitation, with education and with social services, I ask myself: is it possible to expect something else, from assumptions that, at the end of the day, we pay the citizens of Catalonia together? Before you made the point of Josep Pla's famous phrase, when he visited New York in the fifties, who, impressed by the beautiful light of the city, said: "And all this, who pays for it? So that's what the Catalans pay for. And, of course, Counselor, allow a reflection perhaps a little more background, but I think that I am perfectly in the current situation, which is when you say that, who pays for it? – and I say we pay the citizens of Catalonia –..., we pay the citizens of Catalonia and those who will come; the citizens of Catalonia that we currently live in our land, in our community, and those that some years from now will have to pay the huge, monstrous public debt that we are leaving to future generations. As much in Catalonia as in Spain, it's true. The public debt of Spain, of the State in conjunction, of all public administrations, is absolutely monumental, and surely unsustainable in time. Now, I would also ask him for responsibility – you were talking about the ethics of responsibility – about a question, which is when he talks about the public debt of Spain's joint..., it is a public debt that affects the joint public administration. Let's not forget that the Generalitat, even though there are a few parties that pretend to make you see... as if that wasn't so, it was in Catalonia. Therefore, when we speak of the public debt of the joint public administration, or concretely of the joint state, we cannot band the fact that the State is in debt to the international markets to guarantee precisely the financing of the autonomous communities, Catalonia incluses. It's something that's often oblivious. Also oblivion the transfers made by the Government of Spain, oblivion the contributions of the FLA – that Catalonia is the autonomous community that has the most tickets for the Autonomous Liquidity Fund – and oblivion, in short, all the advantages, all the benefits that they have to see with the integration of Catalonia between Spain. For what he does to the assumptions and what he does to the fiscal issue, which I believe are questions that cannot be disconnected from each other, I believe that Catalans have nothing to do with continuing to endure Spain's highest fiscal pressure, greater than the whole country. We ask ourselves, many citizens of Catalonia, why you, who are so much in favour of a referendum policy surely little in agreement with what is the principle of reality, little in agreement with the principle of competence, little in agreement with international law and internal law..., we ask ourselves why they do not ask the whole of Catalonia if they are willing or agree to be the Spanish citizens we pay the most taxes. Why don't we ask the citizen of Catalonia if we want to continue to have more taxes in place than in any other autonomous community; whether we consider it normal or seem to us that the Catalans have fifteen taxes in place – certainly, by the way, four of them declared unconstitutional for the Constitutional Court – to, for example, the Community of Madrid, which has only three? There are different ways of dealing with the political autonomy, the economic autonomy that the autonomous communities have, and theirs is an extractive policy, it is a policy to guarantee their modus vivendi, to guarantee a hyperstructure, a hypertrophied public administration, an administrative labyrinth that obviously greatly impoverishes the citizens of Catalonia and generates a lack of competitiveness of our community towards others that I believe is representing a last for our future. So I think that when we talk about the Catalan public accounts we can't afford the fact, so that with this money that Catalans bring to the public administration, we could do many other things that you are not doing, even though it is true, what you say, about the three_of_each_four euros of the assumption that you are going to social policies. I insist, I think it couldn't be any other way. I believe that the question is what we do with the other euro; of these three_of_each_four..., what we do with the other euro. And the other euro, unfortunately, Mr Councillor, I must say that it is destined for superfluous policies, which simply do not serve anything or which in many cases are counterproductive to the lives of the citizens of Catalonia. In this sense, let me also, counselor, tell you something. I don't think you're leading with responsibility at any point in time..., no longer only with disloyalty to the rest of Spain and with disloyalty to the Government of Spain, but with a deep irresponsibility and with a deep disloyalty to the city of Catalonia. When you spoke earlier, let's say, of the fact that the Constitutional Court had dropped the proposal or the decree through which the Government had tried to alleviate, to some extent, the fact that they pay the lowest returns to Catalonia... Let's just tell him that you make them lower in Catalonia continue to feel the worst abuses of Spain. We continue to have some kind of tax in Catalonia that are very much above the national average; in some cases, two and a half points above the national average, which I think is not a small thing, is not the chocolate of crying. And I think from this point of view, the responsibility is strictly yours. They can't try to assign this responsibility to Madrid, and much less in case you need to comment on this assumption that you claim with this decree. Because it is known to me that from the Government of Spain, from the Ministry of Economy and History, it was asked that, in accounts to do so through the mechanism they tried to order, that it was basically to push the least exempt from statements by IRPF..., it was asked that they did so through a deduction. And that was perfectly possible, and, moreover, the Constitutional Court indicates it in its judgment. But you, as we all know – and, moreover, we knew it through some phone conversations of the Volhov case, because everything happened to know –... your strategy is not to do things for the sake of Catalonian citizenship, but to do things to confront the State. I remember perfectly the talks of the Volhov case of one of the representatives of the Republican Left with a representative of Junts per Catalunya, who gave it to the other: "What we have to do is to make this proposal for reform – I think that even if and how it was to advise Vergés some news in tea, of everything else–..., therefore, "What we have to do is to make a reform that the Constitutional Court has fallen on us; we do not suffer for the future, we do not suffer for what will happen, for the involvement or for the repercussions that it will have on the citizens of Catalonia, but what we are concerned about is that the Government of Spain is doing its job and has gone before the Constitutional Court this reform, and will already fall on it from the judicial institutions. And that's exactly what you did with this claim to lower these sixty..., well, these sixty-seven euros, at the end, that represented the lower, which is, let's say, a very low to the lower returns of Catalonia. And I think that from this point of view, you could have done what the Ministry of Economy and History asked you to do and what the Constitutional Court is ultimately asking you to do. Therefore, do not be sorry, counselor, that if you do what you should have done from the beginning Catalan taxpayers will not suffer so much and so much the fiscal pressure to which you subdue them. In fact, I insist, the Catalans are the Spanish citizens who pay more taxes, we pay more taxes and we pay more taxes for IRPF. The comparison with which a city of Madrid pays, for example, or even from a community like Andalusia, which historically had, let us say, a trajectory that seemed from the tax point of view to Catalonia, with the current Government of Andalusia..., has changed radically. And it is possible, among the mark of our competitions, to do a much less harmful policy for the interests of the citizens, in this case, of the citizens of Catalonia. I believe that the fact that the assumptions are not discussed, whether or not they are positive or not for the citizens of Catalonia, is that the assumptions are expanded – some even question the term of a radically controlling future –..., and what I say is that when we talk about expanding assumptions, because it increases public spending, we have to bear in mind that everything that I have to see with the three pillars of the welfare state – sanitation, education and social services – is well reversed. But on the other hand, everything that I want to see with superfluous expenditure, with syringuts, with publics that are of much dubious use for the citizenry in Catalonia – that there is no reticence, that there is no efficiency, that there is no transparency –..., to my mind it seems that this is something that we would have to look forward to. Because, to capdavall, as Lluc Beltran said, a great Catalan economist who I also claim from here for liberal, precisely for liberal– yes, to some, that they so much like to criminalize liberalism..., I think Catalonia needs more liberalism and less nationalism–..., so Lluc Beltran said that the private sector is the one that is controlled by the public sector, and, in change, the public sector is the one that does not control anyone. And, actually, I think that's it. And you take advantage of this situation, and with this discontrol over the functioning of the public sector, you end up making them want money from the city council. And I don't think that's responsible, I think we'd have to put in the measures to get back to a policy precisely, let's face it, more moderate in economic terms. This over-indebtedness that we suffer in Catalonia, this increase in public deficit, this constant increase in public debt, in the end will pass the bill, we will pay the conjunction of the citizens of Catalonia. And I think this is a reflection that we should all do: why does Catalonia always have to be submissive to the ruling of the CUP, must it always be submissive to the demands of the CUP? , even though after that I did not end up agreeing and ending up with the commons, with the saviors of the separatist parties, who are always, therefore, very fond of any opportunity to save the continuity of these policies so illiberal, so controlling to the economic growth, so controlling to the production, to a truly productive economy, to an economic development that our community and our country – Spain – need in an immediate, perpetual way. And that, really, with accounts like these, I think it's hardly going to happen. That's why we're presenting a statement to the totality. That's why we'll be presenting papers that will take into account, so, some of the fundamental aspects of the welfare state. Precisely with our reviews, what we would ask is, among other things, to absolutely eliminate the barracks. It's unbelievable, it's inconceivable... Any city in Catalonia that you ask: "You think it's normal for Catalonia to be the autonomous community that has the most expensive public television in Spain, with a huge difference, and that it's, besides, the community that has the most barracks, and so on, more the community that has the longest waiting lists in Spain? I don't think so. I believe that any reasonable city of Catalonia, with two sayings in front, will say: "No. How is it possible that we have this public television so pharaonic, so hypertrophied, and, on the other hand, we continue to have our children studying in barracks, more than other autonomous communities? With the resources of the citizens of Catalonia, Mr. Giró, many things can be done, to the gang of victimism. We have asked..., we will also ask with these items an increment of the module of operating expenses of the concert of the schools. Precisely, I think it's a battle that we're waging from the city and that I think it's very important that you're on the public debate. There is an absolute criminalization of the school agreed in Catalonia for an ideological question, for a cultural hegemony of the extreme left thinking and, in this case, of parties such as the CUP or the commons, which have a clearly contrasting view of the freedom and pluralism of a society. And that's why I want to remember a few visits I've made in the last few days as a spokesperson for the Education Commission, for example, to a school like the Vedruna School of Raval, where I saw a very little known reality of what is the school in Catalonia. The concerted school makes an indispensable social task, makes a phonenal task in terms of social cohesion, in terms of the integration of disadvantaged collectius. Therefore, to continue presenting the concerted school as a phenomenon, as an element propitious to the elites, I believe that it is one thing, if not more, perverse. And that's what I've been detecting in the public debate. Therefore, we will ask for an increase, precisely, in the cost of operating the concerts. Universalization of concerts at the post-compulsory secondary school. We consider that the fact, let's say, that someone arrives until the end of compulsory school and, let's say, they can go to a concerted school, have to change in the last stage of their education to a public school or, if not, even a private school, it is, in any case, a hardship for these people. I think it should be, let's say, responsible with our priorities and remember, too, that in sanitation, for example, we should push, give a definite boost to primary attendance. Catalonia continues to have a deeply abused primary assistance to other autonomous communities, an investment in primary assistance under the Spanish middle. And I think this is a tough thing that the citizens of Catalonia don't deserve. And, I insist, this isn't the fault of a so-called spoiler or a so-called stealer of Spain, but all the contrary, it's the fault of the prioritization of the policies of the governments that later ruled Catalonia for the last thirty years. From the point of view of social rights, the social rights portfolio was agreed that the year 2011 and it would be essential that the year 23 there was a new portfolio of social services rights, because we believe that they are out of date. And it's a priority that I think the current government isn't paying attention to. On the other hand, you asked, Mr. Giró – and it was an interesting force to me –: "How would these assumptions be detailed? , or how they would contain the expense, that it is not that we have all convinced that the three_of_each_four euros that go to social expense are, if not, plausible, are, if not, manageable? Well, we could argue if it's more or less uncertain, let's just say, distribution. But we could come to an agreement, which is, at the very least, plausible enough to allocate three of every four euros to health, education and social services policies. Perfect. But what would we detail? Well, we'd cut to half the public charges, we'd cut to half the elected councillors said to the Government of the Generality, that we're the autonomous community that has more of it, that we're in the middle of a mountain of countries that are..., you really should be motivated because you have a much more modest and less self-fulfilling attitude. On the other hand, we would reduce the seventy-five-per-cent of the expenses that we could basically call 'bomb and plateret'. There's a lot you have to see with propaganda. Very gross, let's say, of public expenditure that has to do with government propaganda. We believe that it would be useful to reduce the seventy-five percent of expenditure on external enterprises. Don't you think, Counselor, that with 270,000 people working for the Generality there shouldn't be enough to reduce the cost of hiring external private companies? I think there's no doubt about it. Reduce – a phonative thing – 50_per_cent the expenditure in the CTTI. From this point of view, I believe that the fact that the CTTI has a 700_million euro endowment is an authentic misconception, bearing in mind, I insist, the much more permanent priorities that exist in Catalonia. There are other considerations, there are other questions that also seem important to us, such as the fact that the Catalonian Institute of Space Studies – space space – Foundation, let us say, is the embryo of what must be Catalan NASA, the popularly-named Catalan NASA, has a endowment of 7.6_million euros and sixty-nine workers. Home, I think there are a lot of things in which you have to admit, or you will agree with me that you could really try to reduce, to the extent possible, not just what you said before tax hell– let's say, a name of a truly unjust and, moreover, dysfunctional situation for Catalan society–, but above all the administrative labyrinth in which we have converted or have converted you, with their policies, Catalonia. From the point of view of the propitious taxes, it is obvious that when we talk about the inheritance tax, when we talk about the property transfer tax, when we talk, in short, about the fifteen propitious taxes that Catalonia has, our competitiveness towards other autonomous communities remains absolutely, let's say, touched, or it is a huge waste of having to support a tax system that is not conducive to a community that is captivating, that is modern, that is advanced, that wants to have an industrial development and a business development that is driving Spain, like at least, and even in Europe. In this sense, I am drawn to the attention, for example, as compared to the fact that it has a share of €55_million for industry support programmes and is endowed with the same amount of català's promotion policies. In this sense, I would like to make a point, I would like to dwell on a question: we, of course, have no problem with the provisions for catalan development, whenever they are for catalan development and not for the exclusion of castella, which is what many times end up assuming these supposed policies of catalan language development. I think that..., I insist on what I said before: there are many things in these assumptions that could be improved, counselor. I'm telling you with all due respect. There are elements that have called our attention. For example, let's say, looking at the pages of the Catalan public administrations that have to do with the Government of Catalonia, we found, for example, that there are some websites that are not updated since the year 2011. A web, for example, for a pact for industry, for a pact for the development of industry, which is not updated from year 11 and is in year 2021. It is therefore clear that its priorities are neither industry nor indeed infrastructure. The concrete pact, let's say, of the year 2006 was from the year 2006 until the year 2026, and it was not for the industry, but for the infrastructure – excuses, that I have here. And this deal isn't up to date, there's nothing about this web page that I've been seeing with this since 2011. So, your priorities I think are very clear these years. And I, therefore, make them from here a cry to re-place Catalonia between a few limits, a logic that is reasonable, that is, as a minimum, moderate from the point of view of coexistence and from the point of view of the progress of our society. The other day I made a cry, which I repeat here, the need to return to the, let us say, cooperation between Catalans, to try to avoid the blocs, to try to avoid this treachery that has occurred to the Catalan society at the time of making investments, at the time of making joint initiatives between citizens of Catalonia who think in one way and citizens of Catalonia who think of another, on the strictly national question, that is the most divisory. I believe that – what we are giving the other day – this study of the London School of Economics, which said, precisely, that one of the main problems facing political communities that have a separatist tension is precisely this, is the fact that the two..., the two bands..., I do not like to say the two banners, of course, but the two bands or the two blocks – even though the term does not like me, but to the benefit of making an inventory, the fact that I do not have an interrelationship between them, ends up greatly harming the economy of the community. And the fact of the evil, the fact of the mistrust between Catalan constitutionalists and Catalan independenceists, I think it is a great last for our society, and I think we must try, among all, with high eyes, to overcome this division, overcome this mistrust, and do things together again, because it will be the only way that Catalonia will come back to do important things, for Catalonia and for the conjunction of Spain. And, in this sense, Mr. Counsellor, I wanted to remind you – I have already reminded you – of an author of the school of which Lluc Beltran himself called the centrist school of Catalonia or the Catalan centrist school, who gave something that seemed very interesting to me. He spoke, in this centrist school in Catalonia..., that I think we should precisely recover his principles as the vertebrator of the political life of our community. I posed with examples characters like Antoni de Capmany, Ramon Llàtzer de Dou, Jaume Balmes, Mañé i Flaquer, and Joan Maragall, and also Francesc Cambó. I believe that they are figures who necessarily represent a will to make a better Catalonia, integrated among a better Spain; that they are perfectly aware, were perfectly aware in their moment, that the best for Catalonia is the best for Spain. And I think that's something I should be very present again. As a liberal, I think that there is a liberal alternative for Catalonia, I think there is a liberal alternative for the whole of Spain, I think that we can make policies that do not follow, let's say, an increase in public expenditure absolutely out of reach, absolutely out of any logic. I believe that the pandemic situation forces us to make an effort in terms of health, in terms of education and in terms of social services, but we do not have to accept this dynamic of growth of bureaucracy, this dynamic of indefinite growth of public administration, because, in the end, it is to the detriment of today's Catalans and tomorrow's Catalans. Therefore, I, with the liberal, want to think that there is this liberal Catalonia, this open Catalonia in the world, this open Catalonia in Spain. And I want to finish this intervention by quoting, precisely, some words from another Catalan liberal. I insist today: I like to claim the Catalan centrist school, the liberal school in Catalonia. Because Catalonia is not all, let us say, anti-liberalism, the il-liberal format of politics, the il-liberal approach to politics that currently presides over our public debate, but historically there have always been great liberal thinkers in our community. And, in this case, I will quote Salvador Millet and Bel, another great Catalan liberal, who gave one thing that seems to me, from the sentimental point of view, from the moral point of view, from the political point of view and from the economic point of view also, very interesting and that I believe the citizens of Catalonia, therefore, many of them, if not, subscribe to this statement. He said, in an article I believe that La Vanguardia..., an article written in castella, in this case, that said: « Personally, I feel very Catalan, very Spanish and very European, but above all I feel a man who loves freedom. My nation is a nation without limits, an open nation that transcends all borders. If a nationalist had to call me, he'd call me a nationalist of freedom. And that is precisely..., that is precisely, counselor, what we defend for the Catalan economy. An economy that is not nationalist in terms of identity, but precisely that is a defender of freedom, that is a defender of the economic progress of our community, and that is not inclined to place Catalonia in the hands of the anti-system, in the hands of people or parties that have a completely counterproductive approach to economic development. And that's why I want to warn you, too, or warn you of a question: these policies of expansion of unlimited public spending can have enormous risks to the economy, and inflation is not one of them. I think we have to be conscious, responsible, and these assumptions are neither conscious nor responsible. And that's why Ciutadans won't be able to support his proposal. Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.14.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.15.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, without serving as a precedent, we will strictly follow the instructions of Mr. Giró. And, therefore, we have consulted our conscience and we have come to the conclusion, making use of its words, that this premise is not to be taken. And as a result, we ask for your return and keep the emena to the totality. We wanted to justify this whole thing to the five basic axes that I'm going to describe. First. The process of drawing up the premise and its contents are, again, in the lack of political stability and also of responsibility in its political action, and this can never end well. They are repeatedly talking about a supposed majority in the ballot box, but they are, after all, systematically unable to exercise it since 2012, perhaps because in reality it is not such a majority. Every presupposition is an unmatched part, a clever spectacle. If that was the new policy, please, let's get back to the old one. Mr. Giró spoke in appearance in committee about the model of European policy that goes beyond bipartisanism and that, in short, goes up to plural agreements and so on? I also like to follow European policy, and it is true that it applies there to what they say 'variable geometry; what does not apply there is impossible and absurd geometry, which is what you apply. If we didn't have enough with the tradition of putting in the hands of a CUP assembly, which could perfectly tie to 1,515, the future of politics in Catalonia, they now wanted to take a step further, and that, frankly, I insist on, is clever. You're irresponsible and deeply frivolous. And that, Mr. Giró, in the terms that happen here..., the rest of Europe have problems, but in the terms that happen here, that doesn't happen anywhere in Europe. You still have, Mr. Giró, the bar to accuse of tacticalism the political formations that keep the emena to the totality. With the "appreciation and respect I have for you, Mr. Giró, if you are looking for the word "tacticism in the dictionary," your photo appears. So, I don't think I'm the best person to talk about tacticalism. In short, it confirms the thesis that we have been holding for a long time, that winning Catalonia since the year 2012 is not independence, that does not come up nor will arrive – fortunately –, but the extreme left, with the destructive effect that this entails for the Catalan economy. Two. The arrival of resources from Europe and the Government of Spain should serve as an opportunity to alleviate a little fiscal pressure. They don't just don't do it, they just take a new tax out of their hands, like CO2, which doesn't punish those who pollute the most, but who doesn't have the resources to buy a new vehicle. And if that wasn't enough, with the new agreement with the commons, it seems that two or three taxes would come from us. The expression "fiscal hell" is already short in Catalonia. Three. They make the political entrémat bigger. A Generalitat every time bigger and a civil society every time smaller and run down by political power. Catalonia needs more job opportunities for its people, no more political responsibilities and advisors. Catalonia needs more entrepreneurs, no more advice. Most historical memory to the autonomous Spanish communities, fourteen, emulating the twenty-two ministries, also remembered by Pedro Sánchez. It is not by chance that qualitatively higher increases are personal, internal and external. I'll explain. The staff. I'm not talking about Mossos or medical personnel, obviously needed. Consult your Presidency or other premises. I'm talking about other roles and advisors. Some stratospheric increments. Inner propaganda. It is articulated through two instruments: the stratospheric increase in subsidies to mediums and also the stratospheric increase in public mediums of the Government of Catalonia. The outside propaganda. What does that mean? So one thing is obvious, and you have converted the external action of the Generalitat de Catalunya directly into external propaganda. It's what they're dedicated to doing when they're overseas. Personal, high, etcetera, internal propaganda, external propaganda: the key elements of social control. And it's that these assumptions are the assumptions of the process, a very peculiar political practice. You do not work, now for now, strictly for the independence of Catalonia, but for the social control of Catalonia. The dream of some naive people who still believe them about independence, allows them to intervene more intensely each time and turn Catalonia into a protectorate for your service. Catalonia and its Administration to serve its political formations. At the beginning of the 1980s, Madrid had very large political institutions and a very small civil society. Catalonia, on the other hand: it had small political institutions and a very dynamic and large civil society. Forty years later, things are exactly the opposite. Madrid has an autonomous government that does not charge taxes, that has much less structure than the Government of the Government of Catalonia, and the Government of Catalonia is every time bigger and its civil society smaller. That's what I've just explained, and that's actually how it bothers them... because it's logical, because the truth is what they have, isn't it? , to offend, say. So this is easily demonstrable. For example, by analyzing a small amount of its external action, which previously qualified as ‘outer propaganda, with this scandalous increase of the twenty-eighth percent. Have you noticed that the larger the foreign department, the smaller the investments arrive in Catalonia? Have you noticed how more delegations operate outside the country? Paraphrasejant the great humorist Gila : « Such seems that you work for the enemy. Please, it's better that you stay home, because every time you go out to promote Catalonia to the world, you leave a hundred businesses. Four. Totality is justified with especially heavy data. They dedicate you to employment policies... occupation policies, people's addresses. Don't place more trust and trust, which is what seems to you to consider occupation policies– occupation policies for your parties–; no, I'm talking about occupation policies for the city council. Only..., 40_million less – sorry – than the year 2020, with the situation we have – 40_million less euros. Only 76_millions of support to industry – it has put up a mike with the agreement, but it continues to feel absolutely insufficient– ; 43_millions for business development. A lot less than they've been dedicating, as I said a while ago, to propaganda. Every time less productive economy, every time more political propaganda. Subsidies are growing in the Presidency – I said a moment ago in the media –: 19_million euros. They want everyone controlled, because it's finally about this. Against this backdrop, we are proposing an alternative – and as long as we are proposing an alternative – which is the stake for the productive economy, which is the one that generates occupation and which, therefore, can end up paying social benefits. Lower taxes on families – the IRPF's autonomous tram, the removal of inheritance tax –; lower taxes on pimes and autonomes, do not create us, like CO2, which precisely destroy the most humble carriers; attract investments; facilitate the tornado of entrepreneurs in Catalonia. That's what needs to be done, and not what you're putting up with these assumptions. And let's not invent the wheel. It is a recipe that is working well in Madrid, Andalusia, Galicia, and that we believe would be perfectly applicable to Catalonia. I would like to end this intervention with a fifth and final point, a fifth and final reflection. With their budgets, they have lost a golden opportunity to stand next to the families that suffer the most, the families that have the most problems to reach the end of the month. Inflation punishes especially the most humble: the receipt of the light fired, filling the car deposit is a real torture, the shopping basket did not grow that way and so fast since 1992. It was time to demonstrate that social sensitivity that they so much presume, but that they so much lack. At a time like this, they can't think of anything other than continuing to raise taxes on families. At a time like this, they can think of nothing other than creating new taxes, which continue to crush those humble families. And with the new deal with the commons and Podemos, even more taxes. As I said a moment ago, the expression "fiscal hell begins to get cut in Catalonia". They had a golden opportunity – and they had it – to dignify politics, to convey a message of support to those thousands of Catalan families who are beginning to live the situation in despair. They've decided not to do it. You prefer to continue in politics, that pathetic show of corridors that so much amuses you, only you: that if the CUP, that if the commons, that if the sursoncorda, doesn't matter. You, in the end, say you are at the service of the Catalans, but you are only at the service of your own. It is the story of your unbearable and inexhaustible process, which leads to nothing, but of which you live as kings, as Catalonia collapses around you. Thank you so much. [[The orator exclaims the riu. Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.16.0	He was happy because he didn't run out of time, Mr. Fernández. In accordance with Rule 85.6 of the Rules of Procedure, the Economic Adviser asked to speak. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, now they're looking for him. They know that after the advisor's intervention it generates a right of reply proportional to the buyer for the same on behalf of the Government. [[The Councillor of Economy and History enters the Sessions Hall.]] So, counselor, you have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.17.0	Madam President, councillors and councillors, Members, I have asked for the word round, because I want to respond briefly to the parties that have submitted papers to the totality of the assumptions. In the first place, to the lady Alicia Romero, representing the party of the Socialists of Catalonia. Well, Mrs Romero, the political options, therefore, that represent the Socialist Party and the government parties know that they are extended in many respects, but today what I have tried to make manifest in my speech is that the one that was at stake in this debate and at this time is not the country view or the state model – that you reminded President Aragonès that we do not share this country view–; today it was not at stake, but only the assumptions, a very simple and very different thing from the state model. You reminded President Aragonès that we have a different country view. What we are debating today is whether Catalonia, at this time, can allow the coming year to begin with assumptions that were made before the pandemic. And we have to decide whether the citizens, the voters of the Socialist Party, but also the voters of any option of this Parliament, they deserve us to look at the year coming with a political management instrument that is no longer effective and no longer useful to us. I must tell you, Mrs Romero, that after so many and so many times that you have asked us for assumptions that we have begun to reach this hemisphere, I thought that today they would be very happy and that they would approve of the handling of the assumptions. [[some applause]] , because you think that I still remember you from the first day that I arrived in this hemisphere..., the first thing he said to me is, "Make assumptions. And we were in June and it was a little difficult. But, in Fi, completely respect your final decision to respect. You're also asking for the increase in spending, which you think you should be... that you should be in other areas. I'm asking you, please, what you can really tell me. And don't tell me that about TV3 and the "singlinguites, that this is in a few more troublesome corners than they always say. We need to see where we can retaliate, because believe 'that it is not easy to increase everything that you commented on when you have the seventy-six per cent of the expenditure on education, health, social rights, and what remains, as I explained before, advancing to what I understand to be a concern of many Members..., is that what remains of us is also very important. I, therefore, cannot fail to search, neither industry, nor economy, nor enterprise, etc. Regarding the expenditure of the covid funds, tell him that every month is published, in the monthly report of execution of the Generalitat, the fate of the covid funds and that, go, I offer myself to send him the latest data, but that we have full transparency in the expenditure. After that, you were comparing the deserved spending of the year 2020 with the 2022 assumption. He's as good as the parliamentary rhetorical figure, but that doesn't hang in there, Mrs. Romero, huh? I mean, first of all, we can't compare a presupposition with its execution, and, second of all, 2022, as you know, right now, disjointedly, we won't have the 3,300_million euros that we did have in 2020. So, if you help us get them, we can compare a little better 2020 with 2022, with these 3,300 that we had 2020 and that we won't have 22. 2020 also had, according to the financing model, 900_million euros positive for the liquidation of the financing model system that we will not have on 22. Therefore, even the execution cannot be compared with the premise and, moreover, there are, as a minimum... there are more things, but as a minimum these two, 3,300 and 900, which obviously change. You were also commenting that the resources... the Economy Advisor doesn't recognize that the resources come from the beasts of the State, do you? And what about the beasts from the State? Do you know where they're coming from? Of the taxes paid by Catalans [[applause]] and the businesses of Catalonia; here they come. Listen, this year 2022, EUR 52,000_million are taxes paid by citizens of Catalonia and businesses of Catalonia. Listen, it's as easy as 52,000 coming and we'll fix it. Later, you were also commenting – Mr Martín Blanco's deputy also mentioned later – that there was little money in Industry. I want to comment and explain that..., aviam, Industry, as it happens in other areas, is an area in which not all the money is in the consulting; it is a cross-sectional area, where there is a share of money that is in Business and Work, there are other lines that are in Research and Universities, or that are in Economics, or that are in others... At the ICF, without going any farther, we have 210_million euros to go to Industry. I mean, Industry is a game that we have in many other departments, not just the department that has the competence. He was also commenting on you, already to finish answering the most significant things you raised, the theme of hospitals. It's a topic where we're very committed and I'm glad you're through. Miri, about the zero-euros he has commented – I thought he heard – of hospitals. Miri, the Tortosa Hospital and the Trueta Hospital are in the process of starting now what is said the functional plan and urban planning. We can't predict a 15-, 20-, 25-million expense right now if we don't even have the land. I mean, believe 'but when we have them..., and one year from now we can make assumptions again, sure they will be there and sure we can move forward. And on the other hand, speaking of hospitals, tell him that we have 2,4_million for the Hospital of Vic, 5,3 for the Duran and Reynals and 1,8 for maintenance issues, climate and pharmacy at the Hospital Trueta. There is also a 4.3_millions match for Infrastructures. cat, for the writing of various projects for the better in different hospitals of the Catalonian network. To Mr. Gallego, from VOX. Also address a few words of thanks to Mr Gallego; thank you not so much for the content of your speech, which was very predictable and which was on the margins of which your party is moving. And say in the margins, because both the good and the speech of VOX, today marginal, never cease to be. [[Widow's remorse.]] We were, you said about the Airef. Look, the Airef doesn't say – believe me, look at 'hobe' – in no way that we won't charge the money from the Mossos; to which the Airef points is that we have to charge, all the debt... It's a debt, eh? Remember, it's a 2009 state debt. We're on 21st and we're now negotiating aircraft as we cover a debt of 1,000_million euros from the Mossos. So, Airef's what he's saying is he's gonna have to charge everything for the 21st, okay? , which we do not share and which will be charged as we actually earn the money, which is 336_million, in three or four years, until we get to cover the debt that we have respect for the new promotions of the Mossos of the year 2009. Catalunya, believe me, Mr. Gallego, it's okay. The objective data on GDP, occupation, I mean... do I understand that, huh? I mean, you have to make your speech and I understand it and I respect it, but Catalonia is fine. And so good that we keep going a little better every time, don't we? You're also talking about the planned tax recap. He said 2022 is above 2020, right? You didn't say that? [[Pause.]] I understand that... that this assumption had a lot more entrance money, that if we had some new tax and that we didn't... oh, yes, Mr. Gallego, that I understood it well? [[Pause.]] Okay. The forecast for 2022 in tax recap is over 20, because I remembered that 20 was a huge pandemic from March onwards and all tax recaps were dropped. So, frankly, we expect to recap much more 2022 than 2020, just like all the countries of the world. He was also commenting on a tax issue, which, if I may, will include him in the answer to Mr. Nacho Martín Blanco, on whether Catalonia pays a lot of taxes or pays a few. They will now allow me to respond to the deputies and deputies of the CUP, and to give me a little more to respond to the position of the Popular Unity Candidate. As you all know, the CUP has been the government's priority option to try to make assumptions. So I explained it and defended it many times in public and in private. And this has been the reason that, even with the talk of the totality already presented, we have tried to keep the negotiation alive until the last moment. But, as you know, the deal wasn't possible. The first one I want to express is my respect for the decision of the CUP and for the position expressed for its militancy. Respect for the truth – respect for the truth –. For almost three months, a dozen meetings were held with the elected representatives of the CUP. I must say, frankly, that there have been often intense conversations, always – at least for me – pleasant and intellectually stimulating and enriching. We knew our ideological differences, but we believed that the citizens' mandate to work towards independence should be a priority in our negotiations, and that this mandate required that we do everything possible to preserve the unity of sovereignism. We went to negotiate with this spirit and, as in all negotiations, we had to do an exercise to hear the reasons of others and try to incorporate them. The contributions from the CUP that we have been able to introduce seem to improve the draft budget and, therefore, I would like to thank them. Now – now – the People's Unity Candidature has told us, with its aim of totality, that we have not done enough. And, publicly, they've made us three toilets. They told the government that we are not sovereignists enough, they told us that we are an extension of "socio-virgency" and that these assumptions are continuous. Mirin, in the first place, I believe that neither the Republican Left nor the Junts per Catalunya—none—can recreate that we do not follow enough sovereignists. [[Greetings.]] I do not know – frankly I say it – whether there are any other parties... I do not know whether there are any other parties in this Parliament with so many members who, while peacefully and democratically defending the country's right to self-determination, have put into play, and have lost it, its freedom, its heritage, its home and its ability to represent politically the citizens of this country. [[Greetings.]] And if during these months we have insisted on negotiating the assumptions exclusively with the UPC, it has been precisely because the government's parties believe and continue to believe – and we continue to believe – that we must put before anything else the aspiration to sovereignty that they share more than half the citizens. For what he does to the second toilet, I have to tell you that "socio-virgency no longer exists for a long time, ladies and gentlemen of the CUP – it no longer exists. "Socio-vergency imploded, like so many other things, with the process. Everything that was and represented no longer exists. What does exist, to many advanced European countries and, fortunately, also to Catalonia, is a political environment that flees from extremes and maximalist positions. In the state of modern welfare in which we want to emmirate, it combines the private initiative of citizens and enterprises with the public provision of basic services, such as education or sanitation, and with the establishment of comprehensive and decided policies to correct inequalities. I guarantee you – I guarantee you – that the government has no intention of periling this model. In the third place, he was accused of having made some continuistic assumptions. So miri, yes, they are. As they are, certainly, all the assumptions of the world. As we understand them, for us the assumptions are not a lever for revolution, but an instrument for the continued best. We will work on the work done by the previous governments and work on commitments that we cannot and will not fail to accomplish. There are ongoing commitments. When the 1st generation begins, there are many commitments. Any government responsible for the whole world has to make commitments and go better. If this is "continue," yes, we are. In democratic policy – democratic –, some assumptions are never and can never be a point and apart. And, saying all this, I would like, if not, to share with you, members of the CUP, one last point. Negotiating a few assumptions means two things. First of all, it means negotiating some assumptions. I, second place, means negotiating, not another thing. I note the assumption, because I have the impression that the CUP's refusal to facilitate the process to this law has little to do with the content of the Generality's accounts for the year 22. A while ago, I passed the three toilets on which is the basis of his totality. You've got a lot to do with the annual accounts. Maybe the only one is the third, but in this case, even you've recognized us all for the best. And I think the government's and this councillor's effort was palpable in all the best we've ever achieved. Presumables. The other word I gave was 'negotiation'. Negotiating assumptions – negotiating. Miri, I'd like to reflect on the way, at least humbly, I have to hear what it is to negotiate. Negotiating means discussing and dialogue with the willingness to hear the point of view of others and with the real vocation to reach an agreement. It means believing that from the dialog and the transaction a rich project can emerge and, ultimately, that a better way can emerge to serve the interests of the city council. And it also means – and above all, to be aware of the representativeness with which each person sits at the negotiating table and to recognize that the outcome of the dialogue will need to be framed in the model of country that for the most part voted by the citizens. MPs and MPs of the UPC, as you know, in 1917 the Bolshevik leader Lev Trotsky deprived the most moderate group of Russian revolutionary forces, the Menxevics, when it was decided to assault the Palau d'Hivern. Trotsky said that with that gesture the menxevics passed from time to time to the paper of history. You have served this very expression a sec later, in 2016, when you demanded the step to the side of President Mas, who set aside the 9 November consultation and many of the things with which we arrived here today with fifty-two percent. And they have repeated it again, the same expression, these days, claiming that it is lenght to the history paper some important investment project for the territory when it has not yet begun or to walk. And now, with its totality, they also want to fill the assumptions in this very paper. Look, the first management of sustainability is not to let go of anything that works. [[Greetings.]] Perhaps, in order to send so many things to the history paper, you, at this moment, should begin to take advantage of them or to improve them, which is what all the policies do, which, in addition to conviction, also have responsibilities. [[Greetings.]] I'll be here to answer Mr. Nacho Martín Blanco. Look, don't worry, Mr. Martín Blanco, that commercial relations with all of our lives will continue to be so profitable so far, because it suits both of us. You think commercial relationships have nothing to do with philanthropy, they're something else. And, therefore, I trust, and so show the dice, that they will remain the same. With regard to making a reference about taxes, I accept it, if we put it in the reference if people really want to continue with the situation that we are up to now or if they want a state close to where they pay less taxes, which is what we could have. You spoke of the subject imposed; so did Mr Gallego. I'll explain why we pay the taxes we pay here in Catalonia. Miri, the funding shortfall in the financing model is what brought us, in these past twenty years – with different-color governments, because there were all kinds of colors in the governments – to increase the tax burden in Catalonia. Catalonia suffers from an underfunding that you know, chronic and structural, derived from a model that has expired many years ago. Catalonia is the third largest per capita community and, therefore, has the highest fiscal capacity. When we look at what we get, once we apply the financing system and take into account the cost of living, we become the third most important for each inhabitant, to be the fourteen; the fourteen we get the most. This is objective data, Mr Martín Blanco: each català brought the year 19 2,967_millions, and we went on to 'n2,390, along with the communities that are in the first positions, which is 3,750_euro per inhabitant. All this is explained by the following: in order to finance the same services, we need to have more tax – in order to finance the same services, we need to have more tax. It's not a whim; it's not a whim of anyone. Catalonia has €1,356 per inhabitant less than other communities, and this fact, together with the State's investment deficit, makes Catalonia's citizens less equipped with public services than they deserve and bear a higher tax burden than they would have. To Mr. Fernández, of the People's Party. Mr. Fernández, as we see every time, they seem more Ciutadans and VOX the same as PP. As long as I don't repeat myself, I'll try to be brief. Miri, on the content of his intervention, I will only add that, once more, I have not heard him speak of poverty, of inequality, of redistribution or of social justice. I didn't hear him talk– I didn't hear him talk–; neither did he do it today. On the other hand, the mouth is filled with claims that we lower taxes; that we lower the tax on assets, estates or capital gains, measures that ultimately benefit only one percent of the population. After a few years of free fall, Mr. Fernández, you now represent 3.8_percent of Catalans. The good news, therefore, is that they still have a bit of room for manoeuvre. If they continue to propose themselves with the same energy as you have done these last days, surely they will find a way to reduce this percentage even more and continue their race towards political insignificance. And, look, I'm gonna give him a lead on what they can do to follow this path. I will remind you, Mr Fernández, that a fact occurred last week that gives account of the so toxic way that the PP has to hear politics. Last week you took advantage of a question to President Aragonès, knowing that I had no right to reply, to qualify myself literally to lie, and to question my integrity. Mr. Fernández, I don't intend to give you any explanation or defend myself, because I don't want to go into the logic that you propose to me. Everyone who knows it at first hand will be able to explain to him who my position was and with whom I compromise and see how I exposed him when he discussed his company's move where I was working. And, obviously, I never sent any writing, no communication, no phone call to the CNMV, nor did I ask for the change of her social – never. And if you have any paper, hand it over and teach it. More. Please, no more. [[Greetings.]] And, Mr Fernández, I return to say – I return to say – here, in your parliamentary office, that for me – I don't know for you – is sacred: the Guindos decree of the People's Party, of its People's Party government, violated the right of thousands and thousands of shareholders and was the lever that waited for the start of Catalonia's companies without having to go through the general meeting of shareholders as predicted. Mr Fernández, some of the people we have the honor of addressing this Parliament, may occasionally serve rhetorical resources. That makes it a little bit more time to make our speech. You do it yourself and you do it very well. Some other speakers abandon the path of rhetoric and relight for the perilous pendant of demagogy. But you, Mr. Fernández, went further last week. You started from the head to the black pyre of the personal attack and defamation. And today I'm back to doing it. Perhaps he believed: "Since the Lord has not said anything about these days, I will try again. I didn't say anything because I didn't have the gallery yet, and I have it today and I can answer it. And I promise you, as much as you pull me out of my hand, in this case of defamation you won't be able to flush me out. The insidia, the lying and the defamation, I, in this Parliament, will never make it serve, neither against you nor against anyone. [[Greetings.]] And with that, I'll finish the line, Madam President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.18.0	Very well, therefore, for the answer, as the Councillor has used twenty-eight minutes of time, parliamentary groups have five and a half minutes each of the groups. The deputy of the Socialist Party and Units for Progress, Ms. Alicia Romero, would begin.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.19.0	Thank you, President. I said, Counselor Giró, you, that this assumption is a rough one, isn't it? ; it's a deal, it's something that's going to pass through Parliament today. Really, you want me to get serious, Counselor Giró, tell me that? In other words, the premise is a phonative – phonative – tool for a government, phonative to strengthen those public policies that want to improve on the calendar of proper years. Therefore, it does not diminish the importance of a presumption. We've already grown up enough in institutions, we've grown up enough for Catalonia to lose opportunities since many years ago. Don't get a phone and basic tool that we take very seriously. Miri, you said – and I said in the reply to the CUP – that you have been exclusively negotiating with them. So if you say that, it's incompatible with asking us now that we make a vote of responsibility, especially because it's been a long time since the president of my group was able to work together, to talk, to negotiate if it was necessary, and you haven't used it. I suppose you have followed instructions from the President of the Generality, who was attested and is more attuned to maintaining the majority of investment than to making good assumptions. And this has led us to the fact that you have not had a dialogue with the PSC, you have not so much alone and you have not opened the door to being able to talk about concrete issues, about the policies that this country needs, about many problems that we have and many challenges that we have to face. And that's what's hard for us; among other things, because we're the first group in the chamber, because we've always shown dialogues to talk to everyone, and also – and we say it here – because we understand each other, together for Catalonia and with the Republican Left in other institutions. And, therefore, it seems lied that here we can't open a sincere dialog to talk about the most important law approved in a parliament, which are the assumptions. And, therefore, you cannot ask us, counselor, accessions. We don't make accessions, we make negotiations. And, therefore, there was no negotiation, so our task to the totality is maintained. Second place, counselor, you don't do victimism. We're always with victimism. And, listen, I know it's hard, you're running some elections to govern the reality you've come across. They can change it, but while they don't change it, that's what they have. By responsibility with their convictions, what they have to do is govern reality. Manage well, work, negotiate to get more resources for Catalonia; also, at the table of the autonomous financing system. Therefore, do not leave the cadira empty; by responsibility we ask it there, Counsellor Giró. And also – and I told Vice President Junqueras as well – he reminded me of a few things to him, counselor, when he did that – it would be a little more modest. Yes, because the legislature doesn't know if it's going to be short or long, but politics is. And I think it's okay for us to keep it all together, because today we can teach someone and then another day they'll teach us. And I think it's okay to keep us in this place with all the deputies and deputies. Miri, you wanted to do it, defend some block assumptions, some assumptions from one side of the country. And we carry many weeks, many months demanding a country assumption that I represent everyone. We can't, because the president is about to be president of Catalonia. Well, we, obviously, here they won't find us, under these assumptions, in the face of the influence of the radicals. And, therefore, we will continue to be critical of them and presenting and presenting the issues that we consider necessary. This premise of bloc does not solve the problems of the country – and you spoke of inequality – does not face the challenges that we have in front of us, which are many. And, therefore, we cannot harvest them. In the end, most of it's broken. They have most of the investment broken after six months of triessing President Aragonès. Despite all the efforts you've made these weeks to keep her, she's broken. And here what we are most concerned about – and we have said before – is where we go, what is the future that awaits us, with whom will bring to an end the policies that will heat up in this country, which is Catalonia and which needs many. And, therefore, this is the concern we have among all of us. Let's hope they can answer these questions, beyond the presupposition, which seems to have already been granted to the commons for a second time. But what we want to know is what will happen next, who will be its full route, with whom they will share it and where they will bring Catalonia, who needs a serious government, a government that thinks of the totality of the country and a government that is in important things. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.20.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.21.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, with all due respect, these are optimistic budgets. Do you really continue to think that objective 6.4 will be met with all the economic growth reviews that Brussels and so many international bodies have put forward? Can't you recognize...? Well, you recognized that, that they were optimistic budgets. Can you recognize at parliamentary level that it will be very complicated, taking into account the data we have now, that 6.4 can be met? Can you say that, man, it has been a bold thing to put in the income chapter 500_million_of_euro without being bound with the Government of Spain? Because you said: "Well, we have tabled an amendment in the Spanish Parliament. The Junts group perhaps approves of it... But they are not yet approved, those budgets; that is, many things can happen. Even you had doubts when it came to stating that those 500_million were going to come in. So, finally, putting in a budget 500_million_of_euro without having the fully bound is also a little bit of a sin of optimism, isn't it? Secondly, you have made reference in your reply to what I have commented on the Airef. I'll show you the report. I don't make things up, do I? In other words, the Airef, in the report, on page 11 – now if you want to leave it – says: "The community registers on its stage – speaking of Catalonia –" of revenues for the 22nd the year corresponding to this year by the regularization of the autonomous police, which does not contemplate the scenario of the Airef. I just told him that. I told you you said you're going to cash in, and Airef doesn't think you're going to cash in. That's it. Just like the 500-million, which I'm saying, in the end... that I'm not saying that they don't end up coming in, but they're not tied up. It is not wise to incorporate almost 1,000_million_euros into a budget without having the ties; it is a bit reckless. It also speaks, by the way, of Airef that we are not going to meet the deficit target either. You say 0.6, and they're talking 0.8. There are many people, and people who work very well the public accounts, such as Airef – indeed it is an organism that does it well – who do not believe these accounts – who do not believe them. Thirdly, you said: 'Catalonia is doing well. « Catalunya is fine. He's said it on different occasions. Man, with 426,000 unemployed, with the massive flight of companies that I have shown you before, with the growth of fiscal hell and the application of new fiscal figures that you have allegedly agreed– and on that I will then ask you– with En Comú Puerde, with the highest absolute public debt in Spain, with record in dependency lists..., waiting lists in terms of dependency in access to a geriatric, on the health lists, the record of barracks, with an Arope – a rate of risk of social exclusion – of twenty-six_per_cent, man, you can't tell me that Catalonia is going well, can you? I mean, be a little more careful. Even be a little more respectful with the people who are having a bad time, that in Catalonia..., is that there are thousands, thousands and thousands of families who have trouble getting to the end of the month. It seems to me an imprudence that the Economics Councillor says: "No, Catalonia is doing well. Frankly. There's a lot of people who can't afford the electricity bill. Many people who have problems carrying out a balanced diet, as you yourselves recognize. You can't say this is going well. I mean, there are a lot of things to do. I'm done. About income. I said: "It will be the only government in the world that presumes that it will collect 588 million more and so. I haven't compared it to 20. That's what you said. I know perfectly well that in the 20th the CO2 emissions tax was not in force – it was not –; that of other activities affecting the environment was not in force either. Therefore, it cannot be compared. What I have asked you to do is clarify why you have put in the revenue forecast that you are going to collect EUR 160_million for the CO2 tax on vehicles. Because in the liquidations of the current budget, which speaks of 66 on the website..., when you presented your draft budgets and tax spoke of 66_millions of planned collection. It's just that he's been fattened by 100_million. It's just that that's also a way to square the beads to the capon. If you can make this clear to me, I appreciate it. I'm done. I'd like to know, we'd like to know what they have agreed this morning, which is that this is what everyone wants to know. I mean, will there be Hard Rock or not? Are they going to withdraw the 120 - million game, yes or no? I don't know. Do they give up expanding airports in the future? The Winter Olympics: Are they or are they not? The decree of renewables will change it, won't they change it? Now that they're friends of theirs they're going to aim for the car to also go against the Hermitage? Are you going to approve of that thing I've read...? I'm talking about rumors. Are they going to approve the...? Because it's in the press. Are they going to pass the ultra-processed tax? That even croquettes want to tax them, these. I mean, I want to know what they've agreed to. That's it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.22.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word the deputy Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.23.0	Thank you, President. Well, I'll just go into those things that I've decided are intellectually stimulating, and those that aren't will be obvious. Mr. Counsellor, socio-vergency exists. Convergence may not exist, but socio-vergency exists. The reproduction of policies historically granted by the Socialist Party and Convergence remains on the table. Socio-vergency exists. If not, explain how the great projects that you also, day after day, defend and consider vitally needed, are agreed projects in its time for Convergence and the Socialist Party: Hard Rock, Winter Olympic Games – which I remember came from when Convergence ruled the Barcelona Assembly –, Circuit de Catalunya. That is to say, let's say..., that is to say, all these projects support the basis of what is historically in this country the "socio-vergency", which reproduces an economic and social model for the country, which applies the same policies or seeks to apply the same policies. This is socio-vergency. Socio-vergency exists. And they can still defend a project like the Hard Rock Cafe under the rhetorical seemingly that there will be no public money invested there and a project that the territory demands, which is indispensable. A project that's been going on for eight years. During these eight years the government has made a proposal for alternative economic development to the Hard Rock Cafe; but the Hard Rock is indispensable for the economic development of the territory. But there is no other proposal on the table. So, do we want to make proposals for the economic development territory or do we want to save the Box there? This is socio-virgency, counselor. "Society is to defend and protect the establishment that is economically trying to impose projects or develop policies in this country. And the proposals in which both the president of his parliamentary group made a_me, as yesterday the secretary general of his party defended in a layer and spasm, respond to the'socio-vergency in this country. And, yes, indeed, we have presented a statement to the totality that went beyond the assumptions – we have said this by active and passive – because the assumptions – you have also defended it this way – it is the main law that sustains a government. Therefore, if we do not share the policies that a government ultimately owes to it, we present a totality to the law that allows this government to continue to develop a series of policies that we believe do not respond to the direction of the legislature. Now, I sometimes doubt whether your party is a bit of a legislature either, because it's up to your party this day, too. We are talking about the legislature and we are doing it directly: a challenge to the totality of the assumptions. It would also be good to clarify whether there are more exams in the legislature. I'm done. Yes, we want to throw away the precarious work of history; yes, we want to throw away those projects and policies that carry the territory and destroy the territory; yes, we want to throw away all those policies that the only one seeking is the restructuring of capitalism so that some continue to accumulate while the others and every time more people flock to the margins of history. This is the paper of history that we demand, and it does not send us anything to it, the times that are necessary, the policies that tempt against the social, economic and cultural rights of the people. And as they will say that we are the ones of no, I will say to them: no, no, it is that we defend and we defend and we are the ones of yes to life, the ones of yes to territory, the ones of yes to a paradigm shift that puts the life of all people at the center. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.24.0	Then, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the word Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.25.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, it's always a pleasure to debate with you. The truth is, it's a skillful man, he does parliamentary fencing with a certain skill, and the truth is, it's good to have a debate with you. But it's true that I want to tell you a couple of things that I think are still showing that you're still denying reality. I've been serving the middle of the Tiny Orchestra a lot, and it makes me feel like you're still playing the violin like this isn't going anywhere, not going anywhere, and your actions don't have any consequences. So no, acts in politics have consequences. And its policy for Catalonia, which is an erratic policy, which is a policy oriented, I insist, to satisfy anti-system parties, Europhobic parties, parties with a clear will to break the Catalan society and break the sentimental, economic, moral and emotional ties with the rest of Spain, with the rest of the Spanish, so it lasts..., I think it is obvious that it is leading us to decay and, ultimately, to ruin. And, in this sense, you have said something that seems to me a bit more wishful thinking, this way of hearing reality with voluntarism or even, in some cases – I don't say it's in yours – let's just say, with a certain willingness to deceive the citizenry. For one thing: when you talk about the idea that if Catalonia became an independent state the commercial relations between Catalonia and the rest of Spain would remain absolutely the same. I will quote a..., before I have quoted Ernest Lluch, who seems to me to be a very poor person as if to set it as an example, but now I will pose a person, let's say, of much more lunnian origin, who has also been to our community classing, concretely to ISE, Mr. Pankaj Ghemawat, who is not a person of Salamanca, but is a first-level economist, Harvard professor, of Indian origin, who speaks of the border effect. He talks about the effect of the border and says that the commercial relations between Catalonia – he explains – and its neighbouring communities are precisely fundamental because there is no border between Catalonia and Aragó, there is no border between Catalonia and the Valencian Community, or between Catalonia and the Balearics ; years on the contrary, between Catalonia and France this flow of commercial relations causes considerably, precisely for the existence..., even though now between the single European market this physical border no longer exists. But I want to give him an example, which is precisely what Mr Pankaj Ghemawat is asking, which is the fall in commercial relations between the Czech Republic and Slovakia after the Separation of Vellut, which he named – the Separation of Third. This Separation of Vellut took as a consequence that the trade relations between the Czech Republic and Slovakia fell by no more or less than the seventy-five_per_cent– the seventy-five_per_cent. Therefore, they are not my data, Mr. Counsellor, they are data of Mr. Pankaj Ghemawat, who seems to me an economist of difficult reputation. But in any case, the example seems paradigmatic to me, and that... it's obvious that the data tell us, the serious economists and they say that, effectively, the border effect has a fundamental influence on the commercial relations between political communities and their veins. And, therefore, I believe that we cannot need this evidence of reality. The other day he said that German politician Karl Deutsch said that nationalism is the ideology that has the best ability to inhibit rational behaviour in the subjects who profess it, or in the people who profess it. And I think it's a manifest evidence, let's say, that rational behavior is inhibited when a government does things that are clearly countered to the general interest of the citizens of Catalonia, and in this case to the economic interest of Catalonia, with the proposal to separate Catalonia from the rest of Spain, which could see'safected by this border effect. And one last question, Counselor. You were talking about references. I'd say... it was definitely a satirical comment, but in any case, it has a basis. You, as the government, have the competence to call for consultations on certain things that are within the sphere of your skills. You might, hypothetically, even though it may be a bit of a shambles, ask about the skills they have in tax matters, about their tax model. They could ask the Catalans if they want to continue paying a tax of succession that is Spain's highest, if they want to continue paying a lot of IRPF over the Spanish middle, if they want to continue paying for the lower Catalans they need to continue feeling the more abusive of Spain... This could be done according to the principle of competence, a fundamental principle that has been absolutely barred by separatism ever since the beginning of the process; it has not only been the principle of reality and the principle of legality, but also the principle of competence. And this principle of competence is what you say, precisely, that sovereignty resides in the conjunct of the Spanish people and, therefore, from the Government of the Generality, because I have become very clear, there can be no question about secession, about the separation of Catalonia from the rest of Spain. We need to be aware, simply, of the model we want for our community. And I... from the Parliamentary Group in Ciutadans we just wanted to warn you of the risks that we are going to continue in this decadent drift of our economy that has been going on for many years and that, unfortunately, it seems that you want to insist on it, you want to continue, let's say, deeper into this fall of our economy. Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.26.0	And finally has the word, on behalf of the Group Mixt, Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.27.0	Thank you very much, President. Look, Mr Giró, you know what I value personal respect and parliamentary decorum, and that is why I am obliged to move you with that respect, but firmly, three things. You say I haven't talked about poverty. I did it exactly the moment you left. I've talked about the humblest people in Catalonia. I don't know where he's gone. Perhaps my words have provoked in you some kind of physiological reaction that I apologize for ignorance and elementary education. Two. You lied. He attributed the pressure to the Rajoy government, and that's bullshit. The companies asked for it, and you know it. And yes, the entity you were running – that is, you – sent to the National Securities Market Commission "A relevant fact, that's what the document is called and it was published in the media. And if it was sent by the entity you were running, it is that you sent it, because that is called responsibility, a responsibility that you rightly appeal to in many of your interventions. Because a leader of an entity is responsible for the acts of that entity, such as the president of Barça or Madrid are responsible for the registrations they make, even if they do not like those registrations personally. I don't know if you got all that fun or not. I imagine, by his ideology, no. But you were responsible for all those decisions. That's life, sir, and you know it better than I do, that you have more experience than I do. And the third. This is the fourth time that you, in this legislature – sometimes Republican Left, sometimes Junts – discredit our opinions for our results. Indeed, we are a minority in this Parliament. You are in Congress and I have never despised you for it. Disallowing my views by the number of Members I represent shows that they lack sound arguments to rebut them and fall into the darkest and most puerile. It also demonstrates its concept of democracy, and it is that the parliamentary minority must remain silent in the face of its arithmetic crusher. Obviously, I'm not gonna shut up. You have to eat a lot of Nocilla to shut me up. And I'm gonna tell you one more thing. Indeed, only 110,000 people voted for us, but when I intervene I notice the heat not only of those 110,000 people, but of many thousands more in Catalonia who, although not voting for me, feel Catalans and Spanish, and, moreover, I feel the heat of tens of millions of Spaniards who want Catalans and other Spaniards to stay together. That heat will not feel you even in the most lustful of your wet dreams. So less wolves and more humility, Mr Giró, ladies and gentlemen, we all deserve the same respect here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.28.0	Thank you, Congressman. On the other hand, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr Joan Canadell has the word "parliamentary group".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.29.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, counselors, deputies, deputies, I see that on the screen I have fifty-two minutes. I hope this is a premonition of the strength of fifty-two percent of the votes. [[applause]] who gives us this country to make Catalonia's independence. Well, you know I'm new to politics. Actually, I still look at things a little like you're out, huh? I'm telling you, too. I'm on the coast of getting into this political world. But I'd say the people ask us, basically, two things. One, let's make it better for them. And another, let us work for the future of the country. To improve the present, the best tool that we have the policies of this chamber is the premise, that is what we are debating here today. And to improve the future, the best we have is the model of country that we all think will be better in the future. And here every one, obviously, has his own. If we are able to pull these assumptions forward, we will give a better present, because no one can deny that 5,600_million euros are a lot of money and help to overcome, to improve this present. On the other hand, falling down these assumptions would mean giving the message that we do not prioritize the welfare of the people, that in any case, we have other interests and, moreover, we do not work to transform and change the country model to a better future. If we're talking about the future, then we're talking about the country model and it's obvious, as I say, that every one of them has different approaches to who this model is to be. But fifty-two-per-cent matches would have to go to one to complete the process, because obviously, if we want a better country, if we want a better future, it's obvious that we have to get the independent state. And without fifty-two percent approved assumptions, it's obvious that we're not working hard for this goal. That said, we Catalans don't deserve these assumptions, counselor. We deserve assumptions with 52,900_million euros in admissions, because that's what we pay for. [[applause]] Catalans and Catalans and Catalan businesses, which we will pay for the year 2022 – official data of the council. But on the other hand, we will have some assumptions – apart from Chapter 9, which are not our money, they are debt – of 35,200_million. Where's the difference? You know that, right? The difference is, practically, huh? , the famous €18,000_million. Because this, as it is kept constant, is the most invariable constant ever: year back, year back, the eighth_per_cent of GDP. It's a sifra that's left here. So roughly 18,000_million euros. And where are these money going to stop? So fifty_per_cent of VAT and IRPF, fifty-eight_per_cent of the specials we cover, so forty-two_per_cent goes to the state and doesn't come back. One hundred per cent of all taxes that all businesses in this country pay. Not just the big ones, huh? Also the midgets, also the little ones, also the microphones and also the autonomies. One hundred_per_cent of the taxes paid by the entrepreneurs of this country go to Madrid and do not return. The threat to totality, therefore, should be for all Unionist parties that deny this fiscal deficit. Because for years – for years – they have allowed – yes, Mrs Romero – that Catalans cannot improve the quality of life without this fiscal deficit. [[Greetings.]] And we deeply regret that the commons party is also part of this. Because he also denies the tax deficit. It does the same as the PSC does and it does the same as Citizens do, it does the same as PP does and it does the same as VOX does. They deny the tax deficit. Sincerely, unionists, for someone who has not experienced politics, it is strange to think that you accept that, every year, every català pays 2,300 euros in taxes to the State and does not serve to improve the policies of this country. It's very expensive to hear. And for a family, we're talking – a family of four members – of almost nine thousand euros. That maybe we don't have problems with Catalans? Maybe we don't need those money? That we don't have poverty? That we don't have kids who kick? That we don't have any money for roulettes? And the worst thing about it is that our money has not been used either to improve the quality of life of Spaniards. They have served to maintain a decadent state, an oligarchic state, a corrupt monarchy, unjust courts and a "for them unthinkable to any country in Europe". A state that has launched our money in trains without passengers, in airports without planes, cars, submarines that sink and Castor placards and many other forms of indirect corruption. And while the oligarchy stands in this state that favors a few families, the state is at the top of everything that really matters to people. Spain has the highest profile in Europe. Last year we passed in Greece, which is the only one left for us to overcome. It is one of the countries with the lowest level of knowledge of English, with the highest loss of GDP during the pandemic and who is most struggling to recover the previous levels. Leaders in school failures, in public debt, with minimum interprofessional salaries that are practically lower than anyone else. And a long, et cetera of negatious memories. Spanish is the champion. The champion of the majority of indicators negatios. I'm sorry about that. But once in a while, with determination. We cannot leave the Spanish passport to our children as an inheritance. And I'm convinced that millions of Catalans will continue to work because they're not. Catalonia, unfortunately, still forms part of Spain and, therefore, cannot be better, because much of the skills and resources to solve these problems are in the State. So long as we don't get out of it, we won't be able to improve them significantly. But still, Catalonia saw a different situation, as shown by the data that was shown to them by Congressman Tremosa a few days ago and that Councilman Giró also explained today. Only three highlights. Exports. 2022 have already recovered, as we have said, and have exceeded or will exceed the 2019 jifra. What's that supposed to mean? So it means that our companies are competitive, because, if not, they couldn't export as they are exporting. And that means that our companies have felt the opportunity to continue to open world markets. Mr. Martin Blanco, it's been 20 years, the Catalans, the Catalan companies, we came to the Spanish state for the sixty-six percent of everything we came out of; today, we've reversed it, it's the other way around, and we're only coming for the thirty-three percent. If it takes a lot of independence, probably this border effect that you say will no longer be heard because, practically, we will sell very little. The Airef also tells us that growth in Catalonia in the third quarter was 3.4_per_cent and, in change, in Madrid only 1.6. Why is this happening? So why do we always go, far from history, when we get out of the crises, we're the ones that open up, we're the ones that go forward, and then you see Madrid and take advantage of the best of our economy. So, it goes back to the same thing that's always happened. And then, the third indicator I want to talk about. Catalonia has one point per sota de Madrid and four points per sota de la mitjana spanyola. How do you explain that Catalonia has a much lower stake than in Spain, with everything that the union parties have gone through? The European media is between the sixth and the set_per_cent; Spain is at fourteen; we are just between the god and the eleven_per_cent. Catalonia, out of Spain, would tend as much as Portugal. Do you know what Portugal is? 6.4_per_cent. What Catalan policy that defends the present and future well-being of Catalans can defend following Spain with these figures? Do you know that the September CIS is the main concern of the citizens? The people I've been told before have spoken of the twilight. Who doesn't care about anyone? Listen, the outsiders, it's all about the things they care about the most. Don't you see how far we're from the city? Not all parties, like the common ones, how do they plan to solve the weather to complete the full occupation? Clear, 'cause we're gonna have to do something. Remember, please: people want a better present and we give them a worthy future. Do they really believe that this is the future that our children deserve? People disconnect from politics because you see that we don't work to solve their problems, to give future opportunities for the child or to help in the old age of the peers. Negotiating the Generality's assumptions to change the demands of the Barcelona Assembly and the Spanish Government is not thinking about people, it's thinking about their cadres, ladies and gentlemen of the commons. [[Greetings.]] The Catalonian Parliament is going to discuss the assumptions of the Catalans, because here is the sovereignty of all Catalans, and not the Assembly of Barcelona or the Congress of Deputies. You, lords of the commons, have made the pact of the Mercat de Sant Antoni a diumenge: to change chromes to continue governing the assembly and the State; in short, to continue to make this political old. And, for another band, we also warn you that Junts for Catalunya will be the guarantee that Ada Colau's model in Barcelona is not transferred to the rest of the country. [[Greetings.]] And if we're talking about the future, from Juntes to Catalunya, we think the only way to ensure a country of opportunity is independence. But in order to be independent, on the 14th of February, people voted for us and gave us a warrant. We were able to interpret this mandate with two parliamentary agreements: what the CUP did with the Republican Left and what the Republican Left did with us. And, as a result of these agreements, President Aragonès, in this faristol, committed himself to culminating independence in this legislature. The legislature had to have two parts, a first one of dialogue with the state and a second of debate to culminate; that's why we invested the president from Junts. Without a government with fifty-two per cent, the legislature will be touched and will put this compromise at risk, and the members of the UPC know that. And the question we're asking ourselves is, what do we get out of the whole CUP? Did independence win with a pact with the commons? It's hard to think that it prioritizes its country model from not all to the culmination of independence – I say it with all humility. That's why the Junta Group is asking the CUP for responsibility with the country, with fifty-two percent of the independence votes, and we remember them having and sharing the commitment to work for a new fight. We ask ourselves how the agreement now stands that facilitated the investiture only six months later; the agreements change, we didn't know how fast. We ask ourselves, in any case, what remains of this commitment of the confidence that Esquerra agreed with the CUP. Although we didn't sign it, we think we have a right to ask, and the independentist voter surely deserves to know. And the other question we ask ourselves is whether the president will prefer to continue to deal with a non-independence party that carries hard against the governing partner. Because all this doesn't feel if we don't walk decisively towards independence. If what we want to do is turn one hundred and twenty degrees to autonomy, we won't be able to find ourselves. [[Greetings.]] We are the ones in the confrontation with the State, the ones to preserve the mandate of October 1 and the ones that we have always – always – put the unit forward. The route is not a unit of independence, it's autonomy and it's the prelude to a new tripartite. [[Greetings.]] Managing the while is not easy for anyone – sure that at the UPC it generates many contradictions; obviously, also for us – but for whom it defends the social bests with the intensity of the UPC it is incomprehensible that I renounced a presumption with 5,600_million euros more. Because – let us not deceive ourselves – if you do not like the country model of the sixty-five members of the government, which often counts on the support of a hundred members of the chamber, you can also impose your model with nine members, even though the eight of the common ones have been added. I'm new to politics – I've already told you – but it seems to me that nine Members weigh much less than sixty-five, and say much less than a hundred. These were not to be the presuppositions of the while, they were to be the first presuppositions of the legislature of the culmination for the preparation of the definite agenda, and that is why the seventy-four Members are calling us together to do so. And that's what people ask of us. We understand your doubts, members of the CUP. Our group also in you, when we observe the progress of the dialog table. But we are a responsible party that completes with the agreements, which, once accepted a period of up to two years for the dialog table, we still have to respect it and continue working for the present of the people with the approval of those we consider the best possible assumptions. Esquerra companies, it tastes hard, but it looks like the pact's gonna last them a while, huh? , this pact with the CUP. It would have been very good for us to have completed what they said to us, to be in parallel with an investment and presupposition agreement. These agreements made with press aren't always the best solution, and we still think that a three-band agreement had more options for success. But we have to say that the UPC is also right when they say that we are in a phase of stagnation of the process and that this will not solve any more trouble than it is between independents. Each time we have less time to prepare for the debate that society asked for most of us on the 14th of February, and closing an agreement with the commons is extending to us every more time of the debate. With this agreement that they have made between communes and Esquerra, left the political majority of fifty-two per cent – politics, not social. Most people, who each time are longer than us, continue to want us to move towards independence and to do so with determination and speed. And surely today, after the Chrome Change Accord, it's still less like we want independence to culminate. People always ask us together on the street. We have gone from lists of units to strategic unit, to action unit, to the wide track, which ends up feeling a left track. On the next few days, we'll need to follow the independent parties and see if we can fix this left or if it's definitely a dead end. And it has to be done three bands between the fifty-two-per-cent matches and not with bilateral agreements that after that do not feel effective. Nor did six months last for this agreement. Mrs. Albiach, I'm not going to attack her personally like you did, huh? With me. I don't have a year in politics, I'm a simple elected deputy for the people and he's already told me a facsimile, xenophobic, expelling, and compared me to Mr. Albiol. For someone who's never been in politics before, that seems, honestly – and with affection, huh? –.... looks like a political old man. I will not attack him personally; in any case, I will defend myself with arguments. But all of a sudden, I can't be told that by xenophobic, pheasist and expelling, a manel Valls appears to me. Do I remember? [[Some applause.]] Gentlemen of the commons, welcome; welcome to the presuppositions of the Councillor Giró, the presuppositions of Junts per Catalunya, the best presuppositions we can have. They say rectifying is wise. Neither one hundred or twenty-five degrees nor – let me do a frivolity – 1.5 degrees: no major change, no resignation, no key project failed to stop. This shows that these are good assumptions, and you know it. We understand that today the common lords rectify..., will rectify, from today, all their speeches against the commons..., against Junts – forgive, against Junts. We have already advised you that Together are the bulwark that will not allow you to do with Catalonia what you are doing at the Barcelona Assembly. [[Greetings.]] In any case, you give a government that has some very important projects in the country, such as converting the Prat airport into an intercontinental airport hub, the Olympic Games, after the consultation we have undertaken, or projects to boost sustainable and quality tourism. What we hope is that you, moreover, will not prevent the arrival of the 1,600_millions destined for the covid fund, and that you will get our group to Madrid. That would be working against the Catalans. This week I heard you say, Mrs Albiach, that the commons want that until later the euro reaches the Catalan lars. But, Mrs. Albiach, if forty per cent of the taxes we pay Catalans to Madrid go in and don't come back! Go claim this forty per cent! If you believe what you say, they fight to eliminate the tax deficit. Be brave! Don't be denied the tax deficit, assume it's a reality and push the independence train. I also remember that if they want to negotiate any changes in the assumptions, they will have to approve it to the commissions, and my group is not in a position to approve policies against the Catalonia of yes. Together for Catalonia is the guarantee because you don't mean Catalonia as you have done with Barcelona. Ah, and, Mrs. Albiach, we're hoping you'll now ask the Junts members to raise the veto to the dial table, huh? Wait for him. Mr. Illa, you are the head of the opposition and by definition leads the opposition against the government, but we also remind you that a majority of others are possible in this chamber with you as president. And, therefore, by responsibility he might not have presented the motion and allowed the citizens of Catalonia to have these best assumptions without problems. [[Widow's remorse.]] Obviously, with the 155 we didn't want to negotiate at any time and you need to hear [[remorse of the voice]] ... and you must understand that this will continue to be so while the real policies of the Spanish Government continue to feel repression with the more than three thousand affected by the process, persecution of President Puigdemont and all exiles, and while the right of self-determination and amnesty for reprisals is not respected. The responsibility that we find to be lacking in you is not only in facilitating the processing of assumptions, we would have liked to see it also in the processing of 155, in the execution of assumptions of all the infrastructures, in the covid funds, in the transfers of rolls and, in short, of all the difficulties that we will have time to put on the table when we speak of historical debt. I insist that we do not deal with 155, the only recent pacts with the PSOE do not come from our political space. It's pacts that have a place in Congress of Deputies and it seems they're in exchange for nothing. Mrs Romero – Mrs Romero –, you cheat with the ciphers, eh? He was going to answer it, but Mr. Giró has already done very well; therefore, I will get rid of this space. In which I do want to insist is on the extraordinary covid fund, because the pandemic has not ended and, therefore, we hope that you will remain paternal of Minister Montero so that here you arrive at these moneys, these 1,600_millions that we have achieved in Madrid. [[Some applause.]] Miss Romero, I know you don't like it, but 52,900_millions are much more than 35,200 teachers. You help them get back from the state in the form of FLA, they don't generate Spanish people paying their taxes, they're not the fruit of their work, huh? Do you understand that? They come from the Spanish public debt, which is also part of the Catalan debt, and that the day we divorce will definitely have to go to the mediator to distribute conveniently. But now it's also our debt. But it is clear that without the fiscal deficit there should not be a single euro of FLA, it is only necessary to make numbers: 18,000_million. Not a euro. A little respect for serious things and that's a lot of it: it's not fair that our money's over making these tripijocs. I know very hard, because I have a lot of respect, and I know very hard that you play with the fruit of the efforts of all Catalans. And about the democratic quality you spoke of Catalonia..., well, I had to go to print the article you mentioned about Ostrom, and, look, this article says: "Spain is the country that has returned most in institutional quality to Europe during the pandemic. That's what this study says, huh? I say: « Spain has retreated in institutional quality and Catalonia in Spain and in the European Union. Clearly, of course, our democratic quality has gone badly, but why... [[Rialles. Some applause.]] No – no –, it's escort'm, the general mark legislative is his, eh? And according to The Economist, Spain has moved from seven to twenty-two. Or rather, it's better that I don't talk about democratic quality. Counselor Giró, we want to congratulate you, you and your entire team. He knew how to make assumptions that were not easy people, with a disset_per_cent more inputs, with a budgetary deficit limited to 0.6_per_cent, and, above, reduce public debt by 2.2 points, placing it under thirty-four_per_cent, when the Spanish state is 122_per_cent. You deserve all our support and thank you. I want to take this opportunity to remind you, once more, that the State has a public deficit for its Administration of 2022 of 3.9_per_cent, and we only have 0.6_per_cent. This will represent more than 40,000_million euros, of which approximately 8,000 would have to be for Catalonia. You know what's gonna happen, right? That these 8,000 won't arrive and one more part will be tax-deficit. Let me make a prognostic: 2022, when we have the data, which we will trigare long enough, will be the year in absolute fiscal deficit in Catalonia, and will pass, will exceed 20,000_million euros; I have no doubt. Congratulations, therefore, counselor, to complete the deadline and keep the assumptions prepared so that from the '1 of gene can be executed. It was obvious that I had no sense of making assumptions for the 21st, that neither would we have had time to execute them, nor would we have arrived in time, then, to make assumptions for the 22nd because the 1st generation was available. But you said assumptions or assumptions, and I am convinced that we will have them, and that these will be very good assumptions, with the situation we have. Mr. Turned, you're a god; let me just go: it's our god. Many thanks for your great work and we are convinced that the assumptions Turned will mark before and after the present and future of the Catalans. And he did it with patience, without blowing, with a party that finally preferred to put forward a country model that shows that the polls are not clearly majority, and, obviously, they have all the right to do so, but in any case it is not the general feeling of fifty-two percent of the independenceists. It is customary to pass, when independence requires the CUP, that the CUP makes the CUP. From the high and clear days of Junts we will not accept the use of the presuppositionary procedures to negotiate the country model. And, in any case, we regret that this majority of fifty-two per cent was used to leave it. But we recognize that these last few months we have not seen that you have a clear translation on a full route to prepare the job. They are also the prerequisites of the transformation of the country model. I've spoken before people expect future, expect us to talk about future opportunities. We want to make independence to change the country model, to develop our full potential, with our own resources – we don't want anyone else's gifts – but the process is unfortunately widening. October 2017 we didn't get out of it because there wasn't enough unity of the games, but we moved on to resume the dialog, and, in fact, it's what the people asked us to do on the 14th of February. A technical challenge led by Esquerra, with one more deputy, and with the need of the members of the CUP to pull the strike forward. President Aragones wanted to put it forward, but he agreed with the state, and the CUP granted it there with a two-year limit, of which we have not passed more than half a mile. Together we couldn't unlink, because it was what the majority wanted, but it wasn't the full route we wanted. We'd rather talk about the embatt immediately with the whole independence world. And we're still waiting for Esquerra and CUP to plant the situation to add and work for the culmination. Meanwhile, there is a great need for people to get out of the crisis and these are presuppositions designed and prepared for this. But we also need to transform the country as we prepare for the new battle. We need to take advantage of the time to move forward, with less than we would have with a new state, but we need to move forward. Now it seems that it is fashionable to talk about transformations, about the transformations that the country needs, and every one has its own. But no one is wrong: these transformations cannot be made fully until we have all the tools of a state, not only the economics but also the legislative ones. But, entertaining, we must advance in all we can and with 5,600_million we will also advance in this transformation. The president wanted it to be a legislature of the four transformations, but one of them would have fallen if these assumptions were not approved: the feminist, curiously one of the themes that the CUP asked the most in this chamber. With extended assumptions, this department was left without resources to make the real transformation that the country needs, to work for the full equality of men and women, to protect the rights of the people, to create us services of attention to victims of male violence, in LGBTI policies, the promotion of equity in work and the co-education and promotion of values and equal models, among others. The green transformation was also heavily affected by resource reduction in decarbonization of mobility and active climate action policies. And in the social transformation, unfortunately, we also lost 900_million, which made it very difficult to overcome the crisis created by the covid and the one that we already pay to the covid. That's why we asked the president to intervene in the negotiations with the CUP, because he asked them to complete his government agreement and we could engineer the transformation that brought the country and the better policies to all departments. But, for Juntes, these transformations are short, and we think we need, above all, to turn Catalonia into an economic key. And we have to do this to a real knowledge society and with territorial balance. And for this, the Vice-President's Department, Digital Policies and Territories has a 20-i-new_per-cent higher assumption, to develop priority axes of the European Union, such as digitization, decarbonization and territorial balance. But it is also the department that works most, together with Universities, to create this new model of country based on the society of knowledge; with the empowerment of artificial intelligence, quantum technology, blockchain, the economy of space; with the extension of optical fiber to the whole country, which will be bid or finished during 2022; also with the digitization of the economy, the strengthening of technological centres, which help to capture new investments of multinationals, seeking talent and technological infrastructure. Catalonia is becoming a hub of technological hubs, and that's thanks to the work we've done years ago and that you, counselor, and you, counselor, are sure to continue doing more. This is the transformation that Catalonia needs in the 21st century. Not just reindustrialisation. Industrialization is a concept of the 20th century. Just those that we have led to the south of Europe industrialisation from the 16th to the 20th century now we have to be able to lead the new economy of the 21st century. And both the vice president and constable Geis are very clear. By the way, Mrs Romero, I'm going to ask you again. How can you say that Catalonia does not bet on research and development? Catalunya... [[Widow's remorse.]] Do you know where the only vaccine against the covid has come from since it's proven effective? You know that, don't you? Do you know that Catalonia invests 1.5_per_cent in research, development and innovation, and the State not above 1,2_per_cent? And do you know that we have set ourselves as an objective to reach 2,2_per_cent in this legislature? You know that, don't you? So listen to me, we obviously are an innovative, creative and clearly bet on technological and research infrastructures. The problem is that there are no resources. The Catalonia of yes that we want is the Catalonia that allows many companies in Catalonia to pay salaries exceeding fifty thousand euros per year to young talented people, in highly technological sectors, who can sometimes pay their taxes and help pay the pensions of our big and social services of all people. Gentlemen of the CUP, a model of country that is only based on reindustrialisation or co-operativeism, with minimum Spanish salaries of 965_euros, will not maintain the social welfare of the future. And that's why we don't go to your economic model. To reindustrialize the country yes, but with added value and also betting with the economy of the services, with logistics, the tourism of quality and sustainable, which, obviously, has always had a lot of fish in Catalonia and which will continue to have. Senyora Reguant, Catalunya held a twenty-i-sis_percent of industrial GDP in the year 2000. Certainly, at that time he was converging. Downloaded the dinosaur_per_cent in 2009. Certainly, at that time he was handling the tripartite. And now, from abroad, he's been holding on and, anyway, he's been pushing up to twenty-one percent. But what is the industry you want? Is it about quantity or quality? Because if you wanted to convert Catalonia into a Poland or a Romania, with a high level of low-value industrialization added, we wouldn't agree. In any case, we bet to turn Catalonia into a Nordic state in southern Europe. And we want to take advantage of all the potential we have as a country and all the opportunities to generate wealth and well-being for everyone. This is the transformation we want. And another thing, Mrs. Regant. Indeed, if they want to end the Spanish oligopolises we only have one option, which is independence; it's the only one. And that I'm sure the three independent parties would agree. I, moreover, after independence sees a process constitute. This is where we have to make an independent Catalan state never ever become a controlled and dominated space for oligopolises. That's where we can do it. As we follow the Spanish State, we can't do this without the means. We work hard for the unit and, if that's the case, we'll lie down fast to independence. If every one goes to his own, independence goes away. I don't know where. Before I finish, I want to defend the policies of the departments in short form. If we're talking about the Department of Enterprise and Work, which I see the counselor has left, we have a key challenge to drive this reindustrialisation. But, like, with added value, huh? Also the best of the occupation. And this is a very important issue. I've spoken before; the inverse of the inverse of the inverse is occupation. How can we have a youthful trek close to thirty per cent, or higher than thirty per cent, and that twenty-five per cent of the people in this country tell us that they don't find qualified personnel and that they can't grow up because they don't find qualified personnel? And that the seventy-nine percent of the entrepreneurs in this country tell us that they have difficulty finding qualified personnel? Well, in any case, what we have to do is continue to enhance internationalization, as we have said before. Also international investments, and here Action is a very important game to continue capturing international investments. Also the transformation of tourism, with a new law of more sustainable tourism, more adapted to the 2030 agenda, encouraging deseasonalization and deconcentration. We agree. A model of greater value added and more diversified. But tourism has been and must continue to be one of the highlights of Catalonia's wealth generation. And as much as ordinary and cuparians do not want it, the rest of the Members, as has been made clear in various votes, we do want it. This department – and I've said that on some occasion to Councillor Torrent – has the greatest challenge since the Transition, and it is arriving for the first time at full occupancy. Portugal, as I said before, has a 6,4_per_cent. There is no argument to justify that all the small states of Europe – all of them – are fully occupied. To all of Portugal. And, in change, Catalonia is still on top of the god. Well, there is a reason, and it's that Spain is at fourteen per cent. And we're still from Spain. We are surprised that all parties that call themselves left to the chamber did not speak, therefore, of this opportunity and need to settle the full occupation. Demonstrate that they continue to elongate the needy of the people. But we need to give a vision of the future. We need to develop the full potential of this country to move towards full employment. The meeting of Enterprise and Work had as its main reason this objective, and for this more resources to the SOC, with a transformation because it allows to cover the real needs of the labor market and that it allows us to grow in a sustainable way and with European wages. Minimum wages in Europe are in the order of EUR 1,400 and we have to go, we have to get these salaries. While we're still in Spain we won't be able to do it, because Spain can't have... as the country doesn't compete with a Spanish with 1,400_euros. Catalunya would be. Therefore, we have to work among all because this is a reality. In Climate Action and Agriculture, the assumptions presented are the highest that the Generality has ever had and must enable us to reactivate the economy and the fabric of production also in the rural world and pagesia, and in the renewable energy transformation of our country, focusing on the mitigation of climate change. We don't believe, from our group, in public energy. We voted for them on their day in accordance with the agreement signed between Esquerra and the CUP, but it is not our model. We are betting to properly regulate the sector, and not as regulated now, victim of these oligopolises and the revolving doors. And we bet decisively on renewables. For what it does to education, we plan to go towards the universalization and progressive gratuity of education between zero and three years; the fight against school segregation; continue to deploy the inclusive school decree, since it is vitally needed, and, ultimately, strengthen the model of Catalan school that we defend and that is endorsed by the law of education of Catalonia. All this, with a firm commitment to work in vocational training, with a match of 23_million euros destined to develop the shoc plan in FP. And this is one of the key factors for growth in quality employment, and that is how the implementation of the digital education plan will allow us to do so. For what it does in the field of Justice, we arrive for the first time at 2.8_percent of the total presumption, when 2.5 had always been claimed as a minimum. They are necessary money to strengthen justice as an agile, modern and clean public service, through a model of criminal execution of reintegration into the society of our interns and increasing decisively and continuously the fight against one of the massacres of our society: the rape of gender. In Salut we are almost doubling the pressure in public salvation, with a seventy-five per cent increase, with more professionals, increasing the endowment to enhance mental salvation, the infantojuvenile, the plan of prevention of suicide... And we bet clearly on primary and community care. But what's most important, truly, to Salut are the covid funds, these 1,600_million euros that I've already mentioned. The Department of Foreign Affairs and Open Government will allow us to open nine delegations to regions where we have not yet been present and strengthen the operational capabilities we already have. And the "Catalonia", country of data program will group the data of the public service, private and civic, to take over the Catalan citizens, we aspire to absolve up to 1_million of records available in this portal. The defence of Catalonia's national interests to Europe and the world, as a political subject and as a nation aspiring to be a member of the international community, is key. In Social Rights and Habitatge increases a 30,3_per_cent more than the presupposition of 2020, a 156_per_cent the presupposition of Habitatge, with nine residential places for large people, people with disabilities or mental illness, and in the construction of new equipment. And in the interior we increase a new_per_cent to attend to a better of the security and emergence of our citizenry, with the firm stake in the endowment and structure of the bodies in 735 effect, in the selection process of 1,500 more effects that will be incorporated in the length of 2022, as well as the better in the night factor of the units of citizen security, strengthening and reinforcing the professional career of firefighters and in the stake for the creation of the structure of management of rural agents, with double effect. To sum up – and I finish – our group defends the Catalonia of yes, starting for itself an independent state and as soon as possible, because we need the resources that we generate in order to be able to transform the country much more quickly; but also yes to this society of knowledge; yes to a country with full occupation and quality; yes to this balanced territory, with life and decent work; yes to a country connected to the world, internationalized and close-minded; yes to a more sustainable economy and energetically sovereign; yes to a country with a democratic quality, and yes to build a real society of welfare based on the fruit of our work, because Catalans always – always – we have gained working life. In short, we defend the yes to the presuppositions of the counselor Giró. And, of course, we would vote no to totality reviews. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.30.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word the deputy Mr Lluís Salvadó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.31.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors... thank you, Counselor Giró, for your exposure. MPs and MPs, very late. Well, I'll try not to exhaust fifty-two minutes for the sake of all present. We're wearing an intense week, a very intense week-end, and practically five hours ago in the east plenary of Parliament, debating the Generality's draft assumptions by 2022. We have been able to listen to the different visions of respect: the visions of the different parliamentary groups that have presented the challenge to the totality, the visions of the Government, the visions of some of the groups that are supposed to support this project of assumptions. And we hope that after that we will see and listen to the view of the commons very carefully. And as usual in the presuppostarial debate, the positions that are expressed here are of the presuppositions, obviously, but above all they are from that political position that each of the parliamentary groups wants to express or to transfer to the citizenry respects the governance of the country. And especially, at times as convulsive, as complicated as we are living, this is a particularly transcendent aspect. And I say this without undermining in any way some of the passionate debates that have ended up respecting some of the aspects that the assumptions bring, and much less without bearing in mind the transformative capacity and the import of assumptions like today's ones from the table. In the first place, and before entering the background of the question, they will allow me to give thanks and congratulate Councillor Giró and his entire team. They have presented ambitious political assumptions, impeccable assumptions from the technical perspective and, above all, rigorous and economically sustainable assumptions. They are very good assumptions and they will certainly be much better from the contributions of the different parliamentary groups in the debate and, in particular, from the contributions of the parliamentary group of the commons with the whole package of measures announced and agreed this week. The resultant assumptions that will certainly be the best possible in the autonomic situation, in the current situation. And I would also like to thank, on behalf of my parliamentary group and certainly also on behalf of my party, the President of the Generality and his team. [[applause]] ...,give thanks to the President for taking the leadership not only of the Government of the Generality, but also the leadership of the country. Counselor Giró said "presuppositions or presuppositions, and we absolutely share that. It is very transcendent for the country in the moments we are living that these assumptions are approved. But to approve them to work until the last minute, to not get up from the table of dialect, to assume the legitimate diversity of this Parliament, of the different parliamentary groups that configure what the president calls the broad path of sovereignism. Next, I will try to expose the visit of my parliamentary group on the basis of four reflections. A first reflection, in which I will try to explain the transcendence and the importance of dealing with and, later, approving these assumptions. Secondly, it should be pointed out that we find ourselves ahead of economically sustainable accounts in the medium and long term. Thirdly, that we are faced with assumptions that attempt to respond to the social needs, expansive in a situation of the post-pandemic crisis. And finally, and in fourth place, I will try to explain that they are assumptions that respond to the government's will to transform reality. About the first point. We are convinced that there are objectively irrefutable reasons to defend the transcendence of the approval of these assumptions. Unlike other previous exercises in which the presuppositional prorogation did not have such an economic impact, at a time when everything changed, the presuppositional prorogation at this time would leave the Government of the Generality and, ultimately, the country with many less tools to enable us to dispose of these presuppositions. From the moment they approved the assumptions of 2020, which, as you must recall, was just at the heart of the pandemic, our society and our economy has changed radically. During these last twenty months we have seen the collapse of Catalonia's gross domestic product and of the rest of the world; we have seen how the world has risen, how it has fallen again; we have seen how inflation has spread as ugly many years we have not seen; we have seen our health system overflow; we have seen the third-year residences overflow, before a situation for which the world was not prepared. And we have seen the fragility and untenability of an economy based on massive mobility of tourists and food products. And we're seeing how energy prices have multiplied. We were going to see how Anglo-Terra there were sub-administration sizes, how Xina had electricity sizes. And we have also assumed, for another band, in this post-pandemic, the relevancy of having a public administration prepared for the work and for the attention to the citizenry through telematic systems. That's why the CTTI's premise is fundamental, among many other things. And also the importance of building an educational system more competent in digital technologies. These assumptions do not only provide €5,000_million to deploy departmental spending, but also provide various tools to address a part of all these structural changes and also to drive the transformation that the country needs at this time. Today, citizens need governments to have nine tools to deal with all these changes. We have nine ways to face all the new paradigms and needs that have occurred with the pandemic, and to face the climate change. And these tools we need all governments – all of them. Each of his or her powers and responsibilities, from assemblies to the Generality, and also the Government of the State. And despite the fact that we will certainly have more items in this plenary than we have ever seen – more items in total than we have seen – we have also seen many parliamentary groups more than ever willing to negotiate, to dialogue, to come together to find solutions. And as soon as today's vote is over, it is good that up to five parliamentary groups we have expressed our willingness to try to find presumptive agreements, even after we have heard certain speeches, perhaps not so many. [[Some applause.]] Five groups, maybe not so many. Five groups or perhaps not so many that we have opened the door to forming part of these solutions, of these solutions that the citizenry needs, overcoming the political differences that we separate. From the Republican Left Group we want to thank and recognize the compromise of all these formations with the people, with the citizenry and also with the country. I would especially like to thank the parliamentary group of the commons. They have already been the protagonists of an act of responsibility, they have been the protagonists of the approval of the presuppositions of the Generality of 2020. And today they again demonstrate their vocation to be part of the solutions. And, for what it seems, we will find, the two political formations, in the negotiations of the assumptions of the Barcelona Assembly, of the Generality and also of the State. And I hope that too many more gatherings. We do what we do because we seem, and now more than ever, we have to be on the side of people, on the side of the country. Also from the people of Barcelona. Because these assumptions that we are debating today are good, above all, and also good, for Barcelona. They're good for the barcelons and for the barcelons. And it is a shame to recognize that both from the parliamentary group of the commons and from the companies of the Republican Left of Barcelona, you will make possible the approval of some more powerful ones in order to be able to transform the country, assuming the own contradictions in favor of the general interest, taking away the tactics of short flight. Thank you very much, Ernest. [[Greetings.]] And I am convinced that Barcelona's assumptions will be much better without depending on the influence of Valls, and that Catalonia will be much better equipped with assumptions, having these assumptions, than having them. We would also like to express our gratitude to the Parliamentary Group of the CUP. We are aware of the limits that each political formation has and are particularly aware of the political differences that exist between the CUP and some of the parties that form part and that support the Government of Catalonia, and especially for this reason we value their efforts, we value their willingness to work tirelessly to build a majority of transformation and to give felt to the independence majority in this Parliament. Today, it will probably not be possible to visualize this independenceist majority around the project of these assumptions. We liked that you were different, I have to recognize you, obviously. Everything has been easier – everything has been much easier. But I'm sure we'll continue to work together in everything we share, that we seem to be much more, during which we're left in the legislature. For our part, trust remains unsensible. Beyond the conjunctures, we know that we share a very important part of the horizon of the future, the horizon of national freedom and social transformation. Preserving most of the fifty-two-per-cent of this Parliament means knowing how to settle political discrepancies, meaning knowing how to respect discrepancies on some conjunctural aspects. Regarding the second reflection. They are expanding assumptions, but they are also assumptions that do not lose sight of the need to ensure sustainability in the medium and long term of the Generality's finances. Presuppositions that continue and consolidate the work done for previous executions to the presuppositions of 2017 and to the presuppositions of 2020. An important challenge that brings to an end the Department of Economics and History many years ago to consolidate fiscally the Government of Catalonia and to stabilize the financial situation of our country. A task that has allowed to stabilize the debt around thirty_per_cent, as are the objectives that set the project assumptions. Therefore, in our country's debt there is a clear downward trend. But we have also allowed the detail to stand in the way of spending, driving ambitious social policies. Nor can we lose sight of the reference of sustainability financed, because, as you know, a good part of the increments that reflect the project of assumptions are increments of conjunctural character, of non-recurring character and that come, practically, from three origins. First of all, the European Commission's decision to pull forward, to enable the safeguard clause to be activated, enabling restrictions on deficit and debt to be suspended. This makes it possible to dispose of an additional €1,500 million in these assumptions. Secondly, of the decisions, also, of the European Commission to approve the Next Generation funds, which contribute, as has been said, 2,142_million euros to these assumptions, to the finalist expenditure of these assumptions. And, thirdly, the third source of extraordinary non-recurring entries that is reflected in these assumptions is the result of a dialog, a negotiation between the State and the Generality: around 1,036_million euros that come from the regularization of the incompliments of the third additional provision, the regularization of the VAT of 2017 and the financing of the Mossos d'Esquadra. Of the 5,600_million euros that the expenditure does not finance from this project of assumptions– of 5,600 –, 4,600 come from non-recurring sources, from the deficit, from the European funds and from the regularizations of the state's incompliments. In fact, non-financial non-finalist entries only grow in a 1.5_per_cent in two years, since the year 2020, and they do so based on extraordinary entries of the regularizations of the State, without which they have fallen a 2.4_per_cent. For these reasons, we seem to be very aware that, while being an expansionary assumption, they are kept in terms of strict sustainability financed by a 0.6_per_cent of the deficit and with an objective of reducing debt. Third thought. They are assumptions that try to respond to the expanding social needs of the post-pandemic country. The government departments, as has been said, will have 5,600_million euros more: 5,022 in which is the departmental expenditure, a 17,3_per_cent more; 1,009_million euros more for the Department of Education; 1,456 more for the Department of Health; 905 more for the Department of Social Rights. As has been explained, most of the tickets, the increments that this law raises, are destined for social policies. And it is essential that we face the fate of this crisis, as explained by the President all too often, from expansive policies, without falling back on the mistakes of 2010, without returning to those details that were in the context of a poorly understood austerity. It may well be that, for another band, while the autonomous financing model managed by the State contributes to these assumptions of EUR 1,000_million less than 2020, the system of tax props and divestitures managed by the Generalitat provides EUR 590_million more. We must be aware that if today we can come up with assumptions that respond to the needs of the moment we are living is for the responsibility, for the fiscal demands we have assumed in this parliamentary chamber and the Government of Catalonia for many years. Tax rulings which today allow, although some do not like them, to collect EUR 160_million from the tax on polluting vehicles, EUR 155_million from the tax on installations with an impact on the environment, EUR 780 from the tax on estates, EUR 650 from the tax on assets, among others. Two thousand million euros that we have decided in this chamber, which the Government of Catalonia has decided, that other communities can afford the luxury of not recapturing. But without what these assumptions we would have to paint the oil. [[Greetings.]] The will of this chamber to deploy its own sources of finance and to build an environmentally ambitious taxation goes far and wide. He sees the presuppositionary pacts that in 2014 and 2015 the current President of the Generality and Councillor Mas-Colell incorporated into the presuppositions of the 14th and 15th; he sees the pacts between Junts per el Si and the CUP l'any 2017, and he sees the pacts between the majority that currently support the Government and the group of the commons. A fiscal architecture that today allows us to structure the premise of the Generality, avoid making detailed assumptions and be able to attend to the basic needs of our public services. A tax model that we have built at the length of the last decade with the crowd of left-wing formations of this Parliament, starting with the CUP, passing through the Republican Left and ending with the group of commons. However, all this evidence also shows a difficult structural failure of the current autonomous financing system. A system that does not guarantee structural entrances to cover the needs of the country's citizens. He never guarantees them. But now, when we lack additional resources to deal with all the needs the country needs at this time, from the autonomous financing system to the €1,000_million bill. Fourth and final reflection. We are also ahead of assumptions that respond to the Government of Catalonia's intention to transform. And they will allow me, with the time I have left, to reinforce some of the aspects that the Councillor has commented and have commented on other parliamentary groups. I will try to stick strictly to what reflects the draft assumptions, basically, in respect of the group of commons who will intervene later and seems to me to be more adhering to those who can explain some of the extremes that form part of this agreement between the Government and the parliamentary group of the commons. I suppose the assumptions that we are debating today reflect elements of much ambition and others not so much. Surely one of the most ambitious is the growth of public workers. A few els do for, this increment of public workers. And we have felt, not only today in other interventions, critical speeches respect this growth, an increase of 29,000 workers for the different public systems of our country; 29,000 workers that are distributed in about 18,000 specifics to the health system – more metgeses, more metgeses, more nurses, more nurses; 5,500 more teachers, more teachers and teachers; 1,122 movements of squadrons, bombers, rural agents, a very important contribution to a system of public function that has been stressed for many years, that during the years since 2010, it has suffered the presuppostarial adjustments and that, especially since the crisis of the covid-19, it has not been stressed, but has been absolutely overcome. Therefore, it is an absolutely justified growth, necessary and I would say that it is essential. On the other hand, highlight some aspects that seem to be positive of what this project of assumptions contemplates. 2020, also the result of the pact between the municipalities and the Government of Catalonia, allowed the Generalitat's participation in the financing from zero to three to be recovered. The presuppositions of 2022 will allow for the gratuity of the P2, it will be allowed that, for the course 2022-2023, the pairs and the seas will not have to pay the taxes of their children, 90_million euros. The pressure on employment policies is increased by 250_millions, at a particularly delicate time, in the midst of a pandemic. Four million to implement the second phase of the universal basic income pilot plan, an important step forward, which will make Catalonia a referent country in the field. Investment in Catalan culture and language is increasing with €85 million. The shoal against the severe poor. It doubles the premise in policies of equality and feminism and also doubles the resources destined for the eradication of male violence. It creates the public enterprise, the public energy that has to be used to press the energy costs down and that has to be used to start defusing the energy oligopolises of the IBEX 35. You can't wait to assume independence, we can start working on it from now on. One hundred and fifty million to implement the climate and natural heritage, 150 million that come, as you know, from the agreement that in its moment was established with some parliamentary groups of this chamber around the climate change law. A national industrial pact that will allocate EUR 126_million for the reindustrialisation of our country, which very expressly wants to implement a governance that is listened to by all socio-economic sectors and that allows, from the cross-cutting agreements, to implement an ambitious policy and that makes industry an engine of our country's economy. Mrs. Romero spoke of Mahle's displacement. The truth is that making a point of demagogic on aspects so delicate it does harm and more in a plethora of assumptions, where the rigour should prevail in everything we say in this room. In any case, they certainly have the opportunity to make a great contribution as a parliamentary group of the PSOE, which is to repeal the tax reform; a reform that we regain the capacity to intervene as a labor authority to intervene in a more determined way in the processes of closure of industries, in the processes of displacement. On the other hand, the department destined, the Department of Enterprise and Work, 10_million euros to strengthen the tourism promotion, because we are aware of it. As a consequence of the economic crisis situation and as a result of some decisions we took in this parliamentary chamber to extend and suspend some aspects of the tax on tourist states, the recaptancy fell to 29_million euros. At the end of the recapitulation in 29_million euros, obviously, the tourist promotion that is finance of these resources is touched. And for this reason, the government makes an additional effort of 10_million euros. And that, while the State allocates to Catalonia only the deu_per_cent of the Next Generation funds destined for tourism, when Catalonia represents the twenty-i-u_per_cent of the gross domestic product of the tourism of the conjunction of the State. And finally, with the limited margin of management that we leave the State, which we leave the Government of the State, the Generality is working to maximize the absorption of European foundations, establishing effective and effective governance. It's a repte collectiu, it's a repte not only from the government, but also from the conjunction of public administrations. And, in this sense, congratulate them on the work being done by the Department of Economics and History. Finally, good politics is the one that seeks solutions, it is the one that poses the interests of the people over the political interests. And today, President Aragones, has done good politics. It has sought solutions for families who bring their children and their daughters to children's homes, for young people who need more competitive vocational training, for families who have difficulty accessing housing, for those who need more ambitious employment policies to be able to return to the labour market, to make Catalonia a country more compromised in the fight against climate change and more compromised in equality policies. President Junqueras just said that Esquerra Republicana is the most trusted partner in Catalonia. I think today, President Aragones, has been the most reliable partner in this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.32.0	He then asked whether any of the major parliamentary groups wanted to make use of their reply. [[Pause.]] Yes, the Socialist Party. Some other group would want to, of those who present the message... would like to use the word? [[Pause.]] So Congresswoman Alicia Romero has five minutes to reply. And there will be five minutes of counter-reply by the groups that support the government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.33.0	Thank you, President. The truth is my group didn't want to intervene, but we couldn't be there. Look, we wanted to say..., three things we want to say: a finding, a question and an affirmation. The finding. After listening to the interventions of the groups that support the Government, it confirms what I gave to my initial intervention: the majority of the investiture is broken, the Government is broken. One question. Clearly, there is a new scener in Catalonia: where are we going? Where are we going? What future awaits this country? It's a question someone would have to answer. And a statement. While you're ruminant, if you think about it, if you talk about it, I don't know how many coordination meetings they haven't served and I don't know how many more things they must have decided or decided, honestly, the best service we can do to the country is to offer an alternative, an alternative to the market, to uncertainty, to improvisation and to instability. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.34.0	Mr. Canadell gives up making the turn of the line. Mr. Salvador? [[Pause.]] Also. Okay. So finally, to position himself, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.35.0	Good late – it's been late, isn't it? Well, before anything else, let me make a comment to Mr. Canadell. I'm saying because... I don't know if you're from Barcelona or not, but at the Sant Antoni Market, it's true, it's changing chromes. But at the Sant Antoni Market it's better not to go to change chromes, it's better to go to buy books and read them. [[Some applause.]] There is one of the Joan Margarit..., I will not read you the complete poetry, you read it to yourself, but the title I think is quite clear, the poetry clarifies it to you: « You made your time late. I think it's an interesting book, an interesting poem to read about Joan Margarit, a great Catalan poet we consider very much – read it, it will please you. [[Someone's got a pinch of hands.]] Well, said that, it's a matter of us now positioning ourselves in relation to the draft assumptions presented for the government. We said at the time that this project of assumption did not please us, we said that we understood that he had little ambition and little compromise. But, in principle, we also said from the first moment that our intention was to try to work together to try to find mechanisms to improve it, to give it the mission and compromise that we thought we had to have from our point of view. We placed a whole item last week, because we saw that we had not just moved forward and that we had not just entered into a dynamic that allowed us to see that we could use the negotiation work to improve, so to speak, the content of the submitted draft. Finally, however, we also did, like everyone else, an exercise of responsibility and we took off. And we walked around knowing what it's like to walk around in a situation like this. Because we understand that the assumption is the most important political act that this Parliament does, because the assumption determines, establishes who are the markers in which government action can be developed during the corresponding fiscal year. It is the Parliament, through the approval and the debate of the press, that frames the orientations of the government's policy. And we want to take an active part in this exercise to establish the strategic orientations to be held by our country's presupposition. And we want to do this, because if we understand that it is the most important political action of this Parliament, it is not a political action that is done in the void, it is with a concrete reality, with a certain reality, that it is framed, badly, by the effects of the pandemic on people, by the effects of the pandemic on economic activity and by the planetary reptes that our country also sees – the climate change, among others, to not talk about more things. And it is in this framework that we want to act, because we want to combat inequalities, because we want to address the exhaustion of our industrial model, because we also want to address the climate challenge with strategic changes in our country, because we detect that there are territorial imbalances, decompensated territories, because we have shown that the biax, the bract of gender exist in our country still needed more direct policies in this sense. That's why we wanted to roll. We knew that it's not easy, we know that it's not easy, because we know that the outcome of a negotiation is always complex; because also, as Joan Margarit says in a poem – this one does read it to you –..., because it says... Because I understand, too – like Joan Margarit – that this negotiation is complicated. And we all know that. Because negotiating and reaching an agreement – or a pre-agreement at these times – is nothing more than something like digging between the stones, the earthlings/ and the pitfalls that you will never pull. / But this is the price of what is deep – « digging between the stones, the earthy/ and the pitfalls that you will never pull. / But this is the price of what is deep. We've come to a precord – that's right. Does this preagreement mean that these are the best possible assumptions? Certainly not; they are never the best possible assumptions, they will never be the best possible assumptions by definition. But, possibly, in this project of assumptions we have been able to introduce elements that we believe will improve qualitatively the problems we want to address, the problems of the people, which is what we have at the centre of our political action. When we entered the negotiations, we set up a whole set of objectives, because we did not want to talk about abstract issues, we wanted to talk about concrete, material issues that we had to deal with with people's lives, with the economic activity of the country, with the climate, with territorial imbalances; we wanted to deal with these things, and that is why we did so with concrete proposals, we did not deal with other issues. That we may have many differences? Sure. But we wanted to use the assumptions to change things, to transform things that we don't like. Totes? No, no, What are the possibles? Yeah. And in this we have located ourselves and in this we are advancing. We're holding a precord. And it's true, there are forty-five, forty-six proposals we've put on the table, twenty-four we've already agreed. Do we have any more left? Yeah. Are we still working? Yeah. We want to work with more people too; as more people get to work, sure that on the 23rd of December we will have some assumptions still better built, more plural and more groundwork, giving answers to people's problems. We have placed ourselves in two objectives and, from these great objectives, we have come up with questions, knowing the political limitations of the debate, because we know where we are and we know the Parliament..., the arithmetics of this Parliament. That's why we wanted to raise the issue of taxation. We knew the few margins of something that interests us. We believe that there is margin in yields..., in IRPF ; we know that there is margin in estates and assets, but we know the political limits to address this issue. But we also know that it is possible to use assumptions to change habits and attitudes. That's why we're talking about not just a fair tax, but a green and healthy tax. That's why we placed the development of taxes related to the climate change law. That is why we have also put in place a better tax on empty dwellings, because there is no great concern that, since they are not legal persons, they are exempt from paying; and, well, we have also granted that physical persons have the same treatment as legal persons if they are legal persons. And we want to address the issue, too, of a healthy tax, a tax that improves the lives of people from the point of view of public salvation, and it's the tax on ultra-processed foods, because it's a tax that will end up helping infants to a better health, but at the same time it's a tax that we want the finalist, because we want this tax to improve also the living and working conditions of the pages, of agricultural activity, of farmers, of the camp, in short, that they also need. We can do so and we can do a tax that improves the lives of people without economic burden, as we also help to improve the life, in this case, of the small page of our country, which was well needed. And here we have advanced things and, therefore, seems good to us. The second objective refers to strengthening the public health of people, from proximity, foresight and quality. Agreed that we had many proposals in this sense, agreed that we have not yet corrected the whole route that separates us, but we are convinced that we can and must pass it from here to 23 December. Because we need to go further in mental health and we need to go further in oral health, with a public dentist; we may need to go further with more things, but these are two elements that you are serving today that people ask for. One, sadly, direct effects of the pandemic: mental salvation; we know that at these times it is at the forefront of all debates. The public dentist is also a social demand for need and need to develop it, because we have a law on it. We're going to have to move on here too in these own months. We have also advanced, in agreement with this, in relation to the questions of salvation, in trying to improve the guarantee of universal access to the right to abhorrence. And here we have also made a possible proposal in the framework of what we have. The third objective refers to a model of cures and to the fight against bretsxes of genere. And here we have agreed also that it is possible to address, in the presuppositionary exercise that is now over– if we approve the assumptions–, in creating, through a public operator, a public institution, some mechanism– we have to just define which – that allows the work of many women of the world to flourish, of many women of the cure, that unfortunately for the current system are in a situation of illegality, in a situation of submerged economy. We are looking for mechanisms that, from the public point of view, can bring this out, to dignify their working conditions, but also to bring out the submerged economy, which will also directly revert to a better economics of the country. We also saw the goal of eradicating poverty and fighting inequality. And here, for the time being, we agree that the management of the guaranteed income of citizenship and of the vital minimum income..., that we want it to be transferred to Catalonia its management; that the unified management of this must allow us to complement the guaranteed income of citizenship and improve it, and it must also allow us to unlock the index of sufficiency returns of Catalonia. It is true that we still have, in this distance, elements to keep working, that they are positive and that I think we can work them, but we have advanced and we have achieved some concrete agreement. We also had an objective with regard to an innovative economy serving people. And here we have realized increments, in relation to the initially foreseen assumption, the pact for the industry that we believe to be positive. We have also brought out and visualize elements that, in a direct way, must go to this industrial model change, a suitable industrial model in time. And we have also placed something that is very important for more than seventy-one thousand men and women workers who could access free of charge, because they would eliminate taxes, accreditations and certifications of professionalism. Those people who wear years working in a profession, but who don't have the title and who would have to pay if they wanted the title they certified them to what they already know how to do. And they can do it for free, we can come out. And this is good for people, but also for the proper functioning of the labour market and for businesses, which will have recognizable and recognizable qualifications. And we also had proposals for a feminist country that we need to keep talking about, because there are elements that still keep us here; of course it is for the costs, but we can assume them if we agree. Because it's not fair, it's not ethically just today that single-maritime families don't have the same treatment, for example, as they have the names. It must be possible to dissociate this path, because in terms of ethics and justice it is obvious that the single-maritime families have a specific overcost; that they must also have a presuppositional attention, just as they do, in this case, the number of families. We also had a gap in the fight against climate change, green mobility and energy democratisation. And here we have advanced far enough. Everything? No, no, We still have a way to go, but we have made enough progress in addressing a strategy of change in the model of mobility, this strategy of the light train, and with the compromise of pulling forward the one of the Camp of Tarragona, but also to put in the way of the one of the Bages and the one of the Costa Brava. We also have proposals that we should continue to work on, because we believe that it is a model that we need to study, and we need to study a couple of more possibilities, at the Pirinium level, at the level of the Hebrew Delta, because they are elements that help to vertebrate the territory, give more territorial equity, too, at the same time, say, that they promote a model of sustainable mobility of what we so much need. And we address the issue of the pacification of National II, and we continue to work on other aspects, such as the theme of Lleida's rollies or the theme of the Avant à Tortosa or the theme of the R8 in Vilafranca. You're afraid they'll have to stay on board. We had another point in relation to an inclusive culture and fitness, to promote cultural progress and personal development, you're very related to the field of education; and here we've also advanced. There are a couple of questions that we think are important not only because they improve the working conditions of some concrete people, of some concrete professionals, who have to replace those who enjoy the right to a reduced working day, but that it can only be to replace the right to a third day's reduction by going to school with a number of hours, very few, which prevents them from managing their own lives. We're making a living out of these people. If you repeat in a_third, the one that goes to the center will be for half a day. This is not that I benefit people's lives, that yes, it is that I greatly benefit from the management of the education centre, and therefore much better the quality of the learning of that education centre in relation to the children; it is a good measure. As it is also possible that the replacements or the names of people who have sick cuts can be made four days a week in three accounts. We believe that it can be a management effort, and we are glad that it has been assumed, but that it ends up benefiting the management of the centre, obviously also the management of the management teams, of the people, etc. Are there more things? Yes, there are more things, and we will continue to talk to them, but these have already allowed us to say that we are on the road, so to speak, for the sake of negotiation. We have, and we have also placed things in relation to a plural democratic, municipalist governance. And here are some things, already, that we have concreted; that we will continue to talk about, but one we have already concreted. For example, the internationalization of 112, as on the subject of salvation, which I have not said before, the internalization of 061; that they are also, say, important elements, which, moreover, come from debates here in the proper Parliament, and, therefore, if they are incorporated in the presupposition, we believe that it is important. As we have also introduced in this chapter a reference to cameras for foam launchers using the Moves. We believe that it is an element of modernization and democratisation, too, of our country's security model. And lastly, we had an objective in relation to territorial sustainability and equity, which some elements we have advanced, which we must continue to advance, in the sense of realising the development mark of a law of green barrels. We believe, therefore, that we have arrived at principles of pre-agreement that we understand to be positive, that help a greater visualization of the objectives and of a useful assumption for people and for the economic activity or the economic transformation of the country, and, therefore, we have withdrawn the thought to the totality and consider that we must continue to work to improve all this. And I don't want to end up without thanking Councillor Giró and Councillor Vilagrà, Mr. Jordi Cabrafiga, Mr. Núria Cuenca and Mr. Marc Ramentol, who have been the counterpart we have had at the negotiating table, and who thanks them we have been able to advance in the negotiation. Therefore, many thanks to the two advisers and to the three senior officials of the corresponding departments who have helped us, and, obviously, to the President, [[applause]] That's who's been running this thing. All the more, thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.36.0	The debate is over, and I am sure that, in accordance with Rule 132, all the papers submitted together must be put to the vote. If the Ple agrees to the return of the bill, this is to be rejected; otherwise, they have to fix the input forecast and the maximum overall expenditure resulting from the submitted project, and the distribution of these by sections. Having called for the vote, we are ready to vote. The vote begins. The papers to the totality of the draft law of assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for the year 2022 have been rejected with 62 votes in favour, 65 votes against and 8 abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] We suspend the session for two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.37.0	Let's resume the session. [[Draft law on fiscal, financial, administrative and public sector measures by 2022 (total issues)]] [[200-00004/13]] And we do so with the third item on the agenda, the debate on the draft bill on fiscal, financial, administrative and public sector measures by 2022. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules, the initiative is presented by the Councillor of Economy and History, Mr. Jaume Giró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.38.0	Thank you, President. Many honourable President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, I now have the task of defending the bill of fiscal, financial, administrative and public sector measures that accompany the law of assumptions, which we have been talking about for a while now, which we all know as the law of accompanying the assumptions. It is a law that has one hundred and forty pages; but that no one is spreading, that I will be there twenty or twenty-five minutes as much. But before anything else, allow me to thank the groups that have just voted against the drafts to the totality of the presupposition law and also the Members who have abstained and who have made it possible for the presupposition law to continue its process. I am pleased, if not, that this Parliament has just allowed its proceedings to continue for a while now. And it is in this sense of transit that I did not refer to in my first intervention, that I wanted to explain to Mrs. Alicia Romero, that it is not at this moment, that I referred to in the transit in this sense, as if by procedure or procedure, not because the law was a transit; years on the contrary: the law of assumptions is the law that determines the action of government for a year, and that is why the law of assumptions is likely to be the most important law that is required in this room throughout the year. The accompanying law is another thing. Just as the law of assumptions is presented as a compact project and with an unquestionable political component, what we are discussing now is a set of heterogeneous measures, many of them, the vast majority of them of technical character. And here, ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you that the city would surely be very strange to hear what it felt like to have a goal in totality. I now propose to make a rest of some of these measures, of which perhaps the most outstanding may be. These measures, as I said, have an eminently technical character, improve our tax and administrative procedures and are designed to improve the lives of citizens. The draft law on fiscal, financial, administrative and public sector measures for fiscal year 22, which the Government approved on 11 November and which the same day was presented here to Parliament, sets back a set of taxation measures related to taxes and taxes paid by Catalans, but also with other actions affecting the functioning of the Administration and the judicial system of public finances. I'll start by talking to you about tax measures. The tax measures we propose for fiscal year 22 have an eminently technical character. The first one I want to refer to is the inheritance tax. Under normal conditions, the time limit for this tax is one year. Exceptionally, and because the moment we are living is, as you know, equally exceptional, we propose you to extend this term to two years. And that is as much in the case of successions that arise from the entry into force of the law, as in the case of those heretics who have already filed an application for an adjournment for a year of the payment of the tribute, or those who, having submitted it, have already had this adjournment granted. Another measure that I understand deserves to be highlighted is the tax on installations that affect the environment. What we want to do is that twenty per cent of the tickets that are recaptained for the production of nuclear energy are destined for a new source. At the moment, all the resources in this fund will be used to finance activities of socio-economic development and energy transition in the municipalities that are found in the area of influence of nuclear power plants. Look, we don't want to go back to what happened with the rise of the highway tolls, which has caused a sudden and significant fall in the entrances that many municipalities get from concessionary companies. Thus, from the entry into force of the law, the twenty-percent of the revenues collected for the electric energy transport activity will be integrated into this climate. As you know, this fund has to be used, among other things, to boost the promotion of renewable energies, to decentralize electricity distribution networks and to expect their self-consumption, to promote energy-efficient habitats and sustainable mobility, and, ultimately, to alleviate water and optimize its consumption. Precisely, the third measure I want to talk to you about has to be seen with the water canon. Here, what we are trying to do is reduce the administrative burden to economically vulnerable people who are right at the social rate. It cannot be that people who can benefit from help who have a right to travel through a path of bureaucratic obstacles to get it. Because often, not always, these vulnerable people, moreover, do not have the resources to go to a management or have the time to supplement a beech processing. From the year you see, with these approved assumptions, they will be the social services and not the beneficiaries in charge of submitting the report on behalf of these people so that they can attach themselves to the social rate of this basic sub-administration. In terms of economic cost, this measure has an insignificant impact on the assumptions of the Generality, but, in change, the social cost of not implementing is enormous. Measures like this – and I am telling you this as I feel it – give all meaning not only to the executive action of the Government, but also to the legislative action of this Parliament. And yet in the fiscal sphere I want to mention a measure that could be alleviated... – forgive me –, which may seem minor, but as the previous one is not. I'm talking about a new chapter we're adding to the tax code. By this measure, public sector entities that collect taxes will have to provide information and homogenous data to bodies that design and evaluate tax policies. What do I mean by that? I want to tell you something very simple: today data is the first subject with which information is structured and with which decisions are made. We cannot allow the Administration to continue working with a management model based on the consignment; the consignment, just as it is from the 19th century. We need to start replacing data bank expedients, and we need to start analyzing, evaluating and designing our political action and also legislation with objective data and homogeneity. We cannot allow the Administration to be stuck in procedures that businesses and citizens have abandoned for some time. In short, we cannot afford, ladies and gentlemen, to allow the public sector to move away from fossilising. And a measure as simple as the one I just exposed went in the line of avoiding this danger. So far the fiscal measures, which I wanted to summarize and highlight. I will now talk to you about some of the financial, administrative and public sector measures that I also think are exemplary for what it does to the content of the accompanying law. The first one I want to mention has to see with transparency. It is about the obligation that the Department of Economics will have, if the law pulls forward, to draw up three additional presuppositional documents. They see what I'm asking them: before I told them that the Economics Department was the only one that would reduce their assumptions to 22 and now I'm asking them to give us more work in the Economics Department. The case is that these three documents will improve the information to the citizenry, and also to the public authorities and economic officials, on the real situation of the finances of the Generality. In this way, the citizens can make a more accurate idea of how the government manages and assigns assumptions, and the authorities and economic leaders can make the most informed decisions for what it does to everything that affects public finances. The first of these additional documents is a presuppositional guidance report that will account for the execution status and the current presupposition liquidation forecast. It will also provide information on the macroeconomic, social and fiscal framework in which the following year's accounts are to be deployed. The second document will be a presuppositional report provided for each time there are elections. As a minimum, fourteen days before each electoral contest, the Department of Economics and History will publish a document containing the macroeconomic perspectives, in this case, of Catalonia. In addition, he will also look at fiscal and presuppositional scenes, the state of spending commitments for future exercises, to know all the parties that have multi-annual commitments, and also the debt and debt burden scenarios, for a four-year horizon. And the third document will be a long-term presuppositional outlook report. Every five years we want to publish a outlook report for a minimum of fifteen years, with input and expenditure forecasts and an analysis of the impact of the demographic and economic changes that are produced vagina and that we can predict. Often, as you know, the policies that your temporal horitzo does not get used to going further than the end of the legislature are accused. I don't think this is the case with this government, but if it is, it won't be for lack of information. We do not want it to be said that those of us who are in government and the representatives of the citizens do not have the analytical and forward-looking tools that allow us to work long term. In addition to these three documents, I would like to highlight a measure that would turn into law something that this government has already begun to term in the law of assumptions that we are dealing with today. The aim is to incorporate, in a cross-cutting way, the gender perspective into public accounts. Another measure with which I believe that all of us who are here today could agree, has to be seen with the staff interested in the Generality. We propose to remove the difference between the career staff and the staff involved in the regulations, as we do at these times. We believe that it is justiciable that, like career workers, stakeholders can also be declared in special service situations and that they can enjoy, in this way, the claims to make studies related to the place of work or the corresponding claims to appropriate subjects. And yet, a penultimate example of a common sense measure with which we want to stop cheating on the solitaire. You know that the current law establishes that the assumptions are to be presented to Parliament every year before October 10th. I was reminded of the first day we took possession of it. And you also need to know that this requirement has not been fulfilled; it has never been fulfilled – never in life. What we want is that reality and legislation vagnates. It is not to fix this date or that other date, but to demand that the executor present his assumptions with sufficient time to ensure that they can enter into force for the generation, as they will this year. So, what we're proposing is that the presupposition bill be set up before Parliament long enough to be able to implement it from the first day of the next year, without fixing, however, a certain date, because that depends on many things. Look, I don't want to go any further in the rest of the measures that I told you about. In total, they amend sixty-four legal provisions, between statutory decrees, legislative decrees, laws and decrees. As I already know they've all been read, you should know that the examples I've wanted to highlight are representative and meaningful of what's more important in this accompanying law. There are other important measures. I am sure that there are Members and Members who must think that the extension of the Serra Húnter Plan, which has given such good results to public universities, is an irrevocable initiative. And there's no doubt that it is. And there will be others that may seem more important to them than the government to give extraordinary help to families who have been harmed by the death of a woman for a situation of male violence, so that they can cope with the costs of burial or transporting and repatriating the victim's body to their country of origin. Some of you sure believe that the most important measure is that the Health Department is developing a full route to internalize the 061 service, while assessing the impact that the direct assumption of this service will have, and establishing a legal formula and a concrete timetable that makes this initiative possible. But, look, this is all important. Sixty-four are important. It is not now a matter of making a balance of the measures according to their importance. What it's all about is country politics and in chapel politics. And, ladies and gentlemen, you will already tell me whether any of the measures I have listed to you, which are only twelve of the sixty-four projects, seem acceptable to you. Do they honestly believe that all this bill of law deserves to be returned to the government? Do they really think that with this whole thing they're honoring the mandate of their constituents? Ladies and gentlemen, you know that in this Parliament what we all represent is the citizen of Catalonia and we serve the best we all know his interests. If they're here, if we're here, in this Parliament, and if they're running for election and they're being chosen, it's because they made their commitment to serve, while they're inside this chamber, the citizens of the country. You, Members and Members, and we, Government, owe us only to whom he chose us for the long term this work that we are doing. And that's why I finish my speech with one last question: do you really think, Members and Members, that the people of Catalonia are better served by preventing us from implementing these sixty-four measures? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.39.0	The parliamentary groups that have submitted papers to the totality, from major to minor, will continue to intervene. Therefore, he has the word, for the defense of the threat to the totality presented, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mr Jordi Riba.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.40.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, Councillors of Economy... He told us to turn to his intervention on the papers to the totality of the press and now a few moments ago if we considered that we served the people better with the object to the totality. He would tell us if there was anything, if it didn't seem like there was something that could be saved. And, in any case, what I'm saying is that there are questions in this law of measures that seem insurmountable to us; some, for a question of form, and others, form and substance. The first point, and most pertinent to our understanding, refers to the use of the law of measures such as the omnibus law to modify all kinds of standards and legislation – up to sixty-four of us have just been told by the Lord Counselor. The law of measures should be restricted to regulating aspects that have a direct relation to regulatory changes arising from the law of assumptions. And on the other hand, you are using it again to modify all the legislation that remains to be seen with the presuppositional sphere and that should be dealt with in detail in other standards, allowing the parliamentary debate with guarantees and transparency. One thing is the economy or the legislative efficiency, making changes, let's say, minor. And another good difference is, short and short, to hold Parliament to its capacity, its responsibility and competence to approach, by means of its corresponding procedures, questions of political substance that cannot or should not be addressed by the back door. Even though you bother them with the expression, it's a question of democratic quality. In colloquial language, pasting these changes of amagatotis takes into account the democratic quality of the institutions. Some of these questions we have seen as appearing in the debate at the length of these weeks of negotiations – frustrated, of course – as the CUP marked. Some of them understand that they have been incorporated into the law of measures with this objective. The lost decade to which we have sometimes referred and which so much bothers some, which has as one of its maximum exponents – which today has come out on repeated occasions – send presidents to the paper of history, enters a situation of prorogation; indefinite prorogation, it seems, with the split of the majority of the investiture both for what it does to the law of assumptions as for what it does to the law of measures. And it is that the common denominator of this lost decade is the CUP's ability to influence decisions that are relevant, not due to proper merit, but because you have stuck them with this ability to do so. It is not a question of asking, as before, the CUP that I stop sending things to the paper mill and that I recycle, but to plant if they want to follow for longer subtly Catalonia to this constant health. In any case, and referring to..., you did not refer to twelve, I will refer to six concrete questions of the law of measures that we consider, as I said, insurmountable both by form, in some cases, and by form and in the background, in the others, as I said. First question, refers to collective bargaining. Sections 40.1 and 40.3 amend the Civil Service Act. In this article 40, the willingness to reduce the temporality rate to public office is valued in different ways. We value positively this question to which you refer. Notwithstanding this, we cannot share the factual argument to reduce the cost of processing a rule with a specific legal rank, because we believe that it should be object of consultation and negotiation with the representatives of the public service workers. For what it does in Article 42, Law 24 is amended, the law of common administered procedure, for which it refers to questions such as the silence administered, affecting the rights of workers. Expand the assumptions to make the administered silence negative. We consider that it directly affects working conditions and that it is not based on a prior negotiation with the representatives of public workers and workers and that this measure of rejection generates defencelessness on the part of public employees and employees. We do not believe this only ourselves, the report of the Labour, Economic and Social Council is pronounced in the same direction as I have just referred to in relation to the right to collective bargaining. In both cases there are two essential questions. For a band, erasing is very good, but justifying this for a cost issue of processing a rule is directly absurd. It represents, above all, a little bit of the concept of collective bargaining. As Enric IV of France said at the end of the 16th century, "Paris is well worth a Mass, abjuring him of his faith to become king of France. I don't know if some assumptions here and some assumptions there are also worth abjuring from conviction in collective bargaining. [[Some applause.]] Secondly, promotion of equality in relation to women. Articles 43, 46.7 and 47.4 of the Act introduce measures to promote equal access of women to the bodies of Bombers, Mossos and Rural Agents, respectively. Notwithstanding this, we consider it manifestly insufficient that the reservation in the framework of the calls for access and promotion internal to the bodies of Bombers, Mossos and Rural Agents of the Generalitat remains authoritative and non-binding. In fact, in this sense, our group, through Mr Swordler's deputy, we have put forward a bill to regulate it. It does not seem to us to be a waste that we leave this question essential to the discretionary criteria of the Government. What we say: it does not touch, nor the place nor the way to modify these norms. Third element, makes reference to the Catalan Institute of Finance. They plant a profound change in the field in which it is proposed that the ICF should have a banking market file. The possibility of capturing private deposits is an essential change in the nature of the Catalan Institute of Finance. In this sense, it seems to us, as I have said, a profound reform, of calm, that cannot pass through the door of the backsliding of amagatotis in a law of measures. It seems to us that it deserves a profound, technical, political and legal debate of which is the suitability of this measure and which are the real possibilities. The ICO does not have a market file for these characteristics. It seems interesting to us the reflection, but, I say again, it does not seem to us that it is the place, the moment or the way, above all, to do it. Especially for a question. If you carry out the collection of private passes, will you support the Catalan Institute of Finance the rating qualifications of the Spanish Bank and the European Central Bank? Otherwise, what will we do? What responsibilities will the Government of Catalonia assume for these decisions? It seems to us that the possible repercussions of this measure are not likely to be addressed in this way, like the one that passes things through the law of measurement. Fourth question, reform of the Administration. I refer to the section on the continuous supervision of public sector entities. Says the preamble to the rule that it aims to "give the Government a mandate to adopt a new plan for the reorganization and simplification of the public institutional sector of the Administration of the Generality, with the aim of optimizing public resources, efficiency and organizational efficiency and quality in the performance and production of goods and services and activities. In concrete terms, Article 54 of the Law of Measures states that, in the term of divout_mesos, the Government must draw up a plan for simplification and reorganisation of the public sector. We can and we can agree with the object that you're planting. We have said this on repeated occasions: the reform of the Administration is an imperative need. Now, the Administration of the Generality has grown excessively and disorderly, not for what it does to greatness – which I made clear: not for what it does to greatness – but for what it does to its dependent entities, which have multiplied exponentially over the last thirty years. Overtake at these times, with crease, the name of two-hundred entities. Now, sticking this measure into the law of measures makes us ratify the idea that they don't believe in it or that they don't believe in it. And I'm telling you why. While this measure forms part of its 2021 government plan, they would therefore compliment its objective, it appears or is very similar to the objective that appeared in the 2017 government plan. I, of course, didn't do anything. Putting it to the bill of measures clearly indicates the lack of conviction in the objective and, what is worse, it brings back to Parliament the political debate and the social dialogue that would be necessary to bring this reform to an end. For another group, the reduction of the institutional public sector that it sets up, depending on the impact memory, according to the report of the Council of Economic and Social Work, can reach a twenty-i-five percent of the measure of the institutional public sector. Will this reduction be compatible with the needs that have arisen with the pandemic that the public sector needs to develop? Since our group, as I said, we want to improve efficiency, but we do not aim at reducing the public sector. And this modification of the measurement law does not clarify the objectives nor is it brought to an end where and how we think it should be done because conviction leads to the success of the same, which is absolutely, as I said, indispensable and indispensable. Five element, refers to regulation in urban issues. In the first place, Article 75.15 of the Law on Measures refers – and I read it literally – to the fact that ‘private individuals or legal persons may submit proposals for the formulation of urban management plans. For the first time in our urban legislation, actors, private agents will be able to formulate, will be able to present proposals for the elaboration of urban management plans. Unpublished. It seems to us, as I said, that this is colitis in the law of measures, without a profound debate, as deep as the depth of the measure that you propose in this law. Second question. Article 76.2, amends Law 31/2010 of urban management plans of the metropolitan area of Barcelona. Add an apartment, 1a, to article 37. In this context, it is argued that the urban planning bodies of the Administration of the Government of Catalonia are competent to formulate and approve the urban management plans affecting the metropolitan area referred to in Articles 56 and concordants of the Law of Urbanism. Minim respects the competence for the local administration, for the administration of the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona in concrete. Do they really believe that urban skills can be drawn from this way into the municipal area, the metropolitan area, through a law of measures? Do they really think this is the way? Last question, the sisena, refers to the second additional arrangement, referring to the incinerators. A few weeks ago, the advisor responsible for the matter, Councilwoman Jordan, gave us the first chance of the government's willingness to complete a plan to shut down and dismantle existing incinerators. We find this measure, now, to the additional provision second and says that the Government must adopt, within two years of the approval of this rule, of this law, of the law of measures, a plan of containment and dismantling of existing incinerators. We are back in the same: a question of this magnitude, of this complexity, without alternative solution. What are we going to do with the residue? Will we build mouthpieces, deposits of residues at ease to fill the functions that the incinerators are doing? Planting the law of measures without the complexity of the debate it requires is absolutely reckless and irresponsible. [[Greetings.]] A fellow Member, precisely from Tarragona, the Lord Winemaker, one of the areas in which there is an incinerator, wrote an article a few days ago in which he said: "Southern Denmark, to which you are often referring. "We have twenty-five drinkers at these times in Catalonia, controlled deposits of residues and four incinerators. Denmark has at these times four waste disposals and twenty-six incinerators. Only to put the question in relation or situation. And, finally, the measure up to the absurdity that at these times there is a subsidy from the Government of Catalonia of 40_millions for the expansion and improvement of the Tarragona incinerator, while you approve and process a modification [[some applause]] through the law of measures that involves a freezing, a moratorium and a dismantling of the incinerators. Absolutely unheard of and fruit... and evidence of the disgovernment you're in. So, Counselor, with all the pain we tell him it's not that he can't save anything, but there are things that are frankly insurmountable in this rule. For this reason, we have presented this message to the totality and for this reason we have kept it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.41.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mr Andrés Bello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.42.0	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, or good evening, because we are already a little late. I'm gonna try not to run out of time so I don't bore you more than I owe you. We are dealing with a bill, commonly known as the Budget Accompanying Act, and, as your own name points out, it is a necessary complement to the Budgeting Act, so you must consider yourself as a unit. I think this answers the question you asked: "Why are you presenting the amendment as a whole? Well, because we presented it in the budget. I think that, too, well, that, we have to take the same view in both of them and act consistently. And we have also tabled this amendment both because of what the law says and because of what the law does not say – this is also another response to what you have put to us. And as a third, let us say, question, therefore, as we are an opposition group, we can do what we consider appropriate, and we have considered it appropriate to present an amendment to the whole; we are in our right. Well, starting with the content of this bill, let's comment on some of the issues we disagree with, huh? In the time we have. As usual in the accompanying laws – and he has also commented, practically in the same line, the Member who preceded me in the use of the word – takes the opportunity to amend numerous laws. In this case, the councillor has informed us that he has amended sixty_y_four – sixty_y_four laws, eh? ; not bad –, most of which have no relationship, as has been well explained in some of the cases, with the draft budget that is supposed to complement – difficult complement: they have no relationship –; difficult to fit. A few days ago, the Conseil de Treball, Economique i Social de Catalunya issued an opinion in which it said – I read –: "In the future, this rule must restrict itself to dealing with matters directly related to regulatory changes arising from the budget law. The Council considers that legislative amendments on matters not directly related to the budgetary area should be included in other legal rules, which would allow for a specific parliamentary debate and would provide greater guarantees and transparency in the procedure. We agree. We agree with this opinion. And, in the same line as other speeches we have made here, we are, once again, faced with a case of contempt by the Government of the Generalitat for the legislative work that this Parliament must carry out. And, in addition, as a curiosity, it surprises the regulatory instability of this government, so it takes advantage of these – how many? –..., sixty_and four laws, eh? , you use to modify six of the year 2020– i.e., practically yesterday – and even one of this same year; what confidence you have in your own rules that you are constantly changing. Okay. What do you get out of this? Well, go a little further into the legal uncertainty that aggravates the decadence situation that you are leading to Catalonia. In view of the possibility of creating new taxes... I am making a small parenthesis here, because the Councillor to create new taxes has called it 'technical amendments'. Let's ask those who have to pay these taxes what they think. "Technical changes," he said, "huh? [[Greetings.]] As I said, in view of this possibility of creating new taxes, this law is particularly prolific in explaining the new fees created by this Government. It is to be assumed – it is to be assumed – that this – a few days ago, it is not of this morning – has been done to please its former partners of the CUP, eh? in environmental matters. It turns this accompanying law into a long list of new fees – up to seven we have counted – linked to farms, animal transport and veterinary activities – and some other case, isn't it? – to which environmental rates are applied. This is the fiscal hell the CUP wants and it seems that you have assumed. I don't know if they'll change their minds today, then, because they have new friends, huh? ; also communists, but different, from other shades. Although he has also... Mr. Gallego, who has explained to us before, well, that they have agreed more rates. I mean, this number of seven is short, looks like we'll have more. What was it like? « Technical changes, eh? We have to remember each other. Well, then, as I said, these new rates are just what our farmers and farmers need to finish sinking the: more barriers and more taxes. They also, of course, take advantage of the opportunity to increase the price of a large group of existing fees, as well as various measures to inform citizens – and have already tried to explain to us the sooner – of the fate of part of the money of some of the taxes, as if this reduced our suffering for the tax expoliation to which we are subjected. As is well known, from the VOX Parliamentary Group we believe that the road must be the opposite of this law: we must not create new taxes or raise existing taxes, but strive for a clear policy of tax cuts to favour citizens, businesses, the self-employed and to boost the economy. [[Greetings.]] Of course, following his ideological agenda – and he has boasted of it – he could not miss the gender perspective in public budgets. Is it any use? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, indeed, to generate more administrative expenditure and, probably – lady who has made the comment – to feed some of your chiringuitos. [[Greetings.]] They enable the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia to grant grants. That is, they enable – I repeat – the Anti-Fraud Office in Catalonia to grant subsidies. More? Is this the function of an anti-fraud office? Giving grants? Of course, they spoil everything they touch. In line with wanting to control everything, therefore, administrative burdens on companies increase – an example: the six-monthly supply of data on recreational and random machines – but also to the Administration itself, without apparent usefulness. We believe that easing the absurd administrative burden on companies is an element that would lower their costs and thus improve their competitiveness. On the other hand, this government legislates in the opposite direction. The same could be said of the unnecessary administrative burdens imposed by the Government; they only increase the administrative burden of the administration itself and increasingly consume the economic resources of citizens and businesses. In its article 54, an initiative appears that could be interesting, but that its own regulation makes it inoperative. The aim is to implement a plan to simplify and reorganise the public institutional sector of the Generalitat, which in colloquial language could be referred to as the elimination of chiringuites. Well, it seems good to us, we like it, but – but, but – there is a delay of eighteen months to draw up this plan, a time when, seeing also what..., as the day has passed, we begin to doubt that this government exists, so it has not even given them time to prepare the plan. Since the VOX Parliamentary Group, we believe that many of these entities should be eliminated tomorrow. In this same article, it sets out as an objective of this plan that must be made, and that surely, therefore, will not give them time, the reduction of vowels and positions in the governing bodies of these entities so that, as a general rule – as a general rule – they do not exceed the fifteen members. Then the question is obvious: but are there any chiringuites who have more than fifteen charges? It seems so, because they put it as a non-compulsory, orientative limit. In a paragraph that seems to have been drafted by the CUP, its partners until the end of the week, we are told – I read –: "The Government expresses its willingness, once the contract currently in force ends, to proceed to direct management through the Department of Health at least those services currently provided by the 061 Salut Respon, which are considered to be of health interest to citizens. Good. This is an exception to the public-private partnership policy that makes hundreds of public services currently provided by private companies; that is, according to the contracts that regulate them and under the control and supervision of the public administration. The question is obvious: why is it only going to be managed by the Generalitat with its own staff this service and not the other hundreds or thousands with an existing contract? The answer is also clear: because it is requested by the CUP. And what will happen tomorrow, that the CUP is no longer in its group... has changed partners, hasn't it? Will you continue with this article? Will he change it? Well, Mr. Gallego has given us a clue... well, it looks like they'll continue, so they put some more... I don't know, we'll see what their new communist allies tell you. And, as I said at first, we present the amendment to the whole for what the law says, but also for what the law does not say. And what things do we consider important that this law does not say? Well, well, we give you one idea: since this government has taken advantage of this bill to amend sixty_and_four laws, so, man, for a little bit more..., add some more. I'm going to give you some ideas, which I think we do seem to be interested in Catalans, right? I think it would help us a lot to improve the quality of life. For example, we would have liked the Government of the Generalitat to take advantage of Law 55..., 65 to close the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, and to save Catalans the unusual spending that this hate factory generates every year. Although, well looked at, this closure deserves a law dedicated only to this laudable end. [[Greetings.]] It could also have been used to eliminate or lower taxes, or, as you have called it, 'technical changes, in this case to the contrary, which favour citizens, not to make them pay more. They haven't, of course. As is well known, Catalonia is the region of Spain with the highest number of own taxes. You've missed the opportunity to suppress a few of them, haven't you? But instead of eliminating taxes, then, they continue to create. For example, the tax on carbon dioxide emissions from mechanical traction vehicles, which I have recently started charging and which once again penalize individuals, entrepreneurs and self-employed people. Or they could also have taken advantage of it to reduce the inheritance and donation tax, which again records the wealth generated by the deceased and those who have already paid taxes. The small change that you are proposing and to which the Councillor has referred is aimed only – only – at increasing the payment period to heirs who cannot pay it. Favoritely, you do the taxpayers! For all the above, as far as regulation is concerned and as far as it does not, we are presenting this amendment as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.43.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mrs Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.44.0	Good afternoon, good evening, deputies, deputies, advisors, counselor Giró. Well, the more political view of the assumptions has already exposed it very well, as always, my partner Eulàlia Regant and I, therefore, have to focus on this law, which has a more technical character. The first thing I need to highlight, as other speakers have already pointed out, is a claim made by CTESC, which is a claim made constantly when it is pronounced on these laws, which is that it takes advantage of this law to introduce legislative changes that are not directly related to the law of assumptions. And the CTESC makes a criticism of this fact, and it says that it should only enter into this law those modifications that have a direct relationship with the presuppositional sphere, for which it has also been said that this allows parliamentary debate and major guarantees. I do want to add here, when it comes to these CUP sanctities... it's that, in any case, it comes out in tenim, these CUP sanctities, precisely, isn't it? , as the guarantee for this opacity that carries the processing of this type of law. And so we have, from these healthful things, that they have the ability to bring the political agenda of Parliament's mockery to the assemblies and public debate. What is this accompanying law doing amending, therefore, a transport law and maritime and continental waters? What does it do to change the law of urban planning? What are you doing modifying the needle law? What does it do to amend the tourism decree, both the decree and the tourism law? So we understand that there's no point in making these modifications through this accompanying law. In any case, in view of the negotiations that existed, there are things that fortunately fell out of this accompanying law, and we haven't done it bigger than it is, have we? The one we're voting on today. Yes, you do say, the law's motivating statement, which has a content mainly in measures of natural taxation. And we, therefore, do not share what you say to the motley presentation. The measures provided for in this Act are not primarily of natural taxation, but of other natural nature. How there's only 15 minutes, and that's exactly what this is about, isn't it? , do not use this law to touch so many laws, with fifteen minutes you cannot touch all these sixty and lawlessness. Therefore, I will only refer to those that seem to us most remarkable. There is an article that, in relation to the law of transparency, says that it establishes the obligation to spread the actions that are done, concretely in relation to the finalist taxes, explaining to the citizenry where these tickets are intended, these economic resources. We understand that it is a positive thing, even though you have not clearly clarified what legislative amendment, or this obligation to make that contemplates the law, to which concrete articulation you will put it. Nor do we understand when they say that if possible, they are looking for the corresponding physical communication areas. At some point, then, we'd appreciate it if you could clarify how you'd end up with this. We also want to refer to something else that has already been said, which is related to the continuous supervision of public sector entities. Again, here the CTESC is again referring to that, it is said, concretely to the law, isn't it? , that in the term of new months will proceed to this plan of simplification and reorganization of the public sector; that we also share that in many cases it is done, basically because we attend the commissions of the Union of Accounts, and if something results from these commissions of the Union of Accounts is that, at the date of today, we have a whole series of mixed companies participating, of different categories, that set up a map difficult to understand from the Administration, all that seems very distressed to us that you want to do, more, coming out of a situation of pandemic..., that you have the idea of bringing this to an end in such a limited time. We also want to refer to the article that modifies the law of the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, where it is expected that the metropolitan planning board must respect the determinations of the urban plans formulated and approved by the Generality and affecting the metropolitan area. As has been said, this could be a frontal attack of competitions in the field of urban planning. And, therefore, we understand that from the point of view of the way it could be introduced into this accompanying law, because the autonomy of the municipalities of this country at the time of determining which model of people they want, for us is a basic and indispensable prerogative to configure their future, and therefore cannot be undermined, and less through a law of measures. We also want, as has been said, to make special emphasis on this amendment which they also introduce through the law of measures, which is that, from then on, private physical or legal persons can submit proposals for the formulation of urban master plans to define and order areas of municipal interest for the direct execution of activities of special social and economic relevance or of singular characteristics. We understand that this is a way of opening the door to something that was so far completely unknown – and that we exposed it a few days ago to the Commission of Territories – which is, in short, privatizing the power of planning of the territory and urban planning, a power that until now had always been in the hands of the Administration. We ask ourselves, with this change they introduce: do you now allow private individuals to define special activities of social and economic relevancy? Do you know who will use the possibility to make these modifications? So we believe that – as we put it – they will be the usual lobbyists, the big corporations, because they are the only ones who have the technical and economic means necessary to formulate these proposals. In change, the territorial defense entities, therefore, are already absolutely watered down, with a reactive attitude, aren't they? , by barricade, trying to face all the urban threats that come endorsements for the Administration. Thanks to us, because they say that because a private natural or legal person can push these modifications of the urban management plans will only have to accompany a memorandum justifying the territorial interest of the performance. Now you're talking about territorial interest. So far, the law has been talking about supramunicipal interest. It seems that every time interest felt smaller. And what is territorial interest? To what does this change concretely obey? Moreover, in this proposal that private individuals make, they say that they only have to bring a memo about the interest, about the technical and economic viability of the project. Once again, it's the fetish of technique. What do you mean, there's a technical feasibility to do the project? That one thing can do doesn't mean you have to do it. What do you mean something's economically viable? One thing can be economically viable, but at the average environmental level it has some very expensive consequences. I do not see that you in memory demand that, in the band of technical and economic viability, also require a viability in terms of fighting climate change. Therefore, we cannot disagree more with this legislative change. Mirin, you... well, in your day... I say this for the defense so clearly and vehemently that the Socialist Party has made this local autonomy. I would like to recall that precisely those who touched urban legislation to change what had followed the tradition until now, that it was absolute respect for local autonomy at the time of defining which model of town we wanted, was precisely the tripartite, the Socialist Party, which took the figure of the strategic residential areas from the bar. This was at the end of 2007. And you decided that some of the government's outposts could change urban planning and start deciding which model of territorial planning could be done in the municipality. We celebrate that you are now coming to defend this local autonomy. What happens, that we would also like to have the immediate withdrawal of the AREs on the table, which, in fact, time has given the reason to those who say that there were figures that did not provide any positive, that cost us, I remember, 25_million euros only in installments of lawyers, to go out planning, and that today we could count on the words of one hand that led to the practice. The drama is that we introduced the AREs in 2007 and now we are taking a more deadly step than physical persons and private individuals who are incorporated as legal persons can also present urban planning to the Administration. We can't agree with that. With regard to the change you are making in the law of water, this is to extend the agreed four years, so... we do not just see what this legislative change brings and, therefore, we need the parliamentary process to see what happens after this enlargement, within four years, of the figure of the managed agreements, a figure that we must look closely at and always provide, before an administered agreement, all the possible guarantees of transparency. There is also a very important change, which is the decree of urbanism and the law of urbanism. We understand that these changes that you are putting forward, therefore, would have an appeal in the social and parliamentary debates that you would like to avoid in this way. They are measures that affect a 2002 law that is already obsolete and a 2020 decree, which is its origin in 2015, 2016 and which in its parliamentary process found so much opposition that the government reserved it and then made it appear as a government decree. We don't know how to interpret the papers that you present, beyond your content as a term of office. Could it be that the government considers them sufficient to endure the entire legislature? Or are you about to announce a new tourism law? New law of tourism that we have now seen that you have submitted a preliminary draft of law on October 26 and have already begun the phase of previous consultations. Therefore, if you present us with a pre-project standard tourism law on October 26th, so that we are now changing precisely the tourism law through the accompanying law. Look, and in these modifications... we're only a few minutes away, so I can't get in, but in any case, we want to put this concept of sharing on the table. We understand that we are ahead of a major attack on the company model and an instrument for increasing the offer of the very violent tourist accommodation that we cannot go through, and that we believe that with these modifications what they want to do is to get legal locks for the recognition of the shared flats as full-right tourist accommodation. I skipped things that related to this environment, because, if I don't, I won't have time. I would also like to refer to the additional provision according to the non-acceptance of a request for an extension or new construction of incinerators until approval of a sealing and dismantling plan for existing incinerators. To see, they do not incorporate, therefore, in this moratoria, the mouthpieces or the residue cream in cementers. This moratorium that you have introduced to the accompanying law is based on a plan of containment and dismantling of incinerators and not on the moratorium that was granted to the final approval of the residue prevention law. And, if we don't incorporate these mouthpieces into the moratorium, it's a woman on the assumption that what it's going to entail is that the flows go to the mouthpieces and the incentive effect of reducing the burden that the moratorium could have will be precisely abandoned, apart from the resolution of the 2020 Parliament, where the moratorium is precisely linked not to the containment plan, but to the processing of the waste bill. In the area of assigned taxes, there are only minor changes in the timing of the inheritance tax, but it is not precisely what should be played with the accompanying law: neither IRPF nor ITP nor AJD. The counselor said to us: "We have found no one in this chamber that explains why we need to detail. We, counselor, put it on the table that there was the possibility to touch taxes, to touch it for higher returns, starting at 60,000_euros, which only collects a 5_percent of the population, and this possibility was missed that we had. And on the subject, too, of the effects of taxes on climate change. Neither the airport tax nor the winter-effect gas emissions tax appears. These sixty dispositions contain many things, but there is no other type of confrontation with the State; neither with the elites nor with the Spanish State. We understand that there is absolute obedience to the constitutional and statutory framework that we have today, and it does not extend rights to public policies that are more advanced than the current ones, and it does not recover the laws that have fallen for the Constitutional Court. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Well... Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.45.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.46.0	Counselors present, president, deputies, deputies, Mr. Roquer... [[Rialles.]] So yes, Counselor, we will submit a motion to the totality of this bill of tax measures. Why? First, because we want to do it, and because we have always done it, and in coherence, because we consider that the project that you present is to accompany a law to which we have presented a message to the totality; but also because there is a whole series of, say, expressions or definitions, from this law, and things that we cannot find, that I believe leads us to do it. I wanted to do a reflection first, a reflection of how we are living this debate today and how we have experienced it the last two years or, it's the same, the last seven years in Catalonia. We have not had a debate in time, either on assumptions or on accompanying measures, in the last few years, basically because of a lack of political capacity and political will, in many cases, of the different governments from which you, therefore, have now inherited your advice. And, besides, we didn't have them, and when we had them, in fact, we had them with a series of media that we consider to have a good share of the blame for the situation that we currently have in Catalonia. But well, this time we haven't had the presupposition in time. And you're telling us that the first big measure they want to approve is that... well, as we don't have the assumption in time ever – and it's true, ever – so we eliminate the obligation to keep it in time. And in this kafkia world you live in, so it's all perfect and wonderful: if we can't complete a rule or we can't complete a law, so we change it and it's gone, it's all right. I understand them, because, in fact, they are already living in a parallel reality that often leads us to this. He told us that... well, it won't be the 10, but they'll probably try to get here on the 1st of the generation. We'll see about that. That's what you say. But it's just that so many counselors have been here, by their advice, that they probably also had their own will, but they couldn't get it... So I do want to complain that we haven't had these assumptions in time and we haven't been able to, say, work properly. I know that some opposition groups have already said that they will support it, just as the assumptions are, before we see them, but we try not to do that. Mirin, my company, the economist and ex-deputy Martí Pachamé, spoke in 2020, when this law was approved, precisely, all that was a pre-pandemic situation – in fact, it was the 12th of February, a_me before we started the confinement–, therefore, that we did see, or as we can see, that there was no real project behind this accompanying law. And I think it's true. I think they can say, today, that's what it is. The accompanying law also lets you see – and you know it perfectly well, counselor – certainly lines of what you want to do or what you want to do your advice and what the Government wants to do for Catalonia, as the future of Catalonia wants to design, and, above all, what it stops doing. And for us, then, it's important. And it's really very complicated – and I understand it – to unite the visions, say, more interventionists, populists, of this left, as my companion, magic, of magical solutions, and, on the other hand, of the more conservative right – and allow'ml'expression and definition – ultranationalist that the government has. I think it's complicated to put one thing together and another, and, actually, we see that. It's hard to connect Mrs. Colau's project with Mr. Puigdemont's project, or not, or maybe not, that I don't know anymore, but in the end..., it's populism, and it's complicated. I understand that, and, in fact, I think it's a tough problem for you. Also, then, on this occasion, I have to talk about the paper that made the opposition. I think the City has been consistent, waiting for the assumptions to be made. But you had, say, many propositions, proposals; you had many..., including love, in this case. In it had one that was the fix, that was the CUP, and you had made a pact with them – in the end it couldn't be – but they already had the PSC and the commons up their hands. You've been able to choose. In fact, Mr. Jordi Riba did very well, and he tried, he tried to make a speech of opposition. I suppose he had to change for the whole week, to see if he did, if he didn't, if he did... In the end, then I think he tried, but it wasn't credible: the PSC had offered itself from the beginning of this process to give support to the Government. Therefore, you had the presuppositions for having, say, many suitors, in this case. For us, as I said before, this law is harmful, because it does not define, because it has not really just expressed... and because, in some way, it continues, in the case of the Government, to maintain a whole series of assertions that for us they are wrong. For me this law is fruit – indeed, harmful consequence, I would say – of this breathless environment many years ago that they built with their deeds. Because they keep thinking – and today they have said it again – that their decisions do not have consequences, that we live encapsulated in their world, that the studies we present as proof and that today my company has expressed to the previous debate, the studies of the London School of Economics or, therefore, all the evidence of the downloads at the innovation race, at the race of competence of the European Union..., that this does not matter, that this does not serve; that, in any way, it may be lied and that no better than you know the truth. And that's sin, perhaps, of a certain wisdom, counselor. You are mistaken, and you must also correct your mistakes. This law I believe is also the fruit of this intention not to change course; that, while some here in this Parliament see that we have the iceberg next door, that we go to the ship and that we will surely end up knocking on it, you continue to play loose chords, in this case, of the orchestra of the Titanic before sinking, counselor. And that I think is dangerous. The combination of measures that they present perpetuate, for us, a loss of opportunity. The middle and working class continues or will continue to paint an unsustainable fiscal pressure, which is maintained and which continues to situate us, counselor, to the group of autonomous communities that are less competitive in fiscal matters. And I think you know that, counselor. That didn't deny it. You have not denied that we are not in this situation, that we are following one of the least competitive autonomous tax communities. So, I understand, Counselor, that you can't deny this, or... or, as a matter of fact, our tax design is wrong. We believe that there is a whole series of taxes that we are not even able to implement, some of the fruits of pacts envisaged, such as those made by this government, not its own, but the former government – a previous government – with the CUP. But there are some who, as you have designed, think that they do not work properly, do not work. One is the CO2 emissions tax, as he said. It's obvious, and I think you know, and you've said more about a group here: who really ends up harming this tax, directly, it's the small autonomes, that practically they don't have the capacity to renew, say, their tool, their important work tool, which is that it's the car. And I don't think that's the right way to hear the model we want for Catalonia. I don't think it's interesting or good for Catalonia either, so all the tax burden we have on tourism, for example, in this case. And a few changes that you've introduced and that we haven't just heard... I'd like that too... you won't be able to explain it to us right now, but at some point we can hear it, what it's like to delete the definition of touristic municipalities. If I don't get it wrong, you've also introduced it into this measurement law. He didn't talk about it, but I think it's hard and important, because it's going to generate as a minimum a municipal impact in a lot of municipalities where actually this situation meant a plus and an economic dynamism that they don't have. He was also talking – and he was talking – about what you will do with the ICF. I think the ICF has been at the center of the debate for many weeks. You ended up transforming one thing, a tool that was good for the generation of economic dynamism in Catalonia, into a patriotic insurer of embezzlers, counselor. [[Someone laughed.]] I'm sorry, but it's kind of what they just did. They're just talking about the ICF to do this kind of management. Now they're worried about making a public bank, in fact, with the ICF. I think it's a mistake. We already know what happened to the public bank, and you know it, in fact, better than anyone else, because you have some experience in this. We think it's a mistake. So, it's a mistake they want to make with the ICF, it's a mistake they made with the ICF. But it's the same, because you, as I said before, are at yours, say, candy and think that nothing happens, that parallel universes don't matter, and that in the end they are always right and never wrong. Therefore, this, therefore, will continue to be done and will be maintained. The issue of incinerators in the territories has also been discussed. We're against it, directly. We are against it if there are no alternatives, and there are no alternatives, or at least they have not exposed them. I think that when we talk and have a serious debate – and I do agree with what the PSC said – then we can determine whether this is the way or not, but they can't introduce this into an accompanying law as it is. And what can we ask...? What do we really think? That's what's in the law; and what do we think should be in the law? I won't have time to explain it, but it is obvious that only – only – a liberal project can lead to this transition. That's all. So, all else is to keep doing exactly what we've done for years. And maybe you, counselor, might even agree; you won't say, but you might agree. We want a reduction, yes, we want a reduction in the capital transfer tax, for example. He also commented this morning on my company that could, therefore, be reduced to the set_per_cent to purchases, for example, that it does not exceed 300,000_euros, or to make it progressive, its increment, in acquisitions of up to 1_million euros. The practical elimination of the inheritance and donation tax... we believe it does generate this ecosystem for this liberal change we want from our economy. We must lower – but do it well – the lower returns, therefore, the IRPF. I think that – and we have also commented here – they make them lower in Catalonia are the ones that pay the most to all of Spain. And I don't think that's supposed to be feasible or, at least, we shouldn't allow it. We'd have to eliminate a good part of our tax credit. We should simplify taxes, simplify prices; allocate more resources, too, to the fight against fraud. We also need an administrative reduction and a better efficiency. You were talking about 061. We paid him, during the pandemic, 061; he was paid, during the pandemic. They want to change all this right now, but they're paying for it. That is to say, we believe – and I will not be able to finish expressing exactly who is the project that we would defend in this law – that there is more than enough reason than enough of all those arguments that are not in this law – that are not in this law – to say that in this case, we will present a statement to the totality. The only thing we can say is that we want to change the course, to change the movement of this vessel to the iceberg to which we are heading. Because, counselor, in this ship we travel all the Catalans, not just you. Thank you, Counselor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.47.0	And now there's the word, on behalf of the Group Mixt, Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.48.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, honourable councillor, deputies. I've been pleased to address the President of the Generalitat as well... I see he's not there. I don't know if he has any other compromises, even though this law we approve of today seems to me to be important force, not to mention that the laws of this late are of the most important. But, well, I guess you have to have another compromise, because, if you don't, it's hard to hear that I'm not here. Well, these budgets and this accompanying law – we've already told you these days – are late and they're bad. But it is that, moreover, they have evidenced that these are the budgets of the discord of this Government. You are a poorly-educated coalition of populisms, and you have shown, therefore, that your project was merely destructive. We, as you know, from our group have tabled an amendment in its entirety: we do not like these budgets that you have brought, nor, of course, the tax measures that accompany them. And I'm going to explain why. Look, I have listened very carefully these days to your statements, which you have been making, about these new accounts. I have also attended with real stupefaction to what we were being explained, as several advisers in their appearances, explaining the budgets of their sections. And I tell you, I don't give the approved one to any of the sections. None, Mr. Giró. You have qualified these budgets as expansive. He told us: "The lever of the social and economic revival of Catalonia – in his words, Mr. Counsellor. They explain to me how absolutely nothing can be reactivated by having Catalans suffocated to taxes. It's just that it's first in economics, Mr. Giró. And this law perpetuates those taxes. But before I enter the bottom of the law, I want to stop first in the form, because these budgets and the accompanying law are the bill that the Government, the Government of Mr Aragonès, owes to the CUP, no more or less. Mr Aragonès signed a pact with the devil so that he could be invested president, and now he owes him, and they are charging him. They're not accounted for by Catalans. These are accounts designed and designed to satisfy the extreme left, which may well have been the CUP, now it looks like they're going to be the common ones, but..., so much rides, so much rides. And, ultimately, also budgets to satisfy himself, Mr Aragonès, because he knows that his stay in Sant Jaume square depends precisely on them. Mr. Aragonès, you built a government on fast-paced sands, and the price to pay to keep it flowing, so it's expensive. The problem is that you are passing that bill on to all Catalans. Look, when the CUP or even the gentlemen of the commons demand, for example, to cancel the Hard Rock project in Tarragona..., do you know who gets more harmed by all this? Well, look, mainly the Tarraconians and, of course, the rest of the Catalans as well. Look, Tarragona is the province with the highest unemployment rate in Catalonia, above the average. Of course, it turns out that since the anti-capitalists don't like the project, then, goodbye departure in the budgets. So why are you going to facilitate thousands of direct, indirect and induced jobs? You, instead of thinking, for example, about those needs that the Tarraconians have and, I insist, also the rest of Catalans..., no, you are more attentive to the whims that your partners have. And I admit that other boyfriends have come out on the way to you in these weeks, haven't they? We have seen Mr Illa offering himself practically every quarter of an hour, which, in fact, although it was something that many of us have seen come for a long time, it has not been any less embarrassing to us. Because, of course, I insist, it is that the gentlemen of the PSC call themselves 'alternatives'. Alternative to what? If you have been offering yourselves... without even knowing the content of these budgets you were already asking for the time to support them. And Aragonès come and tell them that not day after day. Why? Because deep down, you guys didn't like the PSC. Not because during the campaign Mr Aragonès spent all day saying that with Illa no, because Mr Illa also said it, and the second and a half after the election had already been forgotten. But, of course, how could you then continue to speak of that solid independenceist majority? In fact, it has already been remembered today by the gentlemen of Junts per Catalunya, that this majority does not exist, and that Mr Aragonès, once again, Esquerra Republicana, once again, following his tradition, has again betrayed his partners. I've seen simpler puzzles than this, Mr. Giró, I have to tell you. And it's not that I'm doing here an exercise of understanding on my part, because in the end everyone has what they're looking for. And to the three of you, to these three parties, all that unites you is to separate the Catalans, between them and also with the rest of Spain. And, of course, with these limbs it was impossible to make another basket. So no. These budgets and their accompanying law, as I told you, do not like them either in form or in substance. And I think they have missed a golden opportunity to demonstrate what Mr Aragonès told us in his investiture speech: he told us that he was going to rule in a radically different way from how it had been done so far. Well, I'm sorry to tell you that this law is predictable, continuous and immobile. Of course, what else could we also expect if, to date, the last budgets of Catalonia had Mr Aragonès' signature? Because, of course, he shows up here like he's new, like no one knows him, right? He tells us: « Let's do... « Let's do it is the favorite phrase that Mr Aragonès has and that he has this government, as if they had not had the opportunity to do it in the last two legislatures, in which Esquerra was part of the government. They didn't do it then or do it now either. Or worse, because the gentlemen of Esquerra Republicana had also been part of two other governments, other tripartites in Catalonia, with the gentlemen of the PSC, also with Initiative, and it was bad for the Catalan economy – bad. They spent more than they had and, again, the broken dishes were paid by all Catalans, in the form of taxes and cuts. And that's exactly where the creature weeps, yet: they mismanage before and they mismanage now. And what worries me, above all, Mr. Giró, is how far away I see you from reality. Get out of the office, talk to the citizens. Talk, for example, to the nightlife sector, which has hardly been allowed to lift their heads, with these random restrictions on them. Talk to the merchants, who have had to make accounting jugglings and a lot of sacrifices in order to keep their business afloat. Talk to the self-employed. Look, Catalonia has lost more than twenty-thousand SMEs during 2020, according to the data of the Generalitat itself; companies that, for the most part, had four or five employees. Multiply those five employees for the twenty-thousand companies that have left, Mr. Giró. How many families are suffering in Catalonia? How many families have difficulty reaching the end of the month? Talk to those families, whom I also insist, do not let them breathe with taxes. Talk to the young people. Catalonia is the second territory of the European Union where youth unemployment has increased the most since the covid crisis broke out, according to a report prepared by Avalot - Joves UGT. It is well above the European average. To me it seems incomprehensible that triumphalist tone you have used these days. Child poverty – which you have also mentioned before, Mr Giró, about poverty – has grown to 33,4_per_cent of children and adolescents in Catalonia. Almost half a million children, according to UNICEF, are in poverty. I, with this data, tell you that I find it very difficult to understand that self-completion that you have shown these days, including today. I say to you: talk to the citizens, who, moreover, are the ones who pay us the salary. And, above all, I think you should also be more cautious and more cautious about the announcements you make. Because in addition to not being good budgets, not a good accompanying law, as well as continuing to waste money in parallel structures, in chiringuitos, in high offices, in Spanish- and sectarian television programs, etc., as well as continuing to drown Catalans precisely to pay for all this I have just told you, they are stone cardboard budgets. One listens to you so triumphal by explaining those who, at first, could even hit. What's going on, that, you scratch one a little bit, it looks like you don't. And your macroeconomic forecasts, Mr Giró, are not realistic. Those forecasts are not going to be met, Mr. Giró. I wish I was wrong, but you yourself mention in your analysis the economic forecasts that the International Monetary Fund predicted for Spain a few months ago, which are forecasts that have already had to be corrected from Brussels just a few days ago – corrected, of course, downwards. That is why I insist that it is so important for you to be cautious about the announcements and predictions you make. There were many people, I insist, who had many hopes placed on Mr Aragonès – it was not my case or that of my group – because it is true that it is the first time that he is the honourable president, but the Catalans had already suffered him as an honorable economic adviser. And the thing about raising and creating taxes seems to be carrying it, Mr. Aragonès, as a standard. This year you, who are your successor, have sold us to a bowl and dish that this law does not include new taxes – you did not say so. I don't know if you expect us to thank you, Mr. Giró, for not expressing us any more, do you? That must be it. It must be that with the fifteen own taxes that we have in Catalonia and the autonomous portion of the highest IRPF we didn't have enough. That, moreover, is not true, because there are seven new rates that create this new law, and we will also see what happens to the new negotiations with the commons, which we already know are governing at a stroke of sand. And, in fact, what was happening to us today from the press is precisely that they want to create more taxes. It was precisely in this law that you could have taken advantage of to eliminate taxes in this year, which has been a year and is being a very hard year for Catalans, who are standing thanks to their effort and despite their mismanagement. And you have failed to take advantage of this law to compensate the Catalans for that tax effort you are making, because it is the Spaniards who pay the most taxes. They do not incorporate any tax rebates into this law, nor do they create new deductions or bonuses. Nor are existing ones improved. And, as I told you at the beginning of my speech, this is a law that does not relieve Catalans. Here the only one who relieves is Mr. Aragonès, because he has gained a little more time in that sword of Damocles than the CUP placed on him on the day of the investiture. Look, this accompanying law – and you..., was one of the points I cited – contemplates the exceptional postponement of the deadline to pay the inheritance and donation tax up to two more years. You are therefore recognizing the difficulties in paying this tax that many families have. Of course, I wonder: will those difficulties not be because you in the middle of the pandemic, when more people were dying, took advantage of a law like this precisely to raise the inheritance tax, Mr. Giró? That is one of the most vile acts I have seen them do in this Parliament since I am a Member. It was immoral, how you took advantage of the worst moment in recent history, no matter the pain or difficulties, to bleed the Catalans even more. Look, after its rise, inherit an amount of about 200,000 euros, which comes to be more or less the average price of housing in Catalonia, costs sixteen times more than before. Sixteen, Mr. Giró. No wonder you can't pay and you have to give this extension now. And don't come to the point that it's the rich here who inherit it, because I tell you that the rich have no problem paying. The problem of paying is that families, who are in debt right now, have it, and I insist that they are having a very bad time. Humbly, middle-class, working families, whose parents collapsed all their lives working so they could leave something to their children. And this is a tax that directly attacks the savings of families. It's an anachronistic tax. It's a tax that's unfair. It is also a tax that creates inequalities, because, for example, there is no such thing as Castile and León, there is no such thing as Andalusia, there is no such thing as Murcia, there is no such thing as Aragon, there is no such thing as Madrid, for example. And it's a tax that's passed into the amoral category since you decided last year to raise it. I think you should have taken advantage of this law, Mr. Giró, to eliminate this tax. Subsequently, article 54 of the Act sets out a period of eighteen months for the Government to approve the plan for simplification and reorientation of the institutional public sector. To me this point has already seemed directly to me to be a real take of hair. Look, this is the Generalitat with more councils, up to fourteen councils have you. Among senior officials, prospective staff or managers of public enterprises, the Generalitat has 465 positions, which is fifty_per_cent more than ten years ago, and it's news they gave on TV3. I remember perfectly when Artur Mas cut high charges and said, literally, that "only those who were expendable had been eliminated. Come on, more than half the charges were unnecessary, and you've recovered them. And now we have to believe that, in eighteen months, you are going to think about how to reduce those charges that you have invented yourself. Really, a hairdo. And, look, I'm telling you..., it doesn't take eighteen months, I'll sum it up in eighteen seconds: the superfluous, out; the duplicate, out, and those who don't account and don't even know what they do, like, for example, the famous overseas delegates, out, too, Mr. Giró – delegates who charge more than a minister. If you don't know where to cut, start here. In eighteen seconds, I've summed it up. Look, after the process, the Catalans are paying for the process, the constant lie and the permanent political instability, as they fatten the administration and add up to high office. The support of communism will therefore bring more of the same: a huge Generalitat and an increasingly small Catalan society and economy. Every time you put your hand in the economy, you reduce the prosperity of Catalans, just like every time you put your hand in society, you reduce freedom, Mr. Giró. And the People's Party is exactly the opposite of what you are doing. We are building an alternative of truth, an alternative to escape the decadence and discord in which you have brought us, an alternative of prosperity and freedom for all Catalans. And I insist that today you had the opportunity to prove that you wanted this too, but no. And the change of chromes, moreover, has been so blatant that I think we don't even need to explain it. You could have brought today another law that was a real lever to boost the economy, in the form of tax incentives for businesses, SMEs, self-employed, with tax rebates and bonuses in the IRPF for those who are going through the worst, for those families that are barely coming to the end of the month... But no, you have preferred something else. Look, these are not the accounts that all Catalans need; they are accounts for a few to continue living from the story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.49.0	Thank you very much. So, after the defenses of the papers presented to the totality, it has now the word, to fix its position, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podem, the deputy Mr Joan Carles Gallego... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. David Cid Colomer asks to speak.]] Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.50.0	I'm saying that first, the groups that support the government...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.51.0	No, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.52.0	...and then we went.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.53.0	No, no, First come all the groups that present it to the totality and then those that do not present it, for this order: first, In Comú Pode, and then, the groups that support the Government. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.54.0	Okay. Good night to all of you. Well, it seems obvious, doesn't it? If we want to process the law of presuppositions, then we have to let the law of accompaniment be processed, because without the law of accompaniment there would be no law of presuppositions, right? For a long time. [[the timer riu]] Man, there are things... [[Voice remorse and some applause.]] There are things that are obvious, aren't there? So, say we don't present the message to the full to the law of measures because it would be contradictory not to have presented it to the law of assumptions. You mean we like the measurement bill? Home, the measuring law must incorporate... the things that we have pre-recorded at this time must obviously be incorporated into the measuring law. This means that we already note here, say, a deficiency, in the current presentation of the bill of measures, in the draft, because the draft will have to be transformed into the law from, say, a process of introduction of papers that responds to the requests and agreements that we are closing and those that can be produced in the proposed parliamentary procedure. Therefore, from this point of view, we have this plantation, which is obvious. It is true that there are things that we have not talked about in the negotiation, but that obviously we are debating them and challenging them, in some way, in the process of issues to the bill of measures. I think some of them coincide with different groups, don't they? Some fans refer to the issue..., trying not to violate the right to collective bargaining – of public workers and workers, in this case – understand that those things that affect working conditions and such will soon be able to negotiate them; once negotiated, they will be incorporated into the legal framework. What you can't do is use the legal mark to fail the right to collective bargaining. This would, in a way, run counter to international conventions that recognize trade union freedom. And as they recognize trade union freedom, they recognize the right to collective bargaining, but also that their own workers organize, in a free manner, the ways of choosing themselves in their own representativeness. It cannot be that the law of measures suggests that trade union election processes will be determined by the Government on the margins of negotiation with legitimate workers' representatives. It's one thing, say, manual, to hear us, isn't it? Therefore, we will discuss this, because we understand that it would violate trade union freedom and, obviously, the rights of collective bargaining that correspond to it. So this is obvious. Another makes reference to the subject of article 76. Rule 76... clearly, we don't think it's a waste. We could say that through the law of measures we detract competitions from the municipal sphere, from the field of local administration, right? That is why we would also argue that Article 76..., it cannot be that you compete in relation to urban issues and such, that at these times they are in the marque of the metropolitan area, continue, through the law of measures, to be centralized, so to speak, within the scope of the Generality. That's why we're planting this too. Then, obviously, there's a general kind of layout that will sometimes also be contradictory to others, right? But that's it, isn't it? So, we also have to go along with the fact that the law of measures does not introduce excessive standard changes that are theoretically not to go into the law of measures, because what we are doing is to prevent, say, the processes of debate, citizen participation, political participation, because we place them in a law that was too fast and does not allow to deepen it, right? Above all those norms that have no direct presuppositional impact, but that we use the law of measures, type of law, to place them. Well, then, these. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I think we'd have to be very curious because you're not where you're not near them. Those who have a presuppostarial impact may not have been remedied, but here you can try to avoid this perversion that sometimes is a woman, to introduce some elements of these, right? On the other hand, we have the other..., say, there will obviously be things that we will have to incorporate, because if we are raising some questions about the presuppositional project, some better quantitative ones that are to be placed in the presuppositional project, it will be very early – presuppositionally – in parallel, to establish the rule that you have the possibility of making this presuppositionary expenditure, right? Therefore, in these questions we do not present the challenge to the totality, but we do announce that, through the discussion of the issues, obviously we do not give up improving the law of measures in the double sense, say so, eh? , in order to try that those questions which invade..., questions which do not correspond to the law of measures and which invade different areas of competence – follow that of trade union freedom, follow that of municipal competitions in matters of urban management –..., therefore these must be out. On the other hand, those we consider... I don't know, if we've been talking about the tax on ultra-processed foods, then, depending on how we've agreed to put the specific reference in the measurement bill. Well, these things will be on the table. And, for our part, nothing more. Now I'm talking about the next one. Come on, bye. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.55.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Jordi Munell has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.56.0	Thank you, President. President, Vice President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies, Public that follows us, good evening. First of all, I think I've already done the year in a plethora like this, I want to claim that family reconciliation is impossible, at these times, huh? [[Greetings.]] So... Then, congratulate Councilman Giró and his team from the Department of Economics, therefore, for bringing these presuppositions to proceed in a reasonable manner in order to begin exercise 2022 with presupposition. Therefore, congratulations also on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group. We also have to thank that you allow processing. We have to thank the Group of Catalonia in Comú May. Now the deputy of the Ugly City... was talking to us about a similitude of a ship with a rumb, and I got a little bit of a half-way, right? We have a ship, which is Catalonia, with a few remittances, that we are the ones who support the government, and there were, therefore, the companies of the CUP among them. And to feed us, so there's food, right? And the menu was prepared by Counselor Giró, and he brought us the menu. The CUP didn't just like them and they've dropped the boat or stopped rowing – maybe they haven't dropped the boat, they've stopped rowing. And now they've been able to row the Catalonians in common. But we have to make sure that the noise is not bad. Rumb continues to feel the direction of our country's independence, and that's why we're working from here, isn't it? [[Some applause.]] So, the menu turned, huh? So, it's a good menu, we're going to say it in the presupposition presentation. Even this morning I heard Mrs Albiach on the radio saying, "It's a good assumption. Therefore, we are glad that what we also say from Juntes per Catalunya, therefore, is being ratified. And surely, also, as has been said, it is not the best assumption, because the best assumption would be that you don't have all these hardships that we suffer like the country – it has also been repeated many times, and therefore I won't get extended. They are the hardships, therefore, that it turns out that they can only incorporate a part of the 2019 debt of the third additional provision of the Statute, they can only incorporate a part of the debt of these 1,000_millions of Mossos d'Esquadra. And, so, they gave us pessics, huh? But we cannot make a decent assumption in a country where citizens deserve all dignity. And so we're trying, so, this, making a assumption that it could be better. Could it be better from now on? Well, I'm sure of it. There are parties that have responsibilities in the state government, and therefore they could compromise..., just as they have recognized that this is a good assumption, that also helps us to have the 2023 assumption, the next one, not all these hardships that we have had to deal with or that we are patenting even as the country at the time of having tickets, huh? Therefore, everyone here is welcome, to join in this line. As has already been said: with this thought that has appeared in the general premise of the State, of 1,600_million more for Catalonia, so..., there are parties that have responsibility in the government of the State, and, therefore, if they want to help the citizens of Catalonia, they can also join. And, therefore, we would have a better premise, even better than the one that Councilman Giró presented to us, which is already good, but which can be better, eh? Therefore, this is a presupposition, in fact, with heaviness. Last year he said it was a supposition of 155, because we continued to have, as we say, State hardships that influenced the supposition that hypothetically, in that case... Councillor Aragones could have made a better supposition, so, with everything that the State owed us, that did not pay us, but that after the citizens of Catalonia demanded us, eh? Because I have also said this several times: they demand answers and state services, especially in the middle of the pandemic and post-pandemic, with a unfortunately autonomous assumption, and, moreover, with many shortcomings and very heavy. And that I think we can't give up going over and over again. Mr. Giró said before: "Imagine. I'm asking for them, too, let's imagine. I repeat what Mr. Turned: "Let's imagine. And we have to imagine everyone, not just what we think about independence. Let's all imagine, because we're all serving the people of Catalonia. And the more than 7 million or 7 million inhabitants we would have imagined that we could do without all these hardships..., that the State has been under-privileged, with common debt, but also, for example, with less infrastructure, or with no compliment on the assumption executed every year – and another year and another year –, or, for example, with the lack of rolling stock. Therefore, we can all imagine this, we are still independent or we are still unionists. Because this imagination we have to put in the service of the citizens of our country, these 7 million people to whom we serve and to whom we have to give the highest dignity in the service. That's why we're all needed, like I said before. Because, therefore, confrontation with the State can be done by some with this feeling and compromise that we have with independence, and others can be done because they are sharing government action with the State. And, therefore, in the Catalonia of yes everyone can contribute to improving, which is what we will do now, with the parliamentary handling of this assumption. Therefore, improve it to have a better assumption, with more resources, if we can, serving the citizens of Catalonia, which is what they deserve. I'm going to do now with the accompanying law, which, in fact, is what we're debating now. And I'll make a little introduction, too. Congressman Riba was talking to us about what this law did – and some other group as well – that it is a law that takes advantage of to put everything there. I also think that Mrs. Escarp said last year's fever, she said the same thing – I don't know if you read her speech and prepared it... She said the same thing. I also told him the same thing. I said to him: « Between assumptions and assumptions there is enough time, on the part of groups that do not like this method, to propose changes with the processing of assumptions. That doesn't happen at all, but everyone's complaining, the day we go through the measurement bill. Actually, I've made a little bit of a... a hemerotheque, when you were ruling with Mr. President Montilla. So 2007 brought twenty-eight articles to amend, legislatively, with the accompanying law; 2008 was already fifty-three, 2009 was sixty-five and 2010 was eighty-eight. Therefore, neither is the change in this, with the law of measures, it is not an unusual thing that we are now inventing what we are supporting the government, but it has been done for many years. And, therefore, I invite, as I said (some applause)..., if anyone does not agree, there is time, between assumptions and assumptions, to motivate legislative changes, because it is different, the processing of assumptions. And, therefore, this is an object, for example, of debate and majorities, and of everyone who wants to join in there. I'll quickly make a quick reading of the... the bill of measures and arrange for them that Mr. Giró has announced to us. These sixty-four legal provisions, which are modified in some quarters, huh? It's not change at all... For example, with the water canon theme. And, as Mr Giró also said, I think it is appropriate, therefore, to simplify the procedure for those vulnerable people or families who have difficulty accessing the social rate. Therefore, this is a better social legislation. Also with the issue of defining and realising the non-productive acts of legal persons; it is also another element that is modified. Another important issue is the transparency of the Administration; therefore, it is modified..., or so, there is a precept that regulates transparency obligations on the part of the Public Administration. I think it is important that the Administration follows the maximum of transparent, and therefore that it is possible to give account, with full transparency to the citizen, of where the taxes that the Generalitat manages, which the Generalitat enters, are destined. And, therefore, all of them, the climate fund, the CO2 tax, the tax on the particles emitted by the industry, etc. And, therefore, maximum transparency. Also – Counselor Giró has not made any, also – the Generality must have the maximum data and information, manage these data... And, therefore, the Department of Economics has to make a plan, so, already thinking of future exercises, and, therefore, also have this maximum amount of data that allows it to work long..., in the medium term, in fact, do what you do after the assumption. Or also the reports that allow us to evaluate and corroborate the introduction of the gender perspective in public assumptions. Also the theme of modifying or modernizing the Administration, an administration of the 21st century. Therefore, the process of ordering payments, the figure of the payer, must already be done in technological means. It's also important and uplifting to make a modern administration. Or, for example, that Infrastructures. The whole issue of incorporating alternative energies, green energies, from the point of view of public buildings and of the heritage elements of the Generality, can be improved. And, therefore, also a greener administration, in this sense. Also the theme – it has already been said, it has also been done –..., the right to equality and non-discrimination in access to public places of security and emergencies. Or, for example, the article that also improves the subject of the police structure to facilitate its maintenance in small towns. Also, for example, the Cos d'Agents Rurales can also be trained at the Institute of Public Security in Catalonia. Or, for example, that the Generality, also the Government, is given the mandate to make a plan of order and simplification of the sector to optimize public resources, efficiency and organizational efficiency. Also the Anti-Fraud Office, which, despite criticism, we have to adapt precisely to the European Parliament's 1987 Directive. So that's the change, too. At the cultural level, for example, the creation of territorial networks of museums to provide them in a way to have a wider range of services. Or, for example, another important issue: the coordination between care services and social services to ensure integrated and people-centred care that can respond to the needs of the health system and the care system together. Or, for example, therefore, the theme of the different modifications, also, that affect the transport in marine waters, the protection of the atmospheric environment, the motorized access to the natural environment... Or, for example, the railway theme. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I'm running out of time, but I'm almost done. Therefore, I believe that each group, obviously, will highlight one or the other. It seemed to me... to highlight these. And, finally, also reiterate that with the processing and the better, obviously, since Junts, we will try to continue to defend this model of country that we defend, that of independence, the best country, the best country to serve the citizens of Catalonia, the Catalonia of yes. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.57.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Raquel Sans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.58.0	Thank you, President. Good night to everyone. Don't worry, I'll call you later on to intervene in this House. Today is an important day for the country; today we have discussed assumptions, and now we have also discussed the law of measures that accompany them. It is about the first assumptions of this republican generality, assumptions, as has been said in addition, expansius– they grow in more than 5,000_million euros– that we will not only be able to respond to the needs of this country's citizens practically two years after the health emergency that has ended up becoming a social emergency, but also that we will be able to start this transformation of the country into a green, feminist, social and democratic claus. And, as did Deputy Munell, I also believe that, in this reflection of feminist transformation, today it is important to make self-criticism about the hours and uses of time, and conciliation, and how difficult it is for people to be able to devote themselves to politics. Made the self-criticism, and returning to the subject we are dealing with, with these assumptions and the law of measures that accompany them we begin to make possible, as I said, this transformation, and we equip ourselves with the tools to culminate the turn towards the left that commissioned us the city on the 14th of February. But before I focus on the bill of measures, it's worth it to make a short run for the way it's taken us all the way here. The assumptions of the year 2017 allowed to reverse years of retailing and to make a turn in investments in social policies. The 2020s were the prerequisites of recovering current expenditure in health, education, social action, recovering the pre-expenditure at retail, without recovering the deficit, thanks to the consolidation of a green tax and progress. And the 2022s are the assumptions that lay the groundwork for future shared prosperity. After recovering, we move forward and transform, because these are the assumptions of the free P2 and also of the reduction of the rates to P3; they are the assumptions of the public energy; the assumptions of the twenty-five percent in primary attention; the ones that work for the two_per_cent cultural and to plant in front of the housing emergence; the ones of the shock plan against the social emergence and the source of industrial conversion; the ones that pass from the paradigm of guaranteed return to the vanguard of universal basic income. That is why, from the Republican Left, we are convinced that the country cannot allow this opportunity to pass. As the Councillor Giró was quite certain to say, and today he has also repeated himself repeatedly, it was a time of "presupposition or presupposition". And that's why we're acting responsibly, because the challenge is capital, and in order to be able to put it on hold in the long run as an up-to-date assumption that I don't see the emergency situation that the people of this country have been suffering from for almost two years. In order to be able to make these assumptions possible, we must also approve this law of measures, a combination of tax and administrative measures very diverse, among which we will highlight some, such as the addresses to victims of male violence. The measures affecting the inheritance tax or the service of the 061 Salut Respon are also particularly relevant. All of them, measures aimed at the long term this transformation that the country needs and that is the key back of the government led by President Aragonès. Let's focus on these measures. In a feminist and human rights guarantee clause, I would say, the Government incorporates an essential measure in the logic of repairing victims of male violence: they will cover with public resources the costs of burying victims of feminicides. The Department of Equality and Feminism will also assume the expense of repatriating the victim's body if this is necessary. The repair is one of the axes of the fight against masclistic rapes, as it is also allocated more than 30_million euros to prevent, assist and repair masclistic rapes, or 325_million to feminize the security services and emergencies of our country. From the perspective of green transformation, we believe that we should overcome the sterilized debates of "yes to all or "no to all. Ours is a compromise with progress and sustainability, it is a compromise with making progress and sustainability compatible. And one of the clearest examples – we also felt this late – are the macroprojects of incinerators that threaten points of the Catalan territory, such as Circles or June. This bill of measures, complementing precisely the parliamentary mandate, incorporates a moratorium on our waste incineration projects, a parliamentary mandate that they say is impossible to fulfil, but for which they only call for political will. We need a new waste management model that prioritizes prevention, recovery and recycling. Councilwoman Jordan and the Government are completely compromised, but as long as we do not complete this new model, this law of measures will prevent them from launching projects on the island of the territory and without a prior reflection that must, yes, end with a new law of residue. From the point of view of social transformation, the law envisages designing the itinerary for the internalization of the 061 Salut Respon, a measure aimed at strengthening the public services of this country. In this case, moreover, it is especially significant and I would say that I am doing it with a servant... with some workers who have been and are still at the bottom of the dog during this whole health crisis. And, as a key to democratic transformation – it was also said – transparency is a fundamental element in ensuring democracy, and accountability is the basis of transparency and democracy as well. And this government reinforces it with different reports in this line – not enough has Councillor Giró told us – that they are on the line..., precisely aimed at ensuring this transparency and providing us with all the necessary information. In fiscal matters – it was also said – the bill includes some modifications, most of which have a technical character. However, to give just one example, the law provides for the possibility to pay the inheritance tax up to two years. Until now, let's remember, the norm allowed to postpone it a maximum of one year. It is a measure designed for all those people who have a wealth-formed heritage and who do not have the liquidity to cope with the payment of this tax. A show that the compromise with a redistributive and ambitious progress tax should not be linked to a monolithic administration; on the contrary, the greatest legitimacy of an administration is the ability to respond to the city and hear its difficulties. In short, we understand that these assumptions are an opportunity. From the Republican Left we are very clear that we do not want to rule to manage the while, but to transform our present and build a more free future, just and fairer. Still unrecovered from the impact of the pandemic, we understand that there are a lot of people who can't wait. We cannot afford, with the country, to finance large projects without assessing their environmental impact. We can't afford inactive Romanesque Romanesque light prices continue to rise and energetics are unable to fulfill environmental commitments. We cannot allow industrial aid to be left in no way when there are companies that decide to leave in order to smooth out their benefits. That is why we cannot allow ourselves to condition these assumptions to those who are willing not to transform the country; in fact, we need allies to make it possible. And keeping the turn on the left and the transformer is what we're trying to do. And we were delighted to be able to do so with the CUP, and we would continue to work to find the necessary agreements in the future, because we need all the strength to continue to turn to the left that has barbed the step to a speculative project like the Prat airport, driven from Madrid, without taking into account the territory and with a difficult environmental impact. [[applause]] The left-hand turn that has allowed the only game on Olympic games in these assumptions to be to consult the people, because we do not only believe in republicanism and democracy, but they are the basis of our political action. With these assumptions, we have the option to strengthen the left-hand turn or to strengthen the ones that want to condition it so that nothing changes. They cannot condition the development of a public energy to which they work rapeseed rape with IBEX 35. We cannot make feminist transformation subject to the criteria of those who exclude trans people from the struggle for equality. We cannot leave the rescue of culture to those who need to be forced to defend the català rau. Today we have a dilemma ahead of us: either we take advantage of this opportunity to push for a republican transformation aimed at building a shared prosperity future, or we let the old ones, by action or omission, end up pushing policies that only benefit the old ones. It's in our hands, we compromised ourselves in the investiture, and they can be sure we will. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-22-1801.59.0	Okay. So the debate ended, as the government did not intervene, in accordance with Rule 116.5 of the Rules, we shall proceed to the joint vote of all the items to the full return of the bill of fiscal, administrative and public sector financing by 2022. I make the third call to the vote. [[Widow's remorse.]] So, that's how the vote starts. As the papers to the totality of the bill's return have been rejected, with 62 votes in favour, 65 votes against and 8 abstentions, this legislative initiative continues its processing. [[Greetings.]] The topic of timetables has been discussed. And, indeed, these times are not compatible with conciliation. The repression is not, either, and the memory that at the doorman's meeting we agreed this time to be able to accompany our companion Pau Juvilla this morning to the TSJ, to the court. [[Greetings.]] No more theme, raise the session. Thank you very much.
