ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.1.0	Good morning. Let's resume the session. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Unfortunately, before I begin I have to communicate a new victim of general rape, to Porqueres, who has just confirmed to us the Department of Interior. And, therefore, on behalf of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime, and I reiterate Parliament's commitment to eradicating any form of violence against women and also to aging for the record and accompanying their family and friends in their feelings. Okay, as you know, with the Protocol of Dol of the Parliament of Catalonia against Masclist Violence, approved by the Working Group on Gender Equity, this presidency proposes to make now the minute of silence and not to make it to the main facenna, because also, with the covid measures, there are no agglomerations at the up and down of the stairs. So, if it seems to you, we'd do the minute of silence for this victim. [[The chamber serves a minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. [[Asking the Government about policies to guarantee the right to housing]] [[300-00001/13]] And, in the recovery of the points of the order of the day, we will deal with the new point, the inquiry to the Government on the policies to guarantee the right to housing, presented by the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Pomão. To make the presentation of the inquiry, Ms. Susanna Segovia has the word, for a space of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.2.0	Thank you very much, President. Members, Members, actually cost, to begin the inquiry after the news that the president has just told us. And I would also like to take advantage of these first few seconds of parliamentary intervention to condemn a new victim of male violence, which is a sham that affects all of us. And we will only succeed in ending it if we really make an effort like the country, like society, to change this model and this patriarchal and male society, which is what condemns half the population to inequality and many women to abuse and violence. Okay. We started this legislature with one of the themes – the members of the government already know – of the previous legislature, which is one of our particular obsessions, right? , which is the issue of housing. And we did want to start by saying hello to the new councillor, Councillor Puignero, and making a record for Councillor Calvet, who is now going to continue as a member of the Chamber, because we really think it was an intense relationship, at some fruitful moments and at other more conflicting moments, which we had as a parliamentary group. But I would like to start with a first question, Mr. Puignero, and that is: will you be responsible for housing policies in this legislature? Because, of course, presumably, in the proposal for a resolution on the creation of commissions and the structure of the government that was approved, housing policies followed the advice that is now called "Digital Policies, Infrastructure and Urban Agenda", but for which we were pleased at the Portaveus Board, this could change, and it seems that it could pass to Social Rights, with Mrs. Violant Cervera. Clearly, it's a little complicated, making an inquiry without knowing if you will be responsible for these housing policies. It will be one of the first things that I would like to be able to answer in your intervention. Because it's that the feeling that it gives is that a topic that is fit, that it's one of the main emergencies that we're living in Catalonia, that it's the housing emergency, and that it's many years ago that there's no answer, so..., it's that right now we don't know who will be responsible for it, because we thought it was you, but now it may not be you. It is also a theme..., a change of focus: it is not the same perspective of housing policies from the council that plans and orders the territory, where there is the Incasòl, for example, that from the council of Social Rights, that would be giving it a much more assistanceist view, much more based on aid, and not of defining policies and model of housing and urban development. Therefore, it would be like a first big question that we ask. We will continue to insist on the issue of housing, because we consider that, basically, we are exactly the same as, when four years ago, I made my first question about housing in this Parliament: it has not progressed in practice. The little progress that has been made in this later legislature has been at the standard and legislative level. There have been important breakthroughs, and we will not deny that. Nor will we deny that, obviously, these adventures are not exactly merited by the Government, or not only by the Government, but, in good part, by the organizations and social movements that lead the struggle for the right to housing in Catalonia. And we're talking, quite clearly, about the law of yield content – the law of regulation of loguers, as is usually known – and, more importantly, we've seen in the last few days like figures, six months after the adoption of this law, they're giving the reason that regulating loguers is good and that regulating loguers is necessary, not only in Catalonia, but also throughout the State, and it's a challenge that we have pending at the level of the Government of the State. And from this point of view, I also place the Socialist Party because we're still working on it, and once in a while, we're all pushing forward the regulation of loguers at the state level, with the new law of housing that needs to be done. Also the Decree 17/2019, of urgent measures against the housing emergency, which, as you know, was also the result of the work with the commission promoting the ILP 24/2015, and which, unfortunately, has been in good part for the Constitutional Court thanks, as always, to the good ways of the People's Party, which has this nice custom of resorting and using the courts to challenge what electorally does not win. We therefore have a decree again... but I will also tell them that they will not go out, either, with their own, because right now there is a firm commitment on the part of four parliamentary groups – the four parliamentary groups that supported this decree – to resubmit it in law proposal format making all the necessary effort at the legislative level because this is one of the first laws to be adopted in this legislature. And that's for sure in the next few days there'll be news, and from here on out, our group's commitment to pull it out. Counselor, the crisis... we've talked about it many times, haven't we? Diagnosis... I could devote minutes and time to it, to talking about the thousands and thousands of families who have lost their habitation; about the thousands and thousands of families who have to use infrastructure, overoccupation or occupation directly, because they have no housing alternative; that Catalonia continues to be a leader in the flood of denunciations, and that the Generality continues to do..., what? What's he doing with the denunciations? So the only answer we see the Generalitat does when there are charges is to send the Squad Mosos, send the Brimo and send the ARRO. This is the generality's answer, although I could do a lot of things, and I will now list it quickly. It could hold and create an anti-denomination unit at the Catalan level. With a mediation, negotiation and family support team, not when the denunciation comes up, at the door of the denunciation, sending the Mossos there, but long before, from the moment the problems of housing emergence are detected. And that the General could do. In fact, when there was the denunciation of the Bloc Llavors, we heard President Aragones say that the mediators of the Generality would increase to give answer in these situations of denunciation and conflict with the denunciations. We don't understand how it can increase something that doesn't exist; in any case, it has to be created. It has to be created, first, and it has to be set in motion, this anti-denomination unit at the Catalan level, because the presence of the Government of the Government of Catalonia before the victims of a denunciation does not only send the Mosso d'Esquadra, send Brimo, but also this accompanying to the families, which follows this approach. And that's one of the things that the Catalonian General could do when there are charges. What else could I do? It could complete its responsibility to lay floors to the months of emergence to lodge these families and give a housing alternative. This is not being done either, the Government of Catalonia. Although in the agreement of assumptions of the year passed with In Comú Pode, that in the assumptions of 2020, there was a plan of shock to put to zero the months of emergence, this has not been done. There's still a waiting list of about 1,500 families. Now we've asked him questions to finish the data. Therefore, the generality is not doing its job. Only in the case of Barcelona, if 60_percent of the resources that must be put in place as a member– 60_percent– of the Consortium for Habitating, approximately 1,400 habitats in the last four years, which should have been put in by the Generalitat, and has not been put in place. And that would certainly serve to give a cabuda to the close relatives of six hundred families who have to the list of emergency hope of the Government of Catalonia. But what could the Government of Catalonia do, too? So put resources on it, obviously. If we do not have resources, we will hardly be able to make housing policy. The Generalitat is now approximately 378_million euros, in housing policies, much less than the 450 that there was in 2010 – much less – money that is absolutely insufficient. And it's true that the agreements that have now been signed by Esquerra with the CUP as well as Esquerra with Juntes for Catalonia, so there is a compromise of a significant increase in resources, and we value this compromise as important. Even though there are differences, and I suppose that's what they've seen, too... : with the agreement with the UPC there are 1,000_million euros per year, with the agreement with Juntes per Catalunya is to reach 1,000_million to finish the legislature. It's a subtle difference, but there are a few million for mig, in this subtle difference. But it is that, even so, still making these figures, the assumption that the Government of Catalonia would have with these 1,000_millions..., would be to allocate the 3.1_percent of its assumption to housing policies; it would be the maximum, when the Barcelona Assembly, for example, is allocated to it only 8_percent. But it's not just that. It is certain that the recommendations of the report of the Labour, Economic and Social Council of Catalonia, from now on, of the month of May, have been read, right? , which have made a report and some recommendations are recommended to increase public expenditure on housing up to 1_percent of GDP. Now the very same resources..., the 1,000_millions, assuming that they would end up with these 1,000_millions, would only suppose a 0.4_per_cent of GDP; the 1_per_cent serien 2,224_millions of euros. We're a long way from what the CTESC recommends; very far, we're too late. And we're not very long and we're too late because it didn't happen and the investment didn't increase in the next few years the way it needed to be. What else could the Government of Catalonia do as housing policies? As you see, we are in an absolutely purposeful attitude. Approving the Sectoral Spatial Plan for Habitating, adopted from 2019. No one knows what's going on; one enters the web page..., later update, March 2019. No one knows what else has happened to the territorial area of housing, which is the main tool for planning and defining the model of housing in Catalonia: to know if there are more housing, where there are fewer, who are the tools, who are the instruments... So, all of this, completely stopped. To set aside the National Council for Habitat..., ai – sorry – the National Agreement for Habitating, which has also been voted in this Parliament several times, which yesterday the MP of the PSC remembered and which has not yet taken place. How can a model of housing policies be changed without broad consensus and broad agreement to do so? There are many instruments for which the Government of Catalonia could allocate more resources and make an effective policy. I will then make more proposals to his intervention. But above all, counselor, we believe that it is time for the frontal problem to be overcome, for resources to be allocated and for courageous policies to be made that are necessary. And, above all, it's time to decide which council will carry the housing policies. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.3.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Segovia. Then, to answer, the words of the Vice President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, Mr. Jordi Puigneró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.4.0	Okay. Thank you very much, President; thank you very much, Members and Members. Segovia, in the first place, I thank her, obviously, very much, which must correspond – I think – to this beginning of the legislature, on, obviously, eh? , housing policies will have an important role to play, as they have done..., gee, ever since I've been in politics, huh? Because housing is a right, a basic right. It's a social right, and therefore, I think we don't have to do..., well, it's a strategic issue and we don't have to do any policy – I think – of parties, but a country policy, huh? I, in this sense, this Vice-President, and, therefore, adviser responsible for territorial policies, therefore, will act with this attitude and with this willingness to agree in the field of housing policies. So let's start this new cycle with the wish that housing policy is not, as I said, a tool for political party politics, but a tool for political country politics, to strengthen social cohesion by strengthening a basic right, huh? , as basic as they can be, therefore, salvation, education or..., in other words, many other rights, including today's rights, such as the right to digital connectivity, which are instrumental in developing our country in its own years. All this, for that matter, wants a lot of action and I think I'm a little soft, huh? He wants a lot of agreement and collaboration between administrations and less party battles, often full of gestures and headlines. This government and this vice president in particular, we will work to have this collaborative context, because the challenges of the future that we have ahead in housing are ambitious and require the participation of all. If we go into detail, already, to concrete measures, let me begin, first of all, by talking about economic resources for housing policies, which I think is an essential part. A very important first step to being on condition to move forward on this line is to make presuppostarial commitments. As you know, the agreement signed between the two political formations that integrate the Government, Esquerra Republicana and Junts for Catalonia, establishes a gradual increase of the housing assumption up to 1,000_million euros at the end of this legislature. At this point I want to be very clear: there can be no policy of housing without money. We need more resources to ensure aid to prevent habitat loss; we need more resources to stimulate the promotion of protected habitat; we need more resources to adequately address hard residential exclusion risk cases; and we also need more resources to make a qualitative leap in the rehabilitation and energy efficiency of Catalonia's residential park. This is why I take advantage of this first question to ask his political formation which also helps us to get the coalition government of which you are a part in Madrid to do well and to abandon the endemic and inquisitive infra-financing of the State Housing Plan, which in the last few years, for which he does Catalonia, has meant a 50_per_cent breakdown. This point is key, because it has an impact on programs as strategic as helping to pay for the logger, which take almost one-third of the government's total housing budget and are linked to the financing that we are up in Madrid via the state plan. Therefore, a first mission of this Government, and especially with the political formation presented by this inquiry, is obviously to achieve this objective so necessary and so urgent. To begin with, we publicly assume the commitment to increase the budget up to EUR 1,000 million, but it is obvious that, to make it possible, we do not forget that, in the return that the State makes of the resources provided by the Catalans, the financing for the housing programmes is not forgotten so far. You made this initial approach, which we believe is basic to take the building dialog that we expect to keep with all the groups in this room, let me also enter to outline some of the main challenges that we have on the table. The first challenge – I think everyone should agree – is that of denunciation. This is obviously a social issue, and therefore needs to be at the forefront of housing policies. It has been pointed out, in this Chamber, that the problem of denunciations is especially difficult in Catalonia, on various occasions. It is true that we are in the upper strip of the denunciation ratio, between the seven-thousand that produced the year 2013 and the twelve-thousand of the year 2019, but it is also true that we have a much larger number of habitats in absolute terms than other areas, and therefore it is not entirely appropriate to compare with other communities that could be made, as communities like Murcia, Asturias or others. In any case, it is obvious that, beyond the analysis of the figures, in the next few years, it is very likely that it will increase as a result of the fact that in August the moratorium established in the framework of the regulations adopted around the state of alarm will fall. Therefore, we need to act even faster and more collaboratively, because the situation we are coming to, therefore, might not be optimistic in this specific sense of denunciation, and therefore we need to put it right as soon as possible. It is at this point where I place them also to you, as a group that are, also, very municipalist, to age because the joints, to all those where you have presence and have the opportunity to act politically..., so to get there there is municipal involvement for what it does to the deployment of the Reallotgem program. As you may know, this is a new program and ambitions that this year reserves 21_million euros for the Generality to pay the rent to the owner of the housing at market price with a minimum contract of five years in advance monthly instalments, on a one-time basis, and with guarantee of collection. It is a matter of ensuring that families who have seen each other find a new habitation, or that those who can be denuded are able to..., and therefore, with a total economic implication on the part of the Generality, can find this habitation. The gatherings in this program have an important role, which is to search for habitats, for which they receive an economic compensation from the Generality..., and therefore also emit the relevant social report on the situation of the family. Allow me also to introduce very briefly some other actions related to denunciations. The first is the working group on the right to housing, approved by the government yesterday. It's no coincidence that this government..., its first government agreement, the first government agreement, is a housing agreement. It is a working group that will pay special attention to the cross-cutting approach of the denunciations with the participation of the departments of the Presidency and the Vice-President and the departments of Interior, Justice and Social Rights, because this issue of housing is an integral issue and has to be addressed in its entirety. A denunciation, a denunciation, is the fault of a whole system. The second is the will also to close the protocol with the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, which has been appointed by the Department of Justice to know the planned charges beforehand. Therefore, two important actions for what he does to the denunciations. Another great challenge is what has to do with the public housing park. A public park that is insufficient, they must agree, but... well, we have to go ahead and get better in our own years. Steps have been taken in recent years, in later times, too, to reduce the historical shortage of public housing in Catalonia, as well as in the conjunction of the State, as a result of a public policy of housing historically massively centered, surely, on the protected housing of sale and little on the logger. Finally, I would like to respond to many of the questions, as I have only a short time left, and I will go forward on other issues. In the first place, also, the permanent qualification obtained with the Decree Law 17/2019, which is hardly necessary to make many floors of social logger if the qualification is not permanent. And this is an anomaly resolved in the previous parliamentary term in social housing, together with the fixing of the prices of the modules, the pre-payment protection measures, social housing promotions, or the financing lines of the ICF and the regulation of budget allocations. The failure of the public park has been a difficult reality to combat since the economic crisis of 2008, which has had a brutal impact on the construction sector and on the health of public finances in the following years that we are still ravaging and that the pandemic has in some way worsened. But, despite the difficult context, since the end of 2015 we have approved the decree that enables us to exercise the right to hold and withdraw on housing from mortgages. In just over five years the Generalitat has already acquired 3,177 habitats, for an import of 168_million euros, certainly with 184 habitats in the city of Barcelona. The government's commitment is to keep this bet for the tanteig with a half of five hundred habitats every year that allow us to increase the public park of the Generalitat during this legislature in two thousand more habitats. I do not want to fail to mention a later question about the expansion of the public park, because it is often oblivious that the policy of only being key to the execution of promotions. And at this point we can again claim that mobile gatherings exist only because the Generality and social housing promoters, whether they are entities or private, can boost our housing. It is not only possible to make habitation, and the soil, especially the large cities like Barcelona or the metropolitan area, is in the hands of the joints. Finally, we also have the challenge of managing European foundations in terms of rehabilitation and work promotion, which amount to 600_million euros in the next three years. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] In short, work has been done, more needs to be done, more needs to be done. And, therefore, I am also at the disposal of the whole chamber, because we understand that this is a very important challenge, a social emergency for our country and a challenge to which the Government of Catalonia, together with the different political groups, must give immediate response.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.5.0	Counselor, time is running out. Thank you. Now, to answer that, has the words of Congresswoman Susanna Segovia, for five-minute spaces.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.6.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, yes, there is much agreement: country policy – that's why we asked him to create the national agreement for housing – but also fact policy, not word policy and pilot policy outside. Because, as we are used to, you... are pilots out to the state, who have their responsibility and who have to do their job, and pilots out to the joints, who also have their responsibility. But it seems that you are oblivious to the fact that habitating competence is an autonomous competence, and that the main political actor in leading housing policies is the Government of the Government of Catalonia and, in concrete terms, its council, if it is that it is still in its council. For what he has said, we understand that he has; he has not just confirmed it at all, but we understand that you will continue to feel responsible for housing policies. As a matter of fact, he has not forgotten that this is the case; that it can also be, because, finally, that they have not managed to agree yet, therefore, for the time being it is up to him to take care of himself at the end of what he sees if someone else is in charge. It's not a partisan battle issue; it's that the presuppositional commitments you're making will require the support of this chamber. And he talked about the 1,000_million agreement there is, the government agreement with Juntes for Catalonia, but it's that the CUP companies, who have an inquiry right after, may not agree with that, because their agreement says something else. And it's a lot different than what the CUP Habitat Accord says than what the Juntes Accord says for Catalonia Habitat. What are we interested in knowing is what will be the model of housing policies: the agreement with the CUP or the agreement with Junts for Catalonia? Why are there significant differences, huh? : in focus, model and resources. The agreement of the UPC talks about incorporating five thousand annual habitats into the public park; the agreement with Junts per Catalunya talks about five thousand in a legislature. There are also many thousand different floors. Or else we should clear up a little where we're going. We believe that Incasolo must recover his role as promoter of the public housing of Catalonia, because he stopped doing so. It is that in three years, in four years, it has built 1,300, 1,400 floors to all Catalonia, and the Barcelona Assembly only in tea two_ thousand in march. I know they don't like them, comparisons, but it's not a partisan issue: it's a matter of institutions that think they're working and institutions that don't just believe they don't have resources and policies. We believe that the Incasól must be a public real estate, it must be a public real estate, it must move the soil, talking with the joints, signing agreements with the joints, resulting in the financing, speaking with private promoters to make initial construction, using 30_percent of the reserve of the soil to make habitat of official protection... There are many ways that it can do... The Incasól must become the leader of the policies of promotion of habitat of official protection in Catalonia, and is not aware of it. It's getting out of hand. I refer to the figures: 1,152 – it is that I have not yet gone a little further there – in four years. This is data from the Incasól web page, we're not inventing them. Do you think that 1,152 dwellings promoted for Incasòl in four years is a good xifra? There is also the number and retraction, obviously, but seven hundred floors plus 1,152..., seven hundred annually do not just give the figures that are being given so much to the Council of Labour, Economic and Social as they are giving the organizations or the one that says the same law of housing, which speaks of arriving at this 15_per_cent in 2027. 2027 is more than obvious we won't make it, huh? So, we're talking about infra-financing, but it's that the resources of the state pact with the current assumptions have practically increased by a 400_per_cent, also those of Catalonia. Therefore, resources are not replenished. European funds will come, which are for rehabilitation. They will also be important resources, because one of the lives is to rehabilitate infra-habitatage and invest... We will propose, and we have... We have been talking during the election campaign; we have a new law of barrels, green barrels on the program, but rehabilitation must also be conditioned. What cannot be done is that the rehabilitation of the resources of the European funds is used to increase speculation and why there are again benefits in the hands of great investors and great promoters who, as regards their rehabilitation, are remunerated from the European funds. These resources must be conditioned to yield containment policies, to stabilization policies in the loggers. They can't be resources that are free. Counselor, justice protocol. But the counselor we have of Justice is the author of the express denunciations. Or is it, really, how can we believe that there will be a willingness from the Department of Justice to curb misdemeanours and improve the mechanism? He hasn't told us if they're planning to bet on mediating and accompanying families who are feeling naked, because they always leave it in the hands of the gatherings, in the hands of the social services. You have the responsibility to provide a follow-up. Months of Emergence: Think about putting in the necessary resources so that there are no such waiting lists? Do you insist, as the competent administration in the housing policy, how many habitats do you think you are putting in order to put the table of emergence at zero, which is a compromise that you had with our group in the past legislature? I think we should try to stop working with the pilots outside and take responsibility. And, counselor, your advice, if you are left with housing, you have many responsibilities. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.7.0	To make the answer, the words of the Vice President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories are given.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.8.0	Yes, thank you, Congresswoman. Miri, I'm from the municipal world. I was the mayor of a municipality that remembered public housing during the decade from 2005 to 2015. I remember absolutely, don't I? It was the city that most populated the public ugly, and I was not the direct responsible, but one of the main drivers, like the mayor, of that city. I therefore believe that, when I speak of housing as a priority, I am in some way satisfied with the facts. And I also have to say that – I insist, huh? – you are part of a government in Madrid that has a minister who says that housing is a commodity. Therefore, it would also be good for you, as you also do at the Barcelona Assembly, to have an attitude there with your partners, in this sense, to hear that housing is a social right. And in any case, I also understand that one time it guarantees this social right, and therefore, we do not have an emergency situation as it may be at these times, obviously it is also a good market. But above all it's a social right, and therefore the order is this. Where you govern, your partners should also be clear about these priorities. Look, we're moving into a new legislature and the world is changing. Therefore, habitat policies also need to be understood from other perspectives. I agree very much with some of the questions that you have raised, the challenge that we have to make, that without money and without only it will be very difficult to make housing policies. But we also have to start thinking that this must be a country that is territorially balanced. And that means that we also have to help this splendour, that the massification of the population in the territory of Catalonia can also find solutions in other parts of the country. Even though it may seem like an idea that doesn't fit in with what has been done so far, we have to hear – I can't give you some examples – how depopulation today, thanks to certain actions, is allowing people to make a voluntary life option in other parts of the country, and therefore balance the country's population in a more sustainable way for everyone. This happens, for example, with what is meant by the opportunity of teletreball. Today, teletreball allows people to live in the towns of our country, and so we also give opportunities in this sense to the whole territory. And that's not a small thing. I want to talk, for example, about the case of Gosol. Gosol, three years ago, was about to close the school. Today Gosol has twenty-six children in school, and he has increased the census and mastery. And that's happening to all the municipalities I visit every week. I always ask the mayor who is the situation, in this case, of censuses and schools, because they are two clear indicators of arrangement in other points of the territory. Therefore, we also need to make policies to help in this sense. Here we also have the key, for example, the investments we make in connectivity. Connectivity, in this case, that allows teletreball. Allows a lot of people who have a job that doesn't need to physically go to a place, or that doesn't need, in this case, to be in a concrete physical environment to develop their activity, to plan this possibility. So, when we talk about housing policies, we need to talk about everything you have commented on – I agree, this must be one of the challenges that we have to tackle this legislature, which goes through more and more money, above all – but also, for example, to provide more infrastructure such as digital connectivity, which means optical fiber in the territory. Because this will also help in this objective, to make more families, than more citizens of Catalonia, can have a more life option beyond, in this case, the metropolitan area. So let's look at ourselves in globality. I'm willing to open the prism. Abraham Maslow said, in his famous pyramid, that after eating and drinking – having access to water and eating – the most necessary right of a human being is to have a place to live, a basement. Therefore, under this prism, under this will, they understand housing policy as a social right in the first place, we must place, in this sense, housing policies in this legislature. Mechanisms and tools, there are many. I only say that we do not give up our minds; that we do not, obviously, give up the issue of the soil, the issue of money, regulation and also – let's add it – to investments in other types of infrastructure, which will also allow this right to be guaranteed and make a country that is more territorially balanced in its own years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.9.0	After this inquiry, let's move to the 10th point of the order of the day, the inquiry to the Government on the situation of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, which is presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Interview with the Government on the situation of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation]] [[300-00002/13]] To make the presentation of the inquiry, Ms Anna Grau has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.10.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament... Well, my first session of control of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjans Corporation – from now on, "body" – was all an experience, you've been selling. As the deputy very recently, but as a journalist for many years, here and out of here, I fell my soul a little; the thing is definitely worse, much worse, than I thought. Mrs. Vilagrà, you promised us today an open, transparent, collaborative government, an intelligent administration. A lot of intelligence has to be, in effect, to draw the clear water from whom it leads to whom and who decides what. The person who intervened before I was clear who will make decisions. And it seems to me that it was yesterday that Mr. Illa, here himself, is telling himself that if the last decisions of communication of this government take you, they will be taken by the Lord Councillor of Economy, the Lord Giró, or the Vice President of the digital republic« xupa-xup, the Lord Puignero. The lack of transparency is especially bloody in areas such as the one we are dealing with today, the body. It is a fact that TV3 and Catalunya Radio are now a few media outlets, but above all, they are portrayed professionally and judicially for their systematic violations of the principles of political neutrality and informational objectivity. From the Collegiates of Journalists to the Supreme Court, passing through the Electoral Board and by Reporters Without Borders, tothom'nfaus creus, how to inform, and, above all, how to misinform here. Catalonia Radio and TV3 have renounced being the radio and television of everyone to hold on to an audience every minute, misinformed, "Jivaritized and intransigent, not to say narcotitized for a program that shows that propaganda is information, insult is humor and humor is a structure of state, as you would like, when not an ideological weapon of war against 74_percent of Catalans who have not voted independence at the last elections. What you've done is an authentic ethnic Neteja in the audience. From "Sue Ellen," you're a little girl – or a hanger – to "fucking Spain – sorry, president, it's a quote, huh? – this is the ideological evolution of TV3 from 1983 to now. When I commented on it, you passed on to Mr. Sanchis, director of TV3, he had the courage to tell me that he didn't know that TV3 had ever said "fucking Spain". Well, he's got to stick to the eye and a lot of bars to make a statement in his parliamentary office that looks like it. You just have to take a look at some other video, some other hemerotheque, to realize that « whore Spain is a regular war cry» – she lost, Madam President, she continues to feel a quote – from Jair Domínguez in the company of others, the same on Instagram as on Twitter and on the Bricoheros and Està programmes passing, from TV3, or in El Bunquer, from Catalunya Ràdio, already put. « Bitch Spain here, « bitch Spain there, smell that smell. And it's true – it's true – that every time we report these things, less of a public television than of a collegiate group, but of a collegiate group where bullying is practiced, without manners, eh? Against everyone who thinks, thinks or votes differently, they say to us: "Oh, but these things do not represent radio and public television, because all those who say and do these things are not personal from the house; they are external collaborators, hired, trained for freedom of expression. But it's seen that..., plus « whore Spain, I don't know if more freedom of expression, but more hidden. It is seen that drawing constitutions directly pushes the rate. With collaborators like that, who needs staff? It's just that that's kind of the point. How is it possible to have a template of thousands of workers, a pharaonic template, which will be worth 240_million euros a year of pressure, and there will be no beginning, that at every moment the Generality will have to go to grab the bag? Above all, without order or concert or control, because here or public contests to renew the ranks of the corporation neither contract program nor anything, only one more drilled that depend on the political mood of the moment. Look what I've got here. [[the speaker shows a full camera]] : a written question before the European Commission for the Euro MP for Ciutadans Jordi Cañas. Remember Jordi Cañas? So he thinks he doesn't forget them, huh? Remember, of you, day and night. Mr Cañas has asked the European Commission to investigate whether the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation – that is, the Catalan Government – has diverted funds from the covid, when the same president of the ‘body, Mrs Núria Llorach, admitted to selling past in commission to have earmarked money from the covid – Tatxan! – to pay Poland. I was there, and, believe me, it's not that he admitted it, it's that he assumed, as if spending money destined for the covid to pay Poland was the most management uncertainty that has seen the gods from the Catalan Bank. Certainly, since we are..., in that very commission Mr. Sanchis also warned me that, if I do not want to have a disgust, perhaps of penal consequences and all, better than I stopped asking and scraping for the strange, fuzzy, who knows if perverse relations between the dome of TV3 and the « body and producer of Mr. Jaume Roures, Mediapro, which also seems to have come out of the field covering the 400,000 Eurasses that cost his documentary lamp on the court, total, to tell us what we all knew, that at 26_percent of the cent of the Catalans have explained to them that Spanish justice is not a pit to Catalonia, and they went and believed it. But it's not even that bad. Look what other papers I've got here. [[the speaker shows a full camera]] : it is an admission that the directors of a Mediapro branch in the United States participated in bribes and crimes of organized crime in the FIFAgate escandol march. "A subsidiary is not the mother house," says Mr. Sanchis, "to justify that after pleading guilty to such things, Mediapro can still contract with TV3. It seems that what happens in Brooklyn is in Brooklyn and does not matter to Sant Joan Despí. But it turns out that, because the American escandal of the Mediapro subsidiary no longer existed, it had to be Mr. Tatxo Benet in person who came to sign on behalf of the company a full agreement – an admission of guilt–, pay a heavy fine and – attention – promise to be bound and pursue all the corrupt practice of his company for three years, three years that will be completed this July, the coming month. Couldn't you have waited until next month for TV3 to re-contract with Mediapro? There are no other television producers in this country with a better reputation, with more guarantees of exemplaryness, who can be tasked with doing things, don't we say half graella of the programming of Catalan public television? Do all the pasty always have to crush the same, insatiable as glops, and without even making the effort to take care of the forms and reputation? They're on. From bicoca to bicoca and I shoot because it touches me. Mirin, here I have another paper that is the result – I must say with joy – of a long-distance parliamentary complaint from Ciutan. Turns out the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjans Corporation has billed over the last four years for almost 150,000_euros – it's said aviat, huh? , 150.000_euros – in advertising to Platform for Language, the hyper-subsidized NGO of the Catalan language that almost takes all the resources of all the departments of the Generalitat in solitary – and not only of the Generalitat, because of the City of Barcelona and the Assembly also juice – for the promotion of the Catalan language: almost 1 million euros a year in public subsidies, for years and days. And they really don't understand what they're wearing out. So because it's spying in which language do the creatures speak to the collegiate's heart or intimidate the merchants who retrace their business in the castle? The truth is that the results account is only understood if circular economy criteria are applied: the Government hypersubsidizes the Language Platform and this evacues a good" peak of these subsidies to Catalonia Radio and TV3, which, as is known, loses publicity at large and never has enough. But it's all home. In short, if the Catalan public media are a huge journalistic and informative disappointment, a propaganda desert where the best Catalan journalists die of greed and thirst while the Jairs Domínguez, the Tonis Solers and the Jaumes Roures thrive, it turns out that from the point of view it's still worse: it's a black hole of mischievous and misguided resources you see where, who and why, you don't know if you're on TV3 or Ali Baba's grave. How's it going, that? So not talking about refounding while looking at another band, as it seems tempt to make the PSC of Mr. Salvador Illa; not repeating as a parrot every day that they want to close TV3, as do the lords of VOX, and not papant flies as – with due respect – has always made the PP. The Catalan public media need to be clean, they need to be disbanded, they need qualified people and compromises with the quality of information and programming, they need to raise the captives of the circular economy and put order to the house. And there will be no normal contents while there is no business function and no normal funding. Citizens have been biting stone for many years, reporting it, investigating it, working it, watching it, and, well, we'll follow it. And we ask for the contest of all the groups of this chamber, but especially of the groups of the government, so that we can do it together; so that we can do it together and give in this country the television and radio they deserve. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.11.0	Now you have the word, to answer, the Counsellor of the Presidency, Mrs. Laura Vilagrà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.12.0	Well, thank you, President. Congresswoman, let me tell you that it's about time that the bar of Tertullian is passed and the bar of Congresswoman is put. We are Members, soc will advise, and expect from us that we follow proposals; therefore, what we make proposals. I listened to him carefully, and in fact, my paper was blank: zero proposals. And so a modern speech was expected, and you made an ancient speech. In fact, it didn't surprise me, either, in the sense that you usually ask questions in this sense. In fact, it's the fifth question they've done respect in three years, and the more or less content seems to be. Councillor Budo and Councillor Turull also first appeared with an inquiry from Ciutadans, and it is also my case today; certainly, Councillor Turull, who was only eighty-five days ago, in charge, and who I was able to greet before yesterday to Lledoners, and who I hope was able to greet out, definitively free, and who ended with this disgrace. In any case, please reiterate that your speech today has been repeated. Certainly, even though they repeat the same messages continuously, none are written anymore, and this shows the little electoral support that you have and surely the little electoral support that your formation will have. But let me today, with my first intervention, do a little history too, so we'll know why we got here. In fact, the Audiovisual Mitjans Corporation, when it was created, was one of the main stories of the history of this country's self-government, of the history of the normalization of culture and language. In fact, it was unanimously approved year 83 in a law, one of the first laws. Now I don't know if I would have this unanimity, this creation, but in any case, during all these years of corporation... they have been under a great demand for, indeed, the compliment of their mission, which is nothing other than public service. And, in fact, the year 2007 was a law that laid down what were to be its inspiring principles, its lines of action in programming. Or... 2010 was approved the book of style, in which the guidelines for production are collected, for dissemination; also the main values that should have led it – in this case, democratic, civic, ethical, defence of human rights – and the principles of public service, of compromise with the country, of compromise with diversity, of quality of content, transparency and efficiency in management. In 2021, the objectives of enhancing culture, enhancing the language and momentum of the audiovisual industry were still in force. And the corporation has always been governed by criteria of professionalism, independence, and also need to adapt to the nine requests. And, therefore, we have been able to consolidate the language, the culture, the international projection and also the diversity of this to what you call it; in any case – and for us it is also very important – the presence of the media in the territory of the Catalan language, and, in this sense, a clear bet for reciprocity with the Islands and the Valencian country. And we understand that this was thanks to a model of reference, quality and innovation. And we've overtaken a lot of times, and we're over a lot of times, like radio, television and telecommunications monopolies; we have our operators and the new placards, the technological advances. And we are well aware that entertainment has changed, that the general public has some new ways of entertainment, and above all the youngest people and infants. And these are the big reps the corporation has. And, therefore, adapt us, because we need to look for the young and childish audience where it is, and it is not for television and linear radio. And, in this sense, to develop the audiovisual industry, while encouraging audiovisual productions in catalá, because catalá only has us. Therefore, promote the offer of content through social communication media, radio and digital television, internet, mobile telephony. And this is the big challenge, together with the Culture Advisor, that we have. And the governing bodies: effectively, we have some governing bodies. We have had independent governing bodies of the Government of the Generality, such as the Board of Directors, which has the status of strategy and management; the Board of Contingent and Programming Advisor, which does what it does for neutrality, for diversity; some external bodies, such as the ACC, which values the content of the programming, but also the suitability of the members of the Board of Governor. In any case, the performance of this public audiovisual communication service is subject to parliamentary scrutiny, and it is clear. You didn't do it yourself. In this sense, and in order to demonstrate that the Government does not actually have control over the communication media, it is the proper Parliament that is the guardian, to explain that, in fact, the non-legislative committee of control of the corporation has already met – in fact, on two occasions – more than the Government was not yet constituted. Therefore, this denotes separation. In this sense, we would do a weak favor if we were the government that controlled the communication media. That is, in a way, we would pervert this country's own democracy. And, besides, we still had another element, 2019, when we made the renewal of the Government Council more extensive. In this sense, we know that we have..., we have all folds, like parliament, dues to do. Maybe it's not his model, but ours is full freedom of press, which is a first-level democratic principle. And I'll talk to him about the issue of resources, the funding of the media corporation. Tendently, he wanted to explain that covid funds have been used to finance TV3 or TV3 programming. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I mean, the corporation, and that's totally fake. Obviously, they made money from the covid fund to protect our professionals and our professionals; I suppose we're all in agreement here. But, anyway, let's say, there is a government agreement – therefore, this is absolutely public – in which it is expressed that, for the sake of contingency, it is intended for precisely money to the corporation. And, therefore, they are not coveted funds, they are freely disposed funds that the Government has. And, in this sense, yes, actually, 1.5 million went to reverse the smaller ticket situation that the corporation held, like so many other private businesses that the government has been able to help – or others. In any case, public communication means are the guarantee of a window to culture, a window to art, music, information, and also a window to expressions and emotions in a country. And, in this sense, remember some successful experiences these past years. One of the most obvious public service shows is the TV3 marathon and its foundation, which, in fact, this year 30 years ago, and that's why I want to name it today. Because, moreover, this year will be dedicated to mental health, one of the priorities of this Government, for its dissemination, awareness, ability to gather funds for research, but also for the collaboration of 3_million Catalans and Catalans in each edition that are involved in all its activities. Without forgetting the important role of Club Super3 in the long history, which has caused many young and many adults to have after català, to become socialized, with this channel. But especially I want to highlight and value the information on public television and also radio media. In this sense, they are the most valued. They're a guarantee in front of the fake news alloy, in front of the multitude of undisputed information channels. And, therefore, I want to clearly highlight today the great task, the professionalism of these people who make up all these teams, and thank them for the task, especially in a difficult year that we have all suffered from the pandemic. And I ended up, but I want to talk about the future and the opportunities, which is what we need to do in this Parliament, give a look at where we want to go. I'm sure we'll agree that television and radio, public digital media, have a great opportunity before the absolutely capital changes we live in, the great globalization, before the giants like Google, like Amazon, since they can't give a proximity service. And we can do two things: we can give global information, but also local information; if they allow me to express it, be local. In this regard, I would like to place in place that the Government of Catalonia firmly believes in the public service that is giving and will donate the Audiovisual Media Corporation. But above all, we believe in our citizenry, a citizenry that is critical, that is intelligent, that has criteria at the time of approaching culture, at the time of approaching music, at the time of approaching art and, above all, at the time of approaching the way we inform ourselves. And, in this sense, to point out that, through the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinio, you somehow think you have the information because you belong, like all the parties, to the rector that the councilwoman..., you have information about raw data in which it is agreed that you are some of the media that have the most credibility before the city of Catalonia. Therefore, as I said, this government will always be at the service of the people, at the side of the people, but also at the side and supporting the public communication media of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.13.0	You have the word, to make the reply, Mrs. Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.14.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen... well, Mrs Vilagrà, I, unlike you, did take note of what I was saying. In fact, I have pointed out: « Error that errs, error that errs, error that errs, error that errs, Lledoners, error that errs, error that errs, error that errs... Let us go to Lledoners. All right. There is only one sentence that you said that struck me, that really struck me..., that's when you said: "Catalogue only has us. Lucky it's not like that, Mrs. Vilagrà. By luck the català does not only have you, and by luck the journalism in this country does not only have you. Aviados would be. Well, you can say mass, but that's exactly the opposite of what he said. Or go on, so good the government do not control the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. Both good TV3 and Catalunya Radio are not submissive to informational Stalinism and financial miscontrol. The absence of a program contract, which leaves it in the hands of the department's whim – we don't know what, because I insist on the lack of transparency: whether the one of Culture, the one of the Presidency, the one of the Vice Presidency or the one of not knowing what –..., I kept the professionals of the house, if they want to..., let's say, if they want to be well and they want to follow it, they feel it, in a state, obviously, depending – on dependence. But I'll also tell him that he didn't expect anything else, I mean, he didn't expect anything else from you. Because, in fact, my..., I formally ask you because you have the right to give your face to the government, but I was actually better suited to other groups. You see, many years ago, we've set ourselves up in a dynamic of your power, you do what you want with the corporation, and from the opposition, so, more or less, it's written, it's forbidden... Sometimes an election is done, it is said that it will do one thing and then another is done. As Mr. Carrizosa, at the investiture debate, reminded the Socialist Party; so yes, yes, I very much presume to want to re-found TV3, but it turns out that when 'opportunity is heard, it gives control without looking – control without looking – to Republican Left or to Junts per Catalunya, after the day. It has prevented Article 155 from even prying on TV3, but, of course, not to look for an alternative control formula, but simply because there is no such thing, and because it can be said with that joy in its parliament that TV3's information is a leader in credibility. They are neither in credibility nor in audience. There came a time when they had a 40_per_cent audience, and now, Mrs. Vilagrà, there is no one to look at who wants to have dinner in pau. But we don't want to shut down TV3, we don't want to shut down TV3, we want to open it, we want to run the air... Mr. Carrizosa already gave them some input into the investment debate: we want to modernize the template, we want to reduce the template, we want to modernize it... Then TV3 returns to the exit box, undo all the things that have been done badly at this time and, well, start again, let's say, a new pact for communication in Catalonia. We, from Ciutadans, believe that it should start with the theme of the rooms, with the theme of the transparency of management. And we will begin to boost a battery of measures that curb these promiscuities in our exaggerated opinion that for a moment recall the rotating doors. As now the revolving door that the year 2012 brought Mònica Terribas to jump in three months – in three – to direct TV3 to be the delegate adviser of the daily Ara, founded in great measure thanks to the contributions of Toni Soler, Albert Om and other external producers hypercontracted for TV3 and paid for gold. Everybody can hire who they want, huh? , I would only miss, but any director of TV3, of Catalonia Radio or of the "body you hire from a certain amount of money determined from the companies would have to have a term of care before going to work there, by decency. Do we own it for three years, as the American justice asked Mr. Tatxo Benet not to carry the prosecution of the crimes of the Mediapro branch to the United States until the end? That's where I leave it. All this would not happen if there was a code of conduct, of good practice, of honor, which now makes it wrong to say whether the "body has tea and is gone or not bothered or to hold it". As I said the other day to the control committee, it is absurd that a third party in Catalonia Radio, in order to be a third party, must prove that it is with history, with social security, that the bank account it collects is its own, and that in order to invoice mega-millionaire productions, you must not prove or believe anything at all. Well, I'd say, "Make 'em look good. I know it won't be looked at; therefore, I ask all the other groups, singularly, starting with the Socialist Group, that please help us fix this..., to convert this state structure into a powerful communication structure that boosts the audiovisual sector and informs and entertains everyone. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.15.0	Next, has the word Laura Vilagrà, the adviser of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.16.0	Thank you, Madam President. My honourable Member... well, we obviously have different visions of the focus on public communication media, but I think we agree that television and radio are generally two in the highest representation and exemplary of democracy, freedom, and we think that public television and radio in this country are also there. And it's no accident, therefore, the positive appreciation that Catalonia's citizenry has made of communication media every year. And I'll give you data, I'll give you examples that aren't exactly, say, governmental, but totally external. In fact, the chain is the most valued in the world. And, in fact, we do this through the GFK company, which is a German multinational market research and analysis company that produces quality ratings reports from viewers and viewers all over the world; but in any case, ours is valued, and at these times we have an 8 and a half percent appreciation. In fact, they value television references such as the English BBC, German public television, Belgian, Dutch public television, etc., and more televisions that are going, let's say, making them value, monitor for this system. Therefore, in the case of TV3 it is indisputable that we have eleven years of leadership of audience, beyond the government that there is, beyond the social, political situation. And TV3_has ended this month as the audience leader, and it's already forty-six, months after that. It's a record of unbroken leadership of a chain. In fact, TV3 continues to be the leader of the first-time band and has led the hearing divided into thirty-one days of May. And of the gathering of the most visible programs of the day, it has been on thirty occasions, and always – always, always – in the edition of the telenews. Menys one day, which is the day of the Women's Football Champions Final, because there was, if you remember, a shorter telenews; that day not, to be precise. But in any case, I will also talk to you about the public finance model that we have – in this case, with publicity – and it is a model similar to that of European public television, also in the Spanish State, following examples like the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Germany, Sweden, Holland, Denmark, and we could give so many other examples. Therefore, the cost of the television channels of the Television of Catalonia – therefore, TV3, 33, 3/24, Esport3, Super3, 3XL, Catalunya Radio, Catalunya Music, iCat fm, Catalunya Information – is thirty-five euros annually per city. We could compare it with any other country of reference to see that we are far from European standards, surely from the standards we would require. But in any case, they also do numbers thinking that they cost us a subscription to pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go. I'll give you some examples. Taking into account that the final chapter of Troms Game cost 13_million euros or that the annual budget of Netflix is 13,000_million euros, that a chapter of Merli cost 85,000_euro is laudable. It's laudable, because it's a series that's had a spectacular audience success all over the world, as well as America's Llatina. They're very well-inverted money. And in any case, surely from public television we can donate a programming that would never fit in the private sphere. So, we understand that work is nothing. But in any case, we do want to defend strongly from the government that precisely what we want is to strengthen the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans as a public service audiovisual communication of the country and also to promote an audiovisual communication model. I will give you some examples: a direction of the professional corporation, with sufficient and stable funding, staff provided, rejoined, diverse, a simple structure. And a big challenge: a decisive stake in the content of children and young people, which is an example in the use of language, but also the conversion of linear television to all digital audiovisual platforms. Reptiles are naughty. In fact, in the agreement of governability between the two groups formed by the Government we had two key points, which were, of a band, to promote a plan of reactivation of the audiovisual sector both in the production of contents as in the technological areas, infrastructures and audiovisual services, but also promote the coordination of the audiovisual sector of Catalonia to the Valencian country and the Balearic Islands. We are very aware that we have many reptes, that we have a lot of work, but we also have many wills to do it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.17.0	Thank you very much. [[Question to the Government on the situation of children's education]] [[300-00003/13]] Let's go to the next question, corresponding to the 11th point of the order of the day. It is an inquiry to the Government on the situation of children's education, presented by the Joint Parliamentary Group. And you have the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mrs. Eva Parera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.18.0	Well, good morning to everyone. Thank you very much, President. I want to bring a theme into this room today that I think everyone says every time it's very important, but in the end I always feel the last of priorities, badly. We have listened to them on more than one occasion to defend the import of zero-stage schooling at three years, and also to express the will to ease their gratuitousness and universality. And we agree with these two statements. I think we all share that the zero-to-three-year educational stage is key to the child's development of mobility, cognition, emotional, social and affection. And, moreover, it contributes to social cohesion, encourages the incorporation of the woman into the labour market, helps family reconciliation and, above all, generates occupation. For all that, I mean, believe me, because, if we don't, we have a problem. And we believe that we are going to age, first of all, for the preservation of the educational network we have in Catalonia, and, second of all, to establish a strategic plan for this stage, which will concretely lead to gratuitousness, as we will achieve universalization and, above all, as we define the financing model that preserves its sustainability not only from the public, but from the public and also from the private network that currently exists. But the reality, unfortunately, gives me the impression that it is another. You don't believe the mixed educational model we have in Catalonia; you offer private initiative centers to absorb them, convert them to the public, instead of helping them to survive, and, what's harder, celebrate it openly. We have recently seen it with three schools that have gone to the public network in Barcelona. In fact, it gives me the impression that you want to end the private educational initiative. Private children's homes are also part of the education system and are also an essential service. And that's what you, from the government, have to defend. Private centres represent 40_percent of the offer to Catalonia – 40_percent of the offer to Catalonia. Only in Barcelona, more than half of the under-schooled children go to private children – more than half. And this network of private centers is mainly made up of autonomes, micro-pimes, peppers that have a super-limited financial economic capacity and that have been going through a very difficult situation during the pandemic. The lack of support and recognition of public administrations for private children is sectarian and immoral. They're obvious in debates, in decision making, and they're even obvious in statistics. You're serious. The dialog is almost non-existent. And this will continue until the band ideologies are left behind and an educated pact is put in place for the little childhood that you have with everyone. The employers of private children's homes have long reported that they are in a very critical economic situation, and no one listens to them – no one. It is a sector that has been underfunded historically and has now suffered from the economic crisis of the coronavirus with a huge reduction in ration and demand. Moreover, they suffer the effects of the drastic fall of birth – it makes sense that we do not apply policies to encourage birth in Catalonia. 10_percent of the private children's homes have already closed, forced by the economic impact of the covid. The help offered to private children's homes today is in debt even more. That's not helping; that's choking them, and that'll make them disappear. To finish adopting it, they must live with establishments that live on the fringe of the law, without any type of homologation or regulation, but that act as a school in Bressol and that generate confusion between the citizenry. The employers of the sector have also long demanded a single educational network of the stage from zero to three years. Children's homes have made hands and hands because their spaces are a safe space, where children can have quality education, and have made great efforts to ensure safety and sanitation measures during this pandemic, lest they continue to provide a service that is essential. And it's a comparative weight, not regulating the appearance of illegal spaces. It is necessary and indispensable to have a single regulation that is the same for everyone. We said before that the intention of the Department of Education is to advance towards free and universal education from zero to three years, and the first measure they plan to achieve it is to break the stage of the first childhood cycle and integrate P2 into the schools. We believe that it is very difficult that the impact of this decision on the sector as a whole has not been analysed. He didn't talk to the private centers either. I remind you that they represent the 40_per_cent of the offer to Catalonia. But what seems even more worrying to us is that they do not take into account pedagogical assumptions or the needs of children and their families, at the time of making this decision. It is only based on an economic criteria to occupy places in places on sous. Experts tell us that the two years are a critical point in the development of the infant that will mark its later evolution. For this reason, it is essential that the attention offered in this key period includes the first three years of the first cycle, in order to influence its subsequent development in a consistent manner. Moreover, the fact of integrating P2 into the schools puts the entire educational network from zero to three at risk. Llars of private infants would disappear. Maybe it's what they want; we don't know, we'll see. After the first two years of application of the new model and with even more reduced rates, children's homes are no longer economically sustainable, and, in the same way, they would no longer feel a good part of public schools. This must be complemented by the exclusion of the private sector by the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training in the processing of the new curriculum of the stage, obliving its extended trajectory and accumulated experience and relegating it to a residual intervention. This lack of recognition is unfortunately confirmed by the discriminatory treatment given to this educational stage with both LOE and LOMLOE. Reversing inequalities in schooling for young children is possible if real supply and demand are analysed to the territories, by cities, by districts, by barrels, but real ones, including private centres, and allocating resources and investments to areas that are not actually covered or need more equipment. I assure you – I assure you – that it will be much more economical for the same Administration to compute its private schools. Do you know the real situation of the zero-three education sector, beyond private centres? Do they really know who the faults are and who the needies are, who the offer and the demand are, calculating the private schools too? The impact of the pandemic on the sector as a whole is not known, nor how it has affected the demographic gap, as it is intended to reverse this situation, which measures will be implemented, which public policies will take to promote birth, which will help families and centres provide, as will the integration of P2 into the sector as a whole. That's a big surprise, today. In short, we don't know which strategy to follow to preserve the network and enhance the accessibility of all children to schooling in the first stage. To analyze which is the best way to make possible the gratuity of the zero-three-year stage. We agree, there are various possibilities: direct subsidies to families, subsidies to the total number of children, or including the concertation of all the first cycle of children's education – why not? But, above all, what it is to work hand in hand with the whole sector and not to expel them from private, as is being done today. The network of educational centres from zero to three years authorized existing in Catalonia is enough to give response to the new needs. And we must be able to take advantage of this wealth and work together, without sectarianism and without discriminating a sector – the private – which is also working for our infants, which is complementing the public offer and which is also giving an essential service, such as the education of these infants from zero to three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.19.0	Thank you very much. Next, the words of the Education Advisor, Mr. Josep González Cambray, to make his answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.20.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... Mrs. Parera, I will respond accurately to everything you have made reference to me in your intervention, but allow 'but before, in this first inquiry as an Education Advisor, the moment when education is found in Catalonia. We finish an unimaginable course, very difficult and marked for the pandemic; a course that is the most different course than we have ever experienced. At a time of uncertainty and collectivity, we took the option of opening the educational centers, because there was no alternative to opening the schools. We started the one-hundred_per_cent face course and finished the one-hundred_per_cent face course, and that didn't happen to most countries around us. In Catalonia we have had open schools and secure schools all the days of school. The schools, the educational centers, have not acted as amplifiers of the virus. At the height of the pandemic, October 30, 95 percent of students went to school that day. And, therefore, at this beginning, as I did yesterday in the oral response, I want to thank the entire educational community for its ability to adapt before the adverse context we have just experienced. And it has been so because, before the difficulties, we have joined forces. And let me do the different thanks to the Department of Health, to the direct staff, to the teachers, to the teachers, to all the professionals who enter an educational center: administration staff and you serve, clean, beggars, monitors, families, students and gatherings. Now we can say that the course of the covid has been an example of shared and collective success, and that we don't have to be proud as the Catalan education system, we don't have to be proud as the country. The pandemic is clearly not over, and, in view of the coming course... yesterday precisely published to the DOGC the school calendar, which will begin the next course on September 13th. The centres have rejected, in view of the coming course, an action plan to organize themselves and to plan the next course 21-22. Depending on the situation of the pandemic and depending on the vaccination schedule, let's see, with the Health Department, how we can make these measures more flexible at the educational centres for the education service. We'll keep for the year the resources we've had this year for the covid. We'll keep the eight-thousand additional professionals, continue with the Pla de más de las opportunidades educativas per la alumnat vulnerable and deploy the second phase of the Pla d'éducation digital. And, listen, we need to go thinking about what the Catalan school after the covid will look like, and I'm convinced we're not going back to the school we had before the covid. And to achieve different results we have to undertake different policies. Education, like life, is constantly evolving and changing. That is why, when the pandemic passes, we need to take a step forward to push a new stage in the Catalan education system, learning from everything we've experienced this year of pandemic, listening to all the collections that have participated in this successful collection that was talking to them. We will continue to deploy many of the policies that we have undertaken these past three years of the legislature with Councillor Bargalló, and learn from the year of the pandemic to improve and transform the Catalan education system with tangible results, alongside teachers and teachers and the service of the student. And, in this sense, first-cycle childhood education is key. Mrs. Parera commented very well: it is a fundamental element of the education system, and it is so much so that there is a departure to the government agreement. We're betting on child education, and we've proven it. Just over a year ago, they approved the first assumptions since 2016. They are the first accounts of the Generality that include the recovery of the contribution to zero-three education and the return commitment of the debt. The first time, since the 2012-13 course, that the Government of the Generalitat reverses this detail, which has a direct impact on the equal opportunities of all the children of the education system. And, therefore, the past course, course 19-20, the Department of Education subsidized the joints with 1,300_euros per seat occupied, which was a match of about 70_million euros. The law accompanying the presuppositions of 2020 sets out the timetable and the amounts of subsidy for the next years, in which there is also part of the return of the department for the years that the department has not participated in this funding. This current course we will subsidise with EUR 1,425 per seat occupied and EUR 1,600 per seats occupied from course 22-23 to course 28-29. With this payment schedule and the modules that affect the return of the financing, they recognize all the municipalities in Catalonia, regardless of whether there has been an administrative or judicial complaint for their payment. And we still want to go a step further – they were also commenting on Mrs. Parera. We want to go a step further, and we are determined to work on the medium term and progressively to achieve the balanced territorial freeness and offer of education from zero to three, as reflected in the parliamentary government agreement. Schooling at this stage is an opportunity for the integral development of children, which also promotes equal opportunities and the reconciliation of work and family life. We know that families at risk of exclusion or economic difficulties caused by the current situation of the pandemic and economic crises have been the first to disenrol their infants in the zero-three stage, because they do not consider themselves universal and free. And, therefore, this is a challenge for this government that begins now. We need to focus on this and put in the resources needed to respond to these infants. And we also have to work to ensure a sufficient and quality offer, which integrates the public initiative – the joint ventures, in this case, are the ones that have the skills in the zero-three offer – and the social and private initiative, and they are this coverage around and in the municipalities with a lack of available places at school. He made reference... I answer them because he made reference, huh? , there is not much to see, but he has made reference to the change of ownership and integration of public centers into the Education Department network. The integration of other centres into the network of the Department of Education..., was a decree of May 2019 to give answer to the many requests we had for concerted centres and municipal centres that wanted to integrate into the network of the Department of Education. And, therefore, no change of title proceedings shall begin until the holder so requests. Therefore, when the holder so requests, we assess each situation, assess the need for schooling, the state of the building and the economic impact of the measure, and make decisions. So he swept it off. In any case, I'm just passing the subject because he's swept it through the middle and has nothing to do with what we're talking to. What we do is provide us with a legal tool and a legal umbrella to make this change of title possible, whenever the process is initiated with a request from the holder. It's one more tool we have in the education system. For what makes the first cycle of children's schools and schools bressol, in Catalonia this course has 63,342 infants, 1,611 centers that teach the first cycle. Therefore, 1,611 schools in Bressol and llars of children: 653 are privately owned; 42, of the Department of Education, and 916, municipally owned. It is obvious that there is a very high percentage of children of private initiative, and we are fully aware of the difficulties they are going through. And for that, in our willingness to move towards zero-three freeness, we will take the sector very much into account and take decisions from the dialog. In this sense, in the 3_millions of euro band with the department each year subsidizing children's places of social initiatives, and they are aware of the difficulty that the pandemic has entailed for these centers, an extraordinary subsidy was approved this year in order to mitigate the effects of the closing of the llars because of the covid. We have 568 requests for private children and social initiative, among which an additional EUR 8,600,000 have been distributed to compensate for these effects for the closure of the past and this course. Therefore, we must move towards zero-three gratuity. We'll talk to everyone. We will take into account the public offer and, obviously, the current private offer. And we can't lose sight of the fact that zero-three is a municipal competence, and so we have to do this with and from the joints, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.21.0	Thank you very much. You have now the reply of Mrs Parera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.22.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, I see a very timid message of support and recollection to the private. I would like to begin by saying that this government cannot place the medals of the opening of the centres after the pandemic, of the schools. They're gonna have to take the initiative. Concerted and private centres were completely abandoned, with contradictory and changing instructions every week, until they decided to pull for the right – pull for the right – and they were the ones who took the lead in opening the centers and making them secure. You've been closing the schools for a whole quarter when you didn't want to. Other countries of our turn, and here they were locked up for a quarter. It could have ended the course face-to-face. The sector demanded that the course be completed face-to-face, and no one dared to do so. And it's proven that it doesn't fit, that the choices are safe. The public bressols were able to open to the estiu; the privatides, no. Why, these criteria? Why, this difference? Why does it stop, to the private, to open to the estuary, when the publics are open? What's the difference? Ideológica, because it's that, if not, I don't understand. So, here's a sectarian criteria. They say to us: "The presuppost contemplates the return of the debt. It's just that I'd miss it. It would only be lacking, that the debt is not returned; but, what are we talking about? And the assumptions that you have approved do not contemplate it, the economic situation so terrible that these schools have suffered with the subsequent locks. Because they approve of assumptions that then..., they bring forward assumptions that know we're confined, without thinking what it's going to be economically confined. It's the same, the important thing was to approve the assumptions. Or so, I'm not, that's what I'm talking about. It's not worth it. They say to us: "No, it is the choices that they ask of us... He says: "You are in fear. You're afraid in the barricade. I give an example of which is the will of this government and which is the ideology of this government. They tell us: « It is that the schools..., « Many concerted schools want to integrate into the public system. Some may, but not all of them. It's not true. Not all of them. You're bound to. They get a decree telling them to sub-finance them systematically, failing the law, and when they are economically offended they say: "Now you have to fix that scale. And when they can't fix that scale because it's underfunded economically because of these assumptions, because of the government, of many assumptions followed and of many governments of the same political color, it turns out that they say: "Oh, so I'm already coming and I'm fixing it, but you have to make it public. That's coercion, I'm sorry. That's cheating. That's a right-hand bust. It's not true. They don't give them alternative solutions. Why don't they offer them economic help to fix that scale? [[Pause.]] They don't. Then arrive, disembark, change the whole school, remove the name..., if, moreover, it has the name of a Catholic saint no longer..., well, we don't even imagine it, like the elimination, and the public fan. And then they say, "No, they wanted to integrate into the system. It's not true. So the only thing we ask here is that there is a clear position of defence of the existing education system. And if you want to change it and convert it all to the public, then come, say, explain it to us and seek consensus to do it, but face-to-face discovery. It is not worth coming here to say: "No, no, we defend the mixed education system that exists with the concertate... but, at the time of truth, it is not true, because the concertate is underfunded, because the private bressols are underfunded and because the private bressols have conditions that the public does not have. I just need to be clear at this point, and unfortunately I didn't get it. I'm sure I'm happy to say you're willing to talk to everyone. So I take the word for it, and then, counselor. And let's hope that his arrival changed some of the policies that this government has had so far in the field of education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.23.0	The word has the advisor of Education, Mr. Josep González Cambray, to make the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.24.0	Madam Parera, I see that the inaccuracies and falsehoods have been guarded for this second turn of intervention. Esconti'm, Catalunya opened the schools on the first day that it was able to open them. When we were in confinement, we couldn't open the schools, because there was a state of alarm. So, when you make statements, you don't make them from misinformation. Catalonia has opened the schools since the first day it was able to open them. At June we finished the course, and we opened them this year every day of the school year. I'm not going to get into the debate, because I think everyone can do the information and they can do their elements of judgment depending on what he's been living and what he's been living, and not so much because he's been repeating the same thing all the time he'll end up feeling a little bit more true than he was before—it won't end up feeling true. The educational centres, 5,430 educational centres, respecting the shared leadership– because we believe in it–, respecting the autonomy of the center– because we believe in it–, respecting that the best decisions can be taken from the proximity, they have had the follow-up of the Department of Education and the Department of Health, in this case, to the hundred_per_cent of the first day, in order to make the decisions the day we were to take them and the day we could take them, with the information that we had at that time. So, enough; enough to pull back and make statements that they don't fit what really happened. The subject you say, that public and private schools could open or not open in July, is not true either. If by reason of pandemic they could open public bressol schools, they could also open private bressol schools. Now, it was a decision of the private bressol schools, whether to open or not to open, depending on the name of the students who were there. We believe that, among other things, because the zero-three stage is a very important stage for training, for growing up and for the development of infants. We believe that because it's an object of this government's agreement, of the investment agreement. We will advance towards the gratuitousness and universality of zero-three. And that's what we'll do, as it can't be any other way, defining dialog with everyone, talking to the sector. We're not the ones we're exclosing. Let us neither expel nor expel anyone. We will schedule, find the necessary funding and define the best model and method to get these grants and aids. And, obviously, as before, with the assemblies, and taking into account the current educational offer of children's homes, both public and private places. And allow me, finally, to respond to another statement you made. We defend the Catalan education system. The Catalan education system has a public and concerted ownership network. Now, we won't allow any kind of discrimination at our educational centres. We will not allow any kind of segregation at our educational centres. Therefore, with public funds we can only finance centres that do the same educational and social function. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.25.0	Thank you very much. [[Question to the Government on the settlement of the energy transition objectives set out in Law 16/2017, of the climate change]] [[300-00004/13]] Let's get to the point of the order of the day, which is the question to the government about the absolutation of the energy transition targets set by the Law 16/2017, of the climate change. It is presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, and to make the presentation of the inquiry has the word of Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.26.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... ma'am will advise, my first words, as it can't be in any other way, are to give her the commendation to repeat in the government and that you have accumulated to your council the policies of climate action. I also have to say that it is obvious that the President of the Generality has all the powers to organize the Government as he sees fit. We have enjoyed ourselves more than we have had a climate and environmental advice, not grouped with other skills, but we will listen to your appearance at the corresponding committee to explain the government program, and from here we will appreciate it. No one can escape that, because of the knowledge we have of the scientific community, and which contributes to it, the evolution in denial of the climate change is much more worrying than was thought at the Paris summit. So much so that the European Union has granted to increase the reduction of gases with expected winternacle effects from now until 2030. My parliamentary group notes with satisfaction that President Biden and his secretary of Energy, Mrs Jennifer Granholm, are again encapsulating the impulse of net energies and we are committed internationally in this respect. In Spain, President Sánchez and Vice President Ribera are, from our point of view, giving a decisive boost to the policies of economic and social interest, which will help, in a sense of doubt, the modernization of our economy and its competitiveness. Catalonia is not alien to the effects of climate change. In fact, its effects have already been noted in some episodes that have had unpleasant consequences in our country. The year 2007 was the end of the Catalan climate change law, and the question we can ask ourselves, which we are formulating ourselves, is what happened, right? From now on. From our point of view, erotic policies. We're still waiting, counsel – and I know it's not because of you, but if it's because of the government you were part of – the carbon assumptions, which we're going to have to discuss in this Parliament to define the efforts to reduce emissions by sectors. I would be grateful if you would define it before the Congress of Deputies, which is just two weeks ago, three weeks ago, which approved the climate change law at the level of the entire Spanish State. In the past, the Council of Ministers' agreements of this week, aimed at detailing certain benefits of energy-sector entrepreneurs – which is called ‘fallen benefits of the cell – are in the direction that my parliamentary group had asked for. But we will return, at the end of this inquiry, to energy issues. Professor Martín Vide, who was the person who coordinated the climate change reports in Catalonia, warned us a few months ago, just before we were confined, that fighting climate change is a matter of salvation, but it is also an economic issue. And we tell them: we can't waste time, the impacts are already on them. We must be aware, the joint venture of society, parliamentary groups, but also the Government, of the magnitude of the transformations required by the Paris Accord, transformations that will need to be made without leaving anyone behind. I mean, we have to make a fair transition, but at the end of the day we have to make necessary transformations, for us and especially for our daughters and our children and our nets and our nets. As the Secretary of Energy of the Government of the United States says, the cost of not doing anything is too big – the cost of not doing anything is too big. The transition was closely linked to the decarbonization of the economy, and the decarbonization of the economy was closely linked to efficiency in the energy transition. The energy transition, for our parliamentary group, is the shift lever of the product model. And the energy transition we have to do, like it or not, here and there, with net energies, with renewable energies. And in Catalonia, counsel, I think we can agree here... in the solution I don't know anymore, but here we can agree that we are carrying an injustifiable delay. In fact, we are in Spain and the European Union implementing renewables; I do not say so, said the International Energy Agency. Politically correct speeches in many, counselor. Everyone agrees with renewables and energy transition, but basically in Catalonia, we subscribe to the Nimby effect, and that is very difficult to move forward. We are concerned, I say, about the moratorium that you want to impose, and which can ultimately place us at the top of the whole of Europe. Catalonia can lead, huh? , the energy transition in Spain, because we have opportunities to generate renewable energy, because we have tradition and energy culture, because we have research centers and universities at the forefront, because we have business fabric willing to invest in it. And we have an obligation to push forward, because if we don't, we can lose a good part of our product fabric, not just energy, but industrial. And they're talking about data. I went to Icaen, which must be the source of reference to our country. And what does the Icaen say? So the Icaen tells us that the gross electricity production in Catalonia in the year 2020_was 45,000 gigawatts, and we were in a year of pandemic. And this year, 2020, in these 45,000 gigawatts and exhausts that were produced, nuclear energy has been the main energy source for electricity production in Catalonia. In fact, it represents almost 55_percent of total production. If we add other non-net energies – that's to say, combined cycles, cogeneration... –, we find that the contribution has been 80_per_cent. On the other hand, hydropower and wind energy have been the main renewable energy sources for electricity production in Catalonia: a 12_per_cent– the first – and a 5.8 – the second –, that is, practically a 20_per_cent, if we add some other sources of production. Let 'em know that the embassements have been so many years since they've been made. I mean, what have we brought in net energies beyond these years of democracy, the last two years? So look, a 5.8_per_cent, a 6_per_cent; an 8_per_cent, if we add some of the other elements. And another fact: if we analyze the contribution of electricity consumed in Catalonia, 70_per_cent comes from nuclear production. And the nuclear power plants located in Catalonia..., the year 2035 the last reactor will shut down. I suppose you must agree... at least we believe that we must dispense with nuclear energy in Catalonia and Spain. If we do this, we will have to replace all these needs that the country has with renewable energies. That's what we're defending my parliamentary group, isn't it? And substitution, because energy is a right, must be done to guarantee the sub-administration and guarantee the quality of the sub-administration. We are concerned, I repeat, about the reservations made by Esquerra Republicana and some of its parliamentary partners towards the deployment of renewable energies. We note ideological preventions, preventions that do not take us from our point of view; rather, they take us to put up with the country. He will not find us in my parliamentary group in the theories of decline. We are not in favour of repealing Decree Law 17/2019, as requested. We can accompany them, if they want, in the modification of some aspects that clarify and specify in a clearer and more objective way the possible locations. Let 'em have another thing. If we were able – which is also very much to say – to install at all the teulades, terraces of Catalonia solar photovoltaic plates, we would only be able to satisfy, advise, a quarter of the energy needs of Catalonia. He'll explain to me how you think we need to start solving the equation. To make a rich and full Catalonia, as our anthem says, they will be able to find us and forge broad consensuss, to my parliamentary group; if what they claim is to make a small Catalonia, that will end its well-being and that of its people, they will tend to us in front. I would like to say this again: in order to guarantee these 45,000 gigawatts that our citizens and citizens need, the companies we have in the country, which we do not want to lose, it is essential to face up to the fact that we replace nuclear energy and the net energies with renewable energy. The government must not be a Nimby government; it must do pedagogy, as do the governments of the European Union, as do the governments of the United States and the Xina. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.27.0	The words of the Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda, Mrs Teresa Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.28.0	Thank you. Well, good morning to everyone and everyone. Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... Mr Terrades, it is extremely undeniable that we find ourselves in a profound global ecological crisis; it would only be lacking, it is extremely undeniable. We have to say it, and we have to say it without any kind of pal·liatiu. We don't have more time to lose. We have to assume that. I, at the same time, must also be able to respond to the multiple global reptes that are being planted. And in this, the ecological transition has an indisputable, essential role. Catalonia has great climate reptiles. Yesterday – I remember – I said it in this room, huh? : country challenges; obviously, also challenges like society. And from the advice I have the honour to encapsulate, the advice of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda, but also from the entire government of the country, because this is an extremely cross-cutting issue. And what we're gonna do is not take them away; on the contrary, huh? We want to give him an answer, because more than that to manage – we have also said it on various occasions – what we want, a sense of doubt, is to transform. The objective, therefore, is clear, and it is shared. It's not new. In fact, when this Parliament approved, as you reminded us, the year 2017, the law of climate change, it was clear who these three objectives were. And you, somehow, also told us, huh? : to decarbonize our lives and reduce polluting gases, to become a leading country in the investigation and application of the new technologies to reduce Catalonia's energy dependence on external energy resources, and – three – to strengthen and expand the strategies and plans that have been developed over the past few years. Look, it's obvious that you need to react, feel no doubt. And reacting to climate change means that we have to move towards an energy transition that is territorially capillary, democratic, also transparent and, more importantly, efficient. On the road to climate neutrality as it was very late in 2050, we know that Catalonia is far from fulfilling renewable energy requirements, huh? , stipulated by the European Union and established by our own law of climate change, which provides that electricity consumption in our country comes in a 50_per_cent, year 2030, and in a hundred_per_cent, year 2050, of renewable sources. We're not very far away. We know that it is not only a matter of replacing the rawest energy sources with renewable energies, but also, as I said before, it is a matter of transforming a model – transforming a model – based on the great energy oligopolises into the hands of the fiercest capitalism. We want, therefore, a model that guarantees the participation of the citizenry. And I've got another day and I've got it straight. And not only from the citizenry, but also from small and medium-sized enterprises in all energy markets, becoming key strategic agents in both generation and storage, also in marketing and in all markets of flexibility essential for the integration of the energies they occupy, of renewable energies. From the energy companies that hold the different energy oligopolises, both electric and gas or oil companies, they will ask us to guarantee technological neutrality. But when we do this, we will tell you that we will prioritize the neutrality of participating agents in all energy markets. Therefore, it is necessary to put the citizenry and the environmental welfare as motors of energy transition and of an economy, sense of doubt, net. For all this, from this department we want, in the first place, to work for the full energy sovereignty of Catalonia. Second place, bet on research and energy innovation. Also work to replace the production of nuclear energy by net and, obviously, sustainable energy sources. Fourth, encourage communities – for us, very important, also – local energy and adapt the current formula to the new needs generated by the climate crisis. And five, work for the recovery of the management and ownership of hydroelectric power plants. And it is in this context, precisely, that it is obvious that we cannot close the eyes nor can we hold hands folded before the opposition, the opposition in capitals, which has generated in some parts of the territory. And let me hide: it's not weird, absolutely, huh? , that, without prior information and without certain planning, the territory is reactive. I'd just miss it. I, in particular, would be very concerned that the quiet territories, because I would like to say that we do not have a critical society and a society that wants to participate, too, in those decisions of its government. We are clear that the energy transition cannot be done with the territory against, we have clarity, and that we will only advance if we all move in the same direction. Mr Terrades, at these moments we have detected that it does not work in the current model of deployment of renewables: it remains short in the democratization and socialization of the production of energy, does not give answer to all the needs and allows those who most benefit follow the usual ones – the great oligopolises and their economic interests. But also, if I may say so clearly, we know that in energy transition issues we are late. You remembered us, and it's obvious. Very late; not late, very late. And, therefore, we don't want to hang on for five minutes. We'll keep up with the accelerator. Understand what has failed to advance faster towards an objective that we all share: improve, sense of doubt, gear and perfect the tool to reach the target faster and better. That's the point. We all share this goal, I want to think, but we need to review how to get to 2030 in the best conditions. And that balance we also want to do with the territory. Actually, we'll do it with the territory. They can't do it any other way. We are those who do not want to talk about the implementation of renewables if it is not of the hands of the citizens and of the citizens; if it is not of the hands of the territory, it has no sense. We are the ones who want to make the same table all the actors involved. With the current system..., it is obvious that it generates antiquities – I don't discover anything at all – when it doesn't work with the affected municipalities or when they know, say, by chance. We therefore want to guarantee the maximum participation of the affected territory. We want to decide between all precisely because energy transition is the responsibility of all and everyone. The gatherings, the local councils, the congresses also have a lot to say. For example, with local initiatives that can, of course, empower local energy communities. We have already done so in the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, and we will continue to do so. We're talking about Republican governance, huh? Suppose the involvement of all actors. It's not an invention. I don't know if it's much or little modern, but in any case, it worked for us, and a lot. And I could give you examples, but I'd run out of time. We fully assume our role. We take the lead, but we need all of us to succeed. That's the key: stay successful. That's what we need. And what they ask of them, as well as Members and Members in this chamber, is this, that they help us, that we make efforts. We're going to need everyone's involvement, obviously. Let the local world not only say: "Not here. We need the local world to say: "Here, yes. I think this is definitely the key. The municipalities must also begin their own transition. I repeat, this is the key. In short, one of the objectives that was also collected to the law of climate change was the participation of the territory. Miri, Mr. Terrades, we're in a tough time. You said that, didn't you? , and I embrace his words in this sense: that urgently mitigate the climate change by means of a just energy transition. I, in this context, we cannot afford a rule that has no clear criteria. Thus, clear, transparent and unarbitrary criteria must also be drawn from this reflection. We have criteria that take into account planning, planning and the diversity of agents; landscape integration – very important –; the protection of valuable natural spaces, which are those that help us preserve biodiversity; cultural and memory heritage spaces; protecting high-value agricultural, timber and forestry spaces, according to the law of agricultural spaces, which are essential for food sovereignty – I remember that in this country we have a way of eating five times a day, huh? ; therefore, those who produce food are cabdals–, which prioritize and promote local initiative. And that means that, from this department, we commit ourselves, as it cannot otherwise be, to intensify the Catalan contribution to the fight against climate change. We want a Catalonia with a sustainable, innovative and comprehensive environmental model. In fact, I remember we were pioneers in the introduction of renewable energies in the 1980s, huh? The first aerogenerator in the state territory went to Vilopriu in this case, didn't he? We want to be capdavanters again, but we also want to do it in an orderly way. As a society and country, we have climate, environmental, challenges that cannot be expected. I'm not going to take them away, I repeat, but we need everyone and everyone to get to the goal we want to achieve. We want to make it out of the hands of the administrations and we want to make it out of the hands of the territories. And this must and this responsibility are to change, sense of doubt, the current model and walk towards a product model, I repeat it, sustainable and responsible consumption, and drive this energy transition towards the 100_per_cent renewable energies, free of oligopolises and, obviously, also of economic interests. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.29.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. To make the reply, has the word Mr. Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.30.0	Counsel, yesterday the president, when presenting his government, was talking to us about the green revolution. I say to him: "So let's do it. Fem-ho, but not at the expense of shutting down the country. Because, look, what we can't do is go into contradiction. The government cannot contradict the defence of electric mobility – that we also defend – the electrification of public transport – that we will again propose in the motion that we present – the location of a power plant..., the defense of a green hydrogen production plant and, after that, curbing the deployment of renewable energies, because the green hydrogen plant I do not know how to do it, if it is not with renewable energies – is necessary, it is essential. We closed the previous legislature precisely with an inquiry into the same matter, which gave place to the approval of a young man. We have begun the first question that my group also raises with these issues, to make it clear to everyone that it is a crucial, strategic issue of the country in which we would try to agree with the government. We'll be back to propose, in the run-up to fifteen days from now, the creation of an energy agency in Catalonia, with the capacity to invest. If so many oligopolises do for us, then I put a challenge to them: that the assumption of the Generalitat is that there are resources to invest, eh? , to help local communities invest in renewable energy. We will also propose to you, as we proposed to you now six months ago or seven months ago, the creation of a public company to manage the hydroelectric power plants that we have to recover once the term of its concession has expired. He's weirded me out, hasn't he? You were part of the government that approved..., that brought this chamber and that we approved all parliamentary groups, except for the Popular Unity Candidacy, Decree Law 16/2019, which has caused that after two years in the sector in Catalonia there are, therefore, many proposals. I'm not gonna explain to her what in private I had to feel, huh? As I said in my parliamentary group, some of your colleagues, when we proposed to introduce some amendments to this law, which is as much as the law. I've already said, we certainly need to need some things for what he does to locations, and we're already offering him our cooperation. No derogation or moratorium, as some of its members ask; yes some modifications to clarify the issues. Because, look, in order to face up to the ingenious challenges we have, if we do not want to – that we Socialists and Unites for Progress, already say yes – from nuclear energy to our country and also..., because that's not what anyone has said, but the combined cycle power stations that emit gases with winternacle effects, also here in 2030, and above all with the prospect and timing of 2050, will have to go sour, if we want to complete the objectives of the European Union for the reduction of gases with winternacle effects that the climate change law says, and the Spanish law still is a darker hair than the Catalan one. I am telling you that we will have to make great economic efforts; that we will need everything to guarantee the energy sub-administration of this country, with a guarantee of sub-administration and with a guarantee of quality. Because quality is an essential tool or vector for the competitiveness of the industries of our country, which we currently have and which we want to achieve from the point of view, also from innovation, in which our economy has to make a much more powerful reversal. Guaranteeing these 45,000 gigawatts that need at these times our economy and the people who live in this country needs strenuous efforts. We're gonna need everything, Counselor. Everything. And what do I mean? So that we need citizen-based, community-based or cooperative-based projects, also energy self-consumption, but we also need big wind and photovoltaic parks. Who do you think this isn't going to be wrong, it's helping or it's going to help put up with the country. We'll need everything, counselor; if not, with the country we won't get out of it. We need, I repeat, a proactive government. Catalonia can't afford to have a Nimby government. Thank you very much, Members of Parliament. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.31.0	It has the word, in the turn of reply, the advisor of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda, Mrs Teresa Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.32.0	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Terrades. Counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies... To see, I must have explained very badly, Mr Terrades, but I'll be back – I'll be back. That is to say, you say: "Some of your partners ask for a derogation. Sure. But it's not my partners or my partners who ask for it; it's the territory, it's the country. I mean, we have to complete some goals with which all of us are absolutely in agreement, I'd just miss it. And I've said it since the first moment: with the sisena leaving; with the sisena, because – you too have falsified it – so man, we're going or we've gone a little bit. Now, let's go: unless we're all in line, this sisena march won't give its fruits, of course. It's impossible, it's absolutely impossible. Also, some thought about what you told me, huh? Beyond this astronomical delay, that's obvious. The one I'm worried about is that I'm going to resuffer every two for three. And we'll soak up every one of them for three, it's obvious. Because if we don't do things with the consent of the territory, we'll soak up every two by three. What do you mean we take a moment, plan and listen? Listen to me, that doesn't mean eternity, not much less. It's just that we couldn't afford this luxury, not much less. I told him before, and I seem to have detailed it – obviously, with the time he had, and certainly with great trets – which was where we had detected that it did not work out from this decree. Jo, it's true that he was part of the former government, with a lot of honor and a lot of pride. And it is obvious that there, with the responsibilities that corresponded to me at that time as the agricultural councillor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, we had – in fact, we have – a person delegated to the ministry, a person who defended one of the things that I do not know if it was well or badly solved – in a beginning was not well resolved, after we solved it – the criteria respect the agricultural space and, above all, the aspects that converge on the food of the country. Of course we were there, and we fought and defended this. Now my responsibility is another, it's to pull forward, it's to pull forward this transition. But I also say: we want to start well. And we will do so, Mr. Terrades, because I can't really hear you doing things without the consent of the territory. It cannot be that a person, that a city of this country, that has a cell or that has a winery, realizes that there, from among its strains, there will be three mills; that it will become known by chance. What the mayor of any of the municipalities... a servant has been mayor, and here we also have mayors and mayors... escorts, municipal politics is hard, it's difficult, and the work of a mayor is primordial, very important. You must be the first to know what's going on in your territory. And that means we'll all have to get involved. I believe that the key – I said it before – is to achieve that in this country the territory – and understand" the territory in the broadest sense of the word – ends up saying: "Here, yes. Because, in this way, yes. And we're all in charge. Because, listen, of all the mobilizations in this country – and there are a few, not to mention many – I didn't hear them say they're not going to make the transition. On the contrary – on the contrary –; all. And if there's anyone who doesn't, we'll have to explain what this is about and what we need to achieve, which are the goals. Now, said that, from the hand; from the hand and planning. And this is the intention of this counselor, this is the intention of this department. We'll do different things than how they've done so far. That's it. And I will make it clear: our job is to solve problems, not to create them, Mr Terrades. Our function... Because that's what politics is about: not to create problems; to solve them, to move forward, to have solutions. And in this we are, in the search for this consensus obviously necessary to press the accelerator, as I said. And that you don't misinterpret: to press the accelerator with sisena – that so far you don't make me say with which march they have gone – of renewables, without donating the skeleton..., I repeat, so important is one thing like the other. And you will say: "It is impossible. It's not true, it's impossible; it's possible, because that's why we did it in the other department. And that may be doing the policy of once co-managed, well done and taking into account the territory, not giving the island to the territory. We have some goals that we need to complete: 2035, shut down nuclear; 2050, renewable cent_percent. I, listen to me, Catalonia can be rich, it can be full – that it is –, green, it is well assured, but always at the side of the people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.33.0	Let us move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government on the policy to put an end to the illegal occupation of housing, presented by the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Question to the Government on policy to prevent illegal occupation of housing]] [[300-00007/13]] And, to make the presentation of the inquiry, has the word the deputy Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.34.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, and before I began my speech, Mr Elena, I wanted to condemn, on behalf of my parliamentary group, categorically, as the President has done, the murder of this woman of Porqueres at the allegedly hands of her partner. We strongly condemn him. And we also want to condemn the murder of a four-year-old girl found dead in Sant Joan Despí, allegedly at the hands of her mother, this past Monday afternoon. We also want to have a meaningful memory for this poor creature, and maybe I could also have this Parliament. [[Some applause.]] Catalonia is today, Mr. Elena, the paradise of the Okupas in Spain. And this is not a campaign slogan, this is a reality. Catalonia leads the state ranking of complaints of illegal occupation. And it does not say VOX, says the private real estate sector practically in its entirety in a communiqué of March this year, in which they textually say – and I open quotes – « that the problem is due to the promotion of illegal occupation by some parties and to the greater permissivity of the administrations in Catalonia in the face of the difficulty of housing families – and close quotes. Catalonia, as I say, is today sadly the paradise of illegal occupation. Fixed in this news from the past 26: « The occupations rise a 66_per_cent in Catalonia and fall a 20_per_cent in Madrid. According to the statistics of the Secretariat of State for Security, complaints of illegal occupation in Spain in 2020 amounted to 14,675. In Catalonia alone there were 6,647 occupations– that is, 45,2_per_cent of the total of Spain –, followed very far from Andalusia, with 2,372, and Madrid, with 1,316. In other words, Catalonia alone has more occupations than Andalusia and Madrid together, almost double. With this data I could practically lower myself from the atril, because it is a data that is shameful and that should make them reflect, blush and put on their batteries. Complaints of illegal occupations in Catalonia have grown by 66_per_cent over five years, from 3,950 in 2015 to more than 6,600 in 2020. And these data show that you are, by action or omission, accomplices to the occupation mafias, as the chairman of our parliamentary group denounced last week at a press conference. Mr Councillor, in Catalonia we have a very serious problem with illegal occupation, and it is a daily problem for Catalans, whom you have abandoned. The Government of the Generalitat must change its course clearly, because the situation is critical and is due to its inoperability, its ineffectiveness and the lack of political will to end this scourge. The government pact with the CUP's anti-system is a true declaration of intent: they defend a speech of tolerance, when not favourable, to illegal occupation, as it happens in the City Hall of Barcelona with the mayor Mrs. Colau, who has defended on numerous occasions the mafias of the occupation, reaching the point that in buildings of municipal public ownership there are courses on how to occupy. And this doesn't embarrass you? Illegal occupation is not a right, it is a crime, and it has become an illegal business managed by mafia plots that live at the expense of needy families who cheat by offering non-existent rights to occupy homes for money. Illegal occupation is one of the most serious problems facing Catalonia, a phenomenon that degrades neighborhoods, attracts criminals and favors drug trafficking with narcopies. And there is a very important conceptual leap between not evicting the person who cannot pay a rent and not evicting the okupa, and the left and separatism have thrown themselves into this leap without parachute. The Generalitat cannot maintain its impassiveness, and less to promote the serious damage that this scourge is causing to individuals and communities of neighbours. Because, look, when an okupa gets into a flat, not only is the problem for the owner, who takes about a period of two years – I tell you from experience, I have been in the administration of justice for ten years – in being able to recover his home, he has to continue paying the light, the gas, and then he has to pay the reparation many times for the damage when he recovers the home. And there is also a serious problem for the communities of residents of the property that affects their security, with illegal connections of light, gas – a real bomb – at their rest... Look, I – and this is a small anecdote – when I was in Tarragona, on the top..., a lady came out of a community and said to me: "Miri, I have voted all my life Republican Left, but I will vote for you, because I can't do it anymore – I can't do it anymore. It was undone; it had been ukupased into its community and it was absolutely undone. And it also affects the health of the community. And it also devalues, on the other hand, the owner's own home, because who is going to buy a flat in an occupied community? You're right, aren't you? The poor farm managers bring them and wish them to try to defend the rights of their neighbours. And, look, I'm going to explain to you in three points... I know I only have ten_minutes, which is a complex problem, but I'm going to try to give you three axes graphically. On the one hand, the slogans in favour of illegal occupation must be put an end to this sense of impunity that the Okupas have and that has been promoted from official institutions. Okupas have that feeling that nothing's going to happen to them. The Generalitat should have flagged the complaint filed with the prosecution by the private sector against the book of occupation, allegedly disseminated on social networks by the youth organization Ras. This website explains what tools are needed to force a door, to make electrical supply connections, to manipulate counters. And Arran, the puppies of the CUP, also has his own occupation manual, where they advise how to choose the house, how to mock the police, how to change locks or how to pinch light and water. These are real activists and criminals of illegal occupation who need to be prosecuted and illegalized, and you put yourself on the profile. Secondly, we must end with legislation favourable to illegal occupation, in Spain and Catalonia, which has promoted left and separatism. In particular, in Catalonia, Decree Law 17/19 of 23 December of urgent measures to improve access to housing, validated by this Parliament and which the Constitutional Court has laid down, obliged certain foreclosures to offer a social rent, among others, to those who had illegally occupied a home. This is barbarity, it is the first time that it is recognized in a Catalan law and the rights of the Okupas are protected. And that is very serious, it creates legal insecurity, it violates constitutional rights and it does not solve the problem of the shortage of social housing; moreover, it aggravates it. Because how many times have I seen in my court vulnerable families who had been assigned a home and who have not been able to enter it because they had been put in the okupas. There are many evictions that the Catalan agency of l'habitatge has to intervene to be able to recover floors of official protection, social floors for vulnerable families. Look, even the Guarantee Council itself, in relation to this decree law, issued an opinion in which it considered the decree unconstitutional by arbitrary and irrational. And now they are given a new opportunity to address occupation, on the one hand, and situations of vulnerability in access to housing with effective measures that respect the constitutional framework. Take this opportunity. And look, Mr Councillor, thirdly and most importantly: effective housing policies must be made, more budgetary resources must be provided to address the lack of housing for vulnerable people at risk of residential exclusion. Because in this we all agree, and the first, those of VOX. But it is not at the expense of violating the property rights of individuals. An administration incapable of defending private property is a failed administration, and it is a grave irresponsibility that our political class transfers to individuals, whoever they are, the obligation to provide housing solutions to people without resources. And that obligation is of the Generalitat, it is not of the individuals. There is a need to increase the public park of social and protected housing in ownership and rental, and the housing policy of the Generalitat has been virtually non-existent. By 2020, 141,000 people had registered as applicants for an official protection housing, and the Catalan agency of l'habitatge awarded 983 for rent, 769 for the public park and 214 for the assigned park. These are data from the memory of the Catalan housing agency of 2020. And also in Catalonia there is a very low percentage of social housing: around a 2_per_cent; very far from Holland, with a 30, or France, with a 16,8_per_cent. These are welfare states that protect their citizens. This is about allocating resources to what really matters. It's up to you to eliminate superfluous spending. Make sure that, with VOX, the institutions..., in the institutions we will work tirelessly to end this scourge and the impunity of the criminals and stop leading the national occupation ranquin to which we have dragged their complicity with the criminals and the mafias of the occupation. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.35.0	Next, you have the word to answer the Interior Counselor, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.36.0	President, I would like to begin by condemning the crime of male violence that took place this night, showing solidarity and affection around the victim, expressing with total strength the government's commitment in the fight against this scourge, which is a terrible reality that afflicts our society, and the insurmountable compromise with eradicating it. And, in this sense, our commitment to leave us - there's the hair. Naturally, in this context, it is not the time to enter into discussions and debates about which political positions each of us defends in this Parliament, just out of respect for the victim, his background and his family. Housing question. I honestly think that to address a debate of these characteristics you can see where each focus the problem, right? And I think you're targeting her with an objective. And the goal is to create a psychosis, one by one, a feeling of an extraordinary problem that affects our society in a general way and to blur what is the real problem that is suffering, where it is. And it's obvious that there's a problem... that there may be derivative problems, character consequences... that are linked to security; but the background problem and the real problem is not another one. I think you tend to create problems, to create problems, to draw problems that don't exist as you plant them to give real solutions that we don't need and that just generate even greater weight in the problems that you claim to exist. They tend to create these problems with the vocation normally to stigmatize, which is a practice that seems to us to have very often, and to generate fear, because I hate that they justify their political proposals. There's a problem related to... And that, let's think about it, I think they do it with general character in masses of things – in masses of things. They tend to secretate a problem, they tend to secrete an idea, they tend to secrete a concept or even a whole institution; they twist it, twist it, stuff it with lies and their gaze; they take it, they drive everyone out of that idea, and then even pull that idea against the others. I've done a lot of things. I do it with coexistence; I do it with the family; I do it with the feeling of belonging; I do it even in religious beliefs. And they do it in something that I'm especially concerned about, like the responsible I'm taking over from the Interior Council: with the security issues. You have an idea of security and what the government's obligation to security is to many of the sixties, don't you? Very old. And today security is many things – many –; from the perspective of the government, very many; from the perspective of society, even more, and from the perspective of the Council of the Interior, vastly different from what you have. Because today's security – and the Interior Council – is also the support of the transit agents to the citizen; it is also the mediating that they do so many places every day; it is also the pedagogy that is done to the schools in so many and so many things – with the new violins, with the questions of gender, with bullying, with so many initiatives that they do in this land–; it is also the investigation of organized crime – yes, yes, also in the themes of housing there is organized crime; and so much! So much for it! –; also on the streets helping the citizens, the traders, in life, because it is a peaceful and friendly life for our cities and our commercial streets, and also naturally using force, when necessary, to guarantee the rights and freedoms of the citizens. Security too, let's claim it, is the work done by the rural agents to preserve the territory, or the work done by the firefighters every day to guarantee the..., attend to the fires, rescuing people from traffic accidents or helping in the lives of their families at home, or Civil Protection, with the engineered engineer they have done all this time – during all this time of pandemic – to protect us and to help us pass this calvary that we have experienced. Yes, in the housing issue I think they have an overly linked focus, absolutely linked to security issues. And that's not it. The problem of housing is a serious problem, and it is a social problem. And it is a problem that can be addressed in many areas and not only in the security field. He's made a set of statements that they're certainly not. The administrations do not promote, the public administrations do not promote employment – the public administrations do not promote employment – the public administrations that try, when they are well governed and when they orient their policies in an appropriate way, are that the people have a ‘worthy living'. And this has to be our goal, and this is the goal of this government. And against them, if I may, lies that I think you..., or false or captivating orientations that you say in this Parliament, I think you need to say dice to put things together. And I'll tell some of them. Miri, 99 percent of occupations are empty floors. I say for references, permanently, to violence. 97_percent of the occupations did not have any situation linked to the violence. Eighty-two per cent of the floors occupied are of great tenors; just from which you get the data, from these great tenors. It is surprising, to me, that they are precisely the great owners, that they are one of the main ones responsible for the problem of housing that we have. It's obvious who she represents. It is obvious what references you have to address and focus on the issue of housing. We have 27,500 real estate empts in Catalonia – 27,500 real estate empts in Catalonia – of great tenors. 70_percent of people who have occupied families, mostly, and have previously requested and received reports that have believed the need for a social piss. There is no problem of housing linked only to a problem of security and violence; it is a deeply social problem; it is a social problem, which needs to be approached from this perspective. And you, as a whole, try to derive it, try to focus it, try to focus it only from the perspective of security, to generate just by, to generate just insecurity. That's our look. This is our perspective on what is the problem of housing from the look of the Interior Department. It is a social problem that can be addressed from a social perspective, providing resources and providing alternatives to the thousands of people who have a housing problem, to which it can give an answer. And, therefore, I encourage them to give..., and to look at it and not focus it from the perspective of security, which from this point of view is anecdotal. And, if I may – and finally – if there is any problem from the perspective of security that can preserve is precisely the mafias that create difficulties and that use people to do..., and that are at the service of the great masters. There is – there is – a problem in this sense, and this is what we need to analyze from the perspective of security. I insist: let's look at it; let's really look at the social problem of the foundations that exist in this country; let's look at the data objectively; let's not just look at the data of the most powerful, because at the end these respond to the interests of who they answer, that it's not precisely the people who need social housing and that it's basically the people who create in our country a difficult problem of housing for so many people who need housing in our country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.37.0	Then there is the word, in his reply, the deputy Mr Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.38.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Elena, " lie... what happens, that the 6,647 complaints of illegal occupation, that we are the community with the most complaints of illegal occupation, are invented by people? « Lies, you say, when you say that we do not lead the ranquin of illegal occupation. I have not heard you say a single word about the illegal occupation in your intervention. All are grandiloquencies, all are phrases made, common places. What about the occupation manuals? Doesn't that create a security problem? What about homeowner communities? Is there no safety problem? It's just that I'd like you to come one day to my court. It's just that I'd sit you down and take you to see some eviction, if there's no safety problem, when you see tears and pain. In VOX we strongly defend the right to private property. And I haven't heard you say it, as an Interior Counselor. I'd like the Generalitat to say she's going to defend private property rights. Because there is no society to be built unless it is with legal certainty, private property, individual freedom and social market economy. And in VOX, we defend that right, as I say. And we defend the right of vulnerable families, of course, and of young people and vulnerable people to have access to decent housing, as I said in the other intervention. Look, you... with the big forks. The big forks is a concept... an arbitrary definition too. It is true, in Spanish law, « fork, « great fork is a person who has ten floors. Perhaps some CUP Member has a similar percentage. [[Rialles.]] So it could be a rather arbitrary definition. And in any case, you don't have to criminalize them, they have a property right just like any other. The obligation of the Administration is not to delegate to individuals the obligation of the Administration itself to provide housing solutions to individuals. Don't charge that responsibility to individuals. And, look, the big forks... financial institutions have given up 4,313 homes in 2020 to increase the public housing park in Catalonia. They're taking his side. And of course they have to do much more. And it's your job to foster public-private collaboration, the right of the Generalitat's tanteo and retraction of all those floors. But it is a responsibility of the Generalitat, do not charge it to private individuals. Look, secondly, support for the most vulnerable, of course. President Aragonès has announced that he will set up a working group to guarantee the right to housing. Hey, I've been hearing this for years. But I see that lists of officially protected housing applicants and occupation statistics are growing. Make him look at it. And, on the other hand, point 3. Yesterday you spoke, and today you have told us again – which seems to be a word you like – that there is no need to stigmatize. You're the first ones to stigmatize. First of all, more than 200,000 Catalans who voted for us, huh? , with that anti-democratic cord that imposes on us those of VOX. And then I'd ask you not to stigmatize the word "discharge, huh? Congress passed Act No. 5/2018, reforming the Civil Procedure Act, so-called "express eviction", to combat precisely the phenomenon of occupation. And I'll tell you what evictions I've seen in my courtroom. Look, I'm gonna say it. A marriage of elders – at the counter, with tears in their eyes – to those who occupy a house that they have for rent; with the rent of that house they helped a unemployed child with two children, that is, two grandchildren of the plaintiffs. A Mercadona worker who separates and can't go back to her singles apartment because she's busy; she's been at a friend's house for two years. An older lady from the Bonavista neighborhood is going to operate on John XXIII, and when the hospital admission ends she returns home and has her occupied. These are not security issues, these are invented allegations, these are big forks. Please take care of the Catalans, I want these people to feel that they have the Councillor at their side, and at once fight the scourge of illegal occupation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.39.0	To make the reply has the word the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.40.0	President... so yes, I've talked about stigmas and I'll follow it up. Because precisely stigmatizing is one of the fundamental principles of violence, because it is a way to justify it implicitly. To cancel the other, to leave it in a raccoon, to signify it, precisely this is what generates violence. And this is done and many sectors of our society suffer: the women, in good measure; the people migrated, and so many people of our society. And it is due to this Parliament and a government to work to combat stigma. And it's the responsibility of politics to do pedagogy. So I understand politics. And, therefore, yes, I will continue to speak of stigma. Because I'm very worried. Because it's just one of the things our society has, because it's what causes many more. I insist, you have the look you have – in particular you and your group, I understand – is a look from the perspective of the great tenors. All the data he gave me makes reference to them, it's his data. Even you've justified big divestitures because they don't know how many floors to the administrations in a benevolent way, have you? Listen, I've talked about the thousands of floors in this country that are of great tenors. And you've told me about specific cases that exist that need to be fought and fought. But I also want to refer to objective data: 99,9_per_cent– of the administrations – of the occupations are on floors on which no one lived, on which there was no one, and 82_per_cent of the occupations are just on floors of great tenors. And you cannot have the same respect for the floors of the great tenors that respect the floors of which you make reference, naturally. And you make a capma, because defense of the same way one thing and another. The data are the ones I exposed to him. We can keep talking about it – naturally, we will do it in this Parliament – but we will do it from the look, yes, also from the tears and from what these tears suppose. The tears are from the people who are sometimes deboned, who are often deboned of floors that are owned – and are empty – of great tenors, and who have got them in a situation that happened these past few years in the Spanish State really remarkable; very remarkable respect for how these floors have come to be owned by the banks. Flats that people have lost for abusive mortgages, for a crisis situation, that have ended up in the ownership of banks and have ended up in the ownership of big investors, that are today the great owners of our cities on the floors, and that after they take the people..., this, yes, this one that sees the tear and that has lost all the possibilities of having a dignified life because it has no place to reside. This is the people we're working for. I am sure we will be very wrong, but I have no doubt, neither this Parliament nor this country, that our gaze will be placed not in the great tenors, but precisely in these people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.41.0	Let's move on to the 14th item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government on the economic situation, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites pour Avançar. [[Question to the Government on the economic situation]] [[300-00005/13]] It has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy lady Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.42.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselors, deputies and deputies. Good morning, Counselor Giró, and welcome to politics. Yesterday the president of my group wished them luck and uncertainty in this new task. I also wish you luck and uncertainty in this new stage that begins, in a phonenal consulting; the Economics and History consulting is a very important consulting, especially for the responsibilities you have. I'd like to quote five that for us they're very uplifting. One is the elaboration, design and coordination of assumptions. Another, fix a tax system. We saw that in the government agreement between Junts and Esquerra, but also in the agreement between Esquerra and the CUP, they forgot to talk about taxation. We were surprised by the CUP, which normally, therefore, always advocate for some more just and progressive tax reform. It wasn't there. We don't know exactly what his will will be, but in any case, we already tell them that we will insist on this issue and, more importantly, we will pressure them to fight hard against tax fraud. Gestha has established, in one of his later reports, that the tax fraud in Catalonia up to €16,000_million, that is to say, a very important amount that, if you go through a part, even though it was only a 1_per_cent, would mean very important entries. The third challenge would be a new funding system for Catalonia. The current one has expired since the year 2014, and I must say that its predecessors, therefore, have not led, as had other Catalan governments, the negotiation of a new financing system. We would like to see 'you, this new Councillor of Economics and History, coming to negotiate, coming to the chair that surrounds us to the Council of Fiscal Policy and Finance. Catalans cannot let empty cadres; we must be, if not leading, that is what we would like, as the least participant and sharing and collaborating in this new financing system, which, moreover, the Government of Spain wants to start. In fact, we would have allies here, because both the Valencian country and the Balearic Islands have spoken a lot in our line, right? And we believe, Counsellor Giró, that you should start a new stage in this sense, because neither Vice President Junqueras nor Vice President Aragonès were very active in this very important area for Catalonia. Then we'd like the ICO to be a more transparent, more useful instrument for the peppers, too, wouldn't we? We think you have a long way to go. I know you're talking about a public bank. So long as we're talking about a public investment bank, so many years, we'll see, so, if you're able to advance a little that goal. And later on – and no less important, all the contrary – you have the management of projects funded for European foundations. It's a big package, an important package to transform our economy, and we think it has a big challenge here, above all to make it a little more participative and more collaborative with the groups that we conform to this chamber, and also with social and economic agents and the local world. Miri, on the contrary, we did a specific committee in Parliament; we asked some opposition groups, among those who were mine, to speak, therefore, precisely of the European foundations. There were some motions for resolutions which, as we were accustomed to, at least the previous governments, did not complete, in which we asked, therefore, to set up a working table between parliamentary groups, another between social and economic agents, and a third with the local world. These three prisons were set up, they were set up. It would be good if at this new stage there was a little more dialogue and collaboration with those things we have to say and we have to help Catalonia move forward, right? But I wanted to focus a little on the assumptions today. I have to tell you, Mr. Turned, if you don't know, that in this room a couple of years ago we didn't approve of the assumptions at the time, huh? You are a person of prestige, who goes from the professional world, who knows that things are going to be fine. So look, here's a couple of years ago, since the September of 2009 that we don't approve some assumptions at the time, which means that the 1st generation doesn't come into effect a new assumption. A lot of time, huh? For a country that's always wanted to make things right. And, of course, being on a presuppositional prorogation, which is what happens to us today, so it carries some limitations. I guess you know that, and you must have explained it, right? We cannot expand Chapter 1, we cannot make new investments, we cannot use the resources of programs that ended the previous year; that is, it does not allow us the freedom of a new premise. The former Economic Adviser and Vice-President said that an extended assumption does not give us the necessary tools to manage well. "The extended assumption makes us work with pieces," he said, "and this is no alternative, because it does not allow us to cope with the needs we have today. That was the 24th of April last year. And it's true, a very limited assumption. But it's that, besides, that of the year 2020, which we have extended encany, is a premise that was designed before the pandemic – it had not yet appeared here, it had not arrived the Covid. And, therefore, it's a premise that he didn't give answers to the pandemic, but he didn't give answers to the social and economic crisis that then brought us this pandemic, did he? Therefore, a completely misguided assumption to the realities that we have at these times. And one thing also important: in a presuppositionary_mark that is not what we have today. Because the presupposition of 2020 was made, for example, with a deficit target of 0.2, and now the State has allowed a 1_per_cent. Imagine's, a 0,8 margin, which is almost 2,000_million euros more we could spend, but the presupposition prorogation decree does not allow this to be done. That's to say, very ankylosed, very conditioned. Moreover, as I suppose that of this was not so conscious the vice president Aragonès, today very honorable president and candidate in those moments of Esquerra Republicana, on the 9th of February, in a debate of electoral campaign, he was compromised in his investiture debate to carry in parallel a proposal of assumptions. We did not see either March or April, which in their investiture debate put forward this proposal for assumptions. He said at that time that everything was going to be linked, that it was so important, it was essential that the agreements were annexed in parallel. We have not seen it at the moment, but we are convinced that it is certain that it was working in the department on these assumptions by 2021, that the candidate Aragonès was already saying that they were so important. And they are, and a lot. And we, in this sense, are not convinced, are we? It is the main law that approves a government and a parliament, or that presents a government and approves a parliament; it is the most important and, for us, essential. Look, I just want to say a few things, some examples, right? , of resources that were not 2020 and, therefore, are not 2021 and we already lose two years, eh? Some examples. Look, I know you're very connected and have a certain, positive relationship with the world of knowledge. Miri, the National Knowledge Society Pact was approved at last year's June. He said that in five years we incorporated about 400_million euros; each year, 84. 2020 is going to oblivion; in that presupposition is going to oblivion the 84. In this one, they're no longer there because we're on an extended assumption. They're losing their years, aren't they? , and had to get these 1,300_millions for the universities until 2024. Pact against School Segregation in Catalonia. In five courses, from the past year, 162_million euros. They didn't put them in 2020 anymore; we also forgot. And now, 2021, with presuppositional prorogation, neither. We are one of the European regions with more school segregation, Mr Giró. I mean, I say, every time I say these things I get beat up, huh? A company as advanced as ours. About the inclusive school. The very honorable president did his first act at the Tauli Hospital, visiting mental salvation, didn't he? And giving him the importance he has, which is a lot. But we want to say to him that 2020 was not a prerequisite for increasing allocations to address these specificities. Therefore, 2020, there was none; 2021, there were none. And our day: listen to me, how can we predict the attention to the so important increase of disruptions that are there in the adolescent population? How do we do it with an extended assumption? It's good to take pictures. But as important are the photos as the facts, and not the words, that I said yesterday, it seems to me, until it seems very honorable president. And we could also speak, for example, of salvation. In greeting came a covid fund of 3,065_million euros last year; this one, there is a fund of 13,400 – we can get to touch around 2,000 and escaig millions euros. We know that you have contracted, you have contracted the personal year to the health sector. We'd like to know how they're going to consolidate it, because these funds are going to be this year, but the year they're going to be gone. We're on an extended assumption. Finally, we need to strengthen the health system, I think we are all clear, but if we don't have assumptions, if we don't have resources, it seems a little difficult. Clearly you can say to me: "Home, we are in June, today is the 3rd day. Yes, but look, the processing of the presupposition of year 2020 lasted two_months and call. It began, the debate to the totality, the 12th of February and ended on the 24th of April. We can do an emergency procedure; we can do it, the Rules allow it. I mean, we could have a presupposition before we went to summer. It's a matter of volunteering. I've listened at length, these days, that you... or that President Aragones has made a technical government, a government of many professionals. So, finally, I would expect a professional government, a technical government, to be put to work, as the president of my group said yesterday – that it is put to work. And I think one of the first things this government is going to put on is to make the premise by 2021. And then we'll see what happens to the year you see. But today it is true that we have an emergency, with an extended assumption that it was not designed or thought for a pandemic, and therefore we believe that this is a relevant issue. And, therefore, counselor, put things down and we have a presupposition for 2021 as soon as possible better. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.43.0	To answer the honourable Member's question, the words of the Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Jaume Giró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.44.0	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, President. Counselor... thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. And many thanks for all and for the forms of this first intervention, which I very much appreciate your happiness and I am sure we will have many opportunities to debate and enter into matter. This first intervention..., I will then answer some of the things that you have asked me, but allow me, first of all, to share with the ladies and gentlemen as I see the situation now at the social and economic level. It will be a very short presentation, but I do want to share it because it's not now, but it's been a long time since I've been following it and worrying about it, first as a city and now as a counselor. Mirin, when suddenly there is a severe crisis like the severe and long crisis that we have suffered – first, the 2008 financial crisis, or the crisis caused by the covid as of February or March 2020 – the first one that the citizens notice is an economic shock. There's a crisis, there's an economic shock. But this economic turnout, which is translated, logically, into a fall in macroeconomic indicators of consumption, demand, weather, investment, etc., but after the economic turnout, society gets a bruise. This blau, which is first almost imperceptible, then grew, and are the social consequences of economic crises. Catalonia has fevers from the social point of view that we must try to reverse. And that's also economics. They are feverish that are accentuated from the crisis, as in the case of the economic crisis of 2008 and that is not exceeded from the top when the new crisis of the covid, because the financial economic crisis is exceeded from the 14th, but many people do not recover their living standards that they will lose from the crisis of 2008. Mirin, the European Commission set out, five years ago, an indicator that has been on track for some time, which is the indicator of social progress. It's the Regional Social Progress Index. It is an indicator that I particularly like because it opens a debate that goes beyond GDP. A solid metric, formed by fifty-five different indicators, complementing GDP. It does not replace it, but it helps to hear better data on GDP. Well, the results of this past year 2020, which has just been published, are for Catalonia's disappointing force. While Catalonia stands out positively in some areas such as health care, we occupy the 135_between_240 regions in social progress. Or in terms of GDP we are in 75. And if we look at more concrete elements of this indicator, just tell it that the high early school drop-out rate, which is 19_per_cent, makes Catalonia situated at 196 – 196 – over 240 regions. As an environmental quality – I have to admit that I had to look at it three times – the levels of nitrogen dioxide contamination are in our 225_on_240 position. And, as you know, the levels of poverty..., and the risk of poverty is in Catalonia of 19,5_per_cent, very much above the European middle of 16,8. In the same way, we have a high level of inequality. As you know, inequality, which is the income difference between the upper quintile and the lower quintile, which in Catalonia is 5.4 times when in the euro area is 4.9. We have, therefore, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, a lot of work to do. This government will try to do it with all the economic instruments we have at the bottom, which unfortunately are not all we want. The fiscal deficit..., you spoke of taxation in another sense, I will also answer it after what I was talking about, but the fiscal deficit and the investment deficit leave behind the competitiveness of the Catalan economy and its growth potential; I think it's worth remembering. The system of autonomous financing..., in which you invited me to sue to try to improve it ; sure you from your party in Madrid, now in the Government, will also be able to help us. The system of autonomous financing generates a system and bloody fiscal deficit for Catalonia, where, as is known, the difference between what goes to the State and what we get from the State is in an annual average, if we count the next thirty years, of 8_percent of the annual GDP. 2016 – is the most recent data published here – the fiscal deficit reached 16,947_million euros – 16,947 – that is, about 2,200_euros per inhabitant. Only here in this room, if you're full, could we say that there are 300,000 euros every year that we start without them at our butxacs. But it is that, Mrs Romero, in addition to the fiscal deficit, Catalonia also suffers from an investment deficit. A study prepared for the University of Barcelona concludes that the cumulative impact of the State's investment deficit on our country remained at the Catalan GDP at 9.8 points in the period 2002-2017, which represents exactly 23.800_million euros, with 2018 values – 23.820. The investment deficit is double; double because..., first, due to the low execution of those investments that are announced and that are assumed, but then do not execute – a trend especially pronounced from the year 2011–, and, moreover, the investment deficit for the great gap between the expected investment and the economic pesso of Catalonia in the conjunction of the State. According to the same Ministry of Hisenda – just published the data – the State has invested in Catalonia, the year 2020, 957_millions, representing 124.7 – 124.7 euros per capita. The average in Spain was 161_euros, and Múrcia, Castella approaches 370-380_euros per inhabitant. When I talk about the fiscal deficit or the state's investment deficit in Catalonia, I don't interpret it as a political position; that's not politics, that's economy. Because when they don't do the things that are right with the criteria that the economy recommends, in what the economy would say "with pure logic, someone is doing politics, but not the ones that we show and denounce this situation. It is necessary to reverse this investment deficit, because, in one band, the investment deficit is determinant for the economic growth we need in the next four years, and a very effective tool to cope with the challenges we have of digital revolution, the estimation of the productive economy, research, innovation and the protection of the most vulnerable. To do all this, ladies and gentlemen, requires a huge amount of public and private funding, and I therefore believe that it is everyone's job to remember this situation as well. And that's why I'd like to make two suggestions; they're neither complaints nor petitions, because they don't correspond to me now, but humbly two suggestions. One, to you and to all the groups..., to all the members of the Socialist Group: that they help us to restore these deficits of investment and fiscal deficit, and that they help us, with the Government of Madrid, to overcome it. And the second suggestion I would do, just as I thought, at the conjunction of organizations and entities that we saw yesterday that they made a solemn unitary act calling for the expansion of the airport; an act that seems very legitimate to me, very respectable. But I think it would also be a good thing that, from time to time, we made joint acts of this strength and of this broad consensus to demand that we overcome the investment deficit and fiscal deficit suffered by Catalonia and that it went far beyond a concrete infrastructure. In relation to tax issues, if it seems to you now, with the reply, we can move forward. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.45.0	Then, in the turn of the line, has the parable of Congresswoman Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.46.0	Counselor, I'll be honest with you, huh? : I liked this first intervention you made about the data, because here sometimes it cost us, it cost us to put science. It is good to know the data, they are the ones who mark the way to take the decisions and the policies that we have to do; therefore, I liked this. I also have to tell you that I was surprised that you took very quickly the whole – the whole – of the other governments and the whole of the advisors who may have more experience. Because, of course, this is the Parliament of Catalonia, we talked about the 2021 assumption, I can talk about the 2022 assumption, and you just told me about the others; this is very typical in this Parliament. And it's good to talk about the others. And already has my commitment and that of my group and that of the president of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Illa, that we will go from his hand, with you, if you want, to negotiate a new financing system, to work, as we have already done, because in the presupposition of 2021 of the Government of Spain there are investments that close us to GDP; also the third additional provision, those 2,000_million of the provision. That is to say, this 2021 has made an important effort, and here the Catalan Socialists have been and we will remain there. But, beyond that, of course, we hoped that you would tell us what you intend to do in Catalonia, not to say "listen, the Spaniards". Well, the government of Spain has an approved premise, huh? , in effect from the 1st generation, and has made a very considerable effort because the investments are still close to Catalonia. It's true that then, with the execution, maybe we're not feeling all the fleas we're supposed to be, but we say it – we recognize it. I would appreciate it if, from time to time, some of the councillors or deputies of this side would come out here and recognize some of the mistakes of their government; that you do not recognize them, and it must be a little honest. We recognize them, yes, but in the presupposition of 2021 we have completed with as much as the percentage that touched on GDP to the Generality, the Government of Catalonia and Catalans. And that too would be good if I said so. Well, I don't want to get into the tax deficit, because it's a subject that has also given many hours of debate, but I'll just say one thing: you said 16,000_million euros; 16,000_million euros is tax fraud in Catalonia – 16,000_million euros is tax fraud in Catalonia – those that defraud us all. And Counselor Mas-Colell, when he was Economic Counselor, lowered these 16,000 that you gave to 2,405 – 1,2_per_cent of GDP. Home, I think that, in short, a person of prestige is the Andreu Mas-Colell Economics Advisor. Dos_mil_four-cents_five. So, it's the same, we don't get into these figures, we negotiate what's close to the table where the Fiscal and Finance Policy Council is to have the best financing system. What are we going to ask of you, Counsellor Giró? That I was going to negotiate on behalf of all the Catalans, that I got the best financing system for Catalonia, that if you have to change the tax system you do it because we have more tickets, just and progressive. That's what we'll ask of you. Or what we ask of him from the day of today, because, as we have already repeated, we will not give them a hundred days, nor fifty, nor come, nor thirty, nor two. We're here to ask you, please, to make a presupposition by 2021. We've given him a lot of arguments in this sense, and I think it's more necessary than ever, beyond the data..., that it's good to know them and that to a poser..., well, the fan wants to, because you said some data that are worrying. And my partner Jordi Terrades asked before Councilwoman Jordan and it seemed that... well, he didn't read these dates you said about the contamination in Catalonia, did he? , or the need to bet on renewable energies. Well, then it would be good if you passed this study or a summary of this study to all the counselors, because science, the data are the ones that have to mark our policies. And, therefore, what we give him, counselor, is that he presents, with an emergency procedure, if necessary, a presupposition for 2021 more necessary than ever. Listen to me, and you have a majority in Parliament, it's true, important: seventy-four Members. And, therefore, listen'm, with them first you have to work. But I would also say to him that he does not forget all the other Members who comply with this Parliament, because at least the Socialists have always been willing not to obstruct, but to build. And, therefore, in this sense, I also wanted to say that, since professionalism, dialogue and transparency, we would like you to take this into account. And don't forget: it's important the 2022 premise; it's important, because we won't have extraordinary covid foundations – we won't have it – and adjusting the needs we have won't be easy people. That's why it's important that some of your own vaginas at the table negotiate an autonomous financing system. We'll help them. And it's good to do the criticism you're looking for, but today we're in the Parliament of Catalonia. We demand the Government of Catalonia, and then, wherever you go, we will also accompany you by demanding, if necessary, or asking the Government of Spain that what you do better. But, really, counselor, I suggest you: don't take over what other governments have had, because, if not, it's a dialog in which we don't get out; some of us talk about what we care about, things, and then you talk about many more. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.47.0	Then there's the words of the Economics and History advisor to make the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.48.0	Madam President, thank you very much for your intervention. Look, I, if I may, would say to you, answering some of the concrete aspects that you have raised for me: first of all – you will already know me – I am a self-requiring, but also self-critical man. And, therefore, I have no doubt that I don't know who you think all the blame is for the others. But in economic issues we are obviously, like the country, connected with one hand and with a little. And connected in this way it costs more to run than others. But we don't do it all right, we never did it all right, as no one does it all right. So, I'm sure we need to better manage the tiny resources we have. In second place, the subject of the presupposition. Look, I wasn't there, in this room; you do bring a few years. And, therefore, if in six years only two assumptions have been approved, maybe you or your group, with a little generosity, maybe sure... [[applause]] I'm sure you could... [[applause]] I'm sure you could have helped pass some of the presuppositions, which, for reasons of presuppositions, you could have approved. That, in the first place. Secondly, let's say that, if we're talking about presupposition productivity, miri, I think it's quite equivalent to the productivity that President Sanchez has, which carries a presupposition in three years. It's the same one in three years as two in six years. So that's where we're at, too. [[Greetings.]] In the third place, as you know very well, a premise requires time, requires negotiation, requires doing it well. And so I can tell you now that the government presides over Mr Pere Aragonès and all his advisors and I, as the Councillor of Economy, will work to make a good assumption; that it is a assumption that allows for shared prosperity; that it allows economic growth, but also socially and mediately; that it allows for a solid growth, but also inclusive and sustainable. And this assumption we'll start working from the week you see. And that's why I'll get in touch with the different parliamentary groups, to have a first round of contacts and start working on a law, as you say, the most important, or the most important that a government can have, and that obviously needs time, as you know as well as I do. And so we want to do it, we'll do it right, we'll do it in time, but we'll do the presuppositions by 2022. Because we're in June and it's obviously an obvious thing that you already knew, but as I'm asking myself, so I answer it. Finally, we talked about tax fraud. He may be convinced that we are determined to improve what has already been improved later, because thanks to the Catalonia Tax Agency, a tax fraud has come out that before he could be sure he was there– there was no, no; there was much more – but it didn't come out. Now, with the least, it's coming out. And I can assure you that I, as a counselor and the whole government, have the greatest interest in, since we lack as many resources as we would, as the people who are here and who are still here in the country, citizens and businesses..., certainly, more than a hundred and a thousand more companies than in Madrid; I say this because it seems that all the companies have fled here, huh? (Applause.) No, I think these things have to go, too. In Catalonia we are around 633-635,000 businesses, mostly medium and small. And Madrid has 110,000 less than us, despite everything. So, listen, we'll work for everyone. We're gonna make everyone... we're gonna try, we're gonna put all the media in 'cause everybody's paying for what they're paying for, because obviously tax fraud is one of the most embarrassing crimes that any society can have. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. President... [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.49.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the strategic lines of the department competent in terms of equality]] [[300-00006/13]] Let us move on to the fifteenth point of the order of the day, which is the inquiry to the Government on the strategic lines of the department competent in the matter of equality, which the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left presented. To make the presentation of the inquiry, Mrs Jenn Díaz has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.50.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone. Good morning and welcome, Counselor. Well, I'd like to use this inquiry to make a little context, because more or less than half a year ago, it's not up there, that we finished a legislature in which we didn't have any advice from Equality and Feminisms, and I'd like, somehow, to make this transfer, this way of transition, to know and to situate where we're coming from, where we're going and where we're going. Perhaps the way we go we can point it out better to you from the council, but I would like to clarify that the last legislature, the dotzena, we were very productive in terms of equality: we held the first Parliament of the Dones, we held the first monogram on equality in forty years of the Democratic Parliament, we made a plan of equality, which you as the expert accompanied the chamber. And so, we made a series of measurements, a series of bases, didn't we? , which will serve for parliamentary activity and for the legislation of the future. And it's no coincidence that it's in these three years of the last legislature, where the feminist movement was stronger than ever in the street. And so, somehow you have a certain sense that this legislature we're starting now, so we're getting tough, right? It's not just because we have this institutional feminism that interacts with the feminist movement, which, as I say, is the strongest in history... And, therefore, as we are at ease, the next parliamentary term, in parliamentary terms, and now also in the run-up to it. From the past legislature to this, six months have passed. We made a campaign; a campaign in which we in the Republican Left committed ourselves, we made an electoral compromise with the creation of this council. We did not want any advice, but a capacity of incidence, a political advice, that you have this ability to cross-reference the policies of gender, and we personally defended that this advice was to follow the maximum of Angela Davis, who said that all that feminism that hierarchizes or privileges, therefore, would not be useful for the conjunction of the city. In that sense, isn't it? , many of the subjects that you will bring forward and lead from the council of Igualt and Feminisms listen to this logic. Feminisms, Equality and Feminisms, as the name of the commission of the Parliament of Catalonia, which this legislature will be by law. This plural..., which you yourself recognized, in one of your first interviews, that this plural obeys the currents of feminism and, therefore, with this look of being respectful. But it's not just an aesthetic issue, it's not just an interview with feminist movements, but this councillor also has an ideology, obviously. Many times here it's about ideology as if it were a negative thing. All the contrary: this council, with this plural, obeys some logic that I would like to clarify, because I think they are important, because it is a council of Equality and Feminism, of trans-inclusive feminism, of class feminism and of prodret feminism. There are a lot of debates about feminism, feminist movement, the political subject of feminism, and with these three pots– transinclusive, classy and also prodrets–, I think we find what our will is. In this chamber, whenever we have put forward policies in terms of equality and feminism we have found consensus, we have found fewer red lines than in other aspects. And, in this sense, I think we're going to have an opportunity again. It is obvious from the past that equality policies are cross-cutting. I know that there are many departments that say so, that many of the policies are cross-cutting, it is true, but probably that of Equality and Feminism has this vocation to be able to transversalize these policies more. It's also cross-section of this chamber. I believe that every time parliamentary groups have had much debate about equality and feminism, we have succeeded in agreeing. But just as in other issues there are vetoes, I think there is also one here, that they are human rights. Here the vetoes, the red lines, do not pose them nor our parliamentary group, do not pose them the Government, do not pose them the Parliament, but they possess the human rights. Why? It was said before by the Councillor of the Interior, that somehow from the institutions the public representatives authorize citizenship with our debates, with our actions, with our ways of explaining our political positions. Somehow we use citizenship. And it is obvious that in this legislature, some of the debates, some of the consensus that we already had in this chamber, are altering. Why do they change? So, first of all, because we have a faixist parliamentary group and, therefore, here, there was no doubt that male violence if anything is common, so this debate is probably going to re-sacrifice it, and we are going to re-debate expectations, obviously, for the intervention of a faixist parliamentary group that went against human rights. But I have to say that from our group we do not expect, from VOX. Therefore, we understand that they are against human rights, we understand that we have to fight them, we understand that this council is also a councillor of equality, feminism, anti-feixist, anti-racist and against LGBTIphobia will also fight them. But I'd like to talk about hate speech, too, wouldn't I? , which in some ways no longer only pulls forward and defends the ultra-dream groups, but those groups that were supposed to be left-wing – and here I'm talking about the PSC – also use the institutions to generate this institutional violence that we can do from institutions that authorize many, already vulnerable, collectors, to be at the point of view. That's why I said that this council has some vetoes, it has some red lines that are human rights, and I would like to say again – let's say the last legislature and let's say this again, taking advantage of the advent of this inquiry – that this is a trans-inclusive council. And, therefore, that institutional violence that is taking place since the Congress of Deputies, which is taking place in the name of socialism and, above all, of Mrs Carmen Calvo, will not have a place in this chamber. And so, too, somehow these debates are perverted, right? , because they authorize masculinism, they authorize the LGTBifóbia, they authorize racism, we see it with the questioning of the ultra-rights about occupations, and they also authorize fascism. So, somehow, I mean, right? , that these vetoes, that these red lines will lay down their human rights. For Catalan law, there are three lines to work for. For a band, check out the laws we already have. Catalonia has always been a pioneer in equality legislation. So, somehow, update them, be able to review them. For another band, make new ones. There is a consensus, there is a mandate from the law of equal treatment and non-discrimination that said that in a new term we would pull forward the Catalan trans law and, therefore, with this line of strengthening rights for everyone. But I also believe that there is another line to explore – and now I am specifically addressing my partner Susanna Segovia – from another of the work we have to do from parliamentary groups, which is to defend our legislation. Because in the last intervention we made in this hemicle we defended a law against male violence that broadened rights for everyone and that, despite its political irrelevance in this chamber, taking advantage of the deputies in Madrid, the PP has filed an appeal for unconstitutionality. And so, somehow, we'll update the laws we already have, make them new and protect Catalan legislation. In short, feminism is the most transformative, most emancipating, most revolutionary political movement. Mr. Illa said he couldn't be independent and left-handed. With this advice, what we would show is that precisely the independence of feminist lefts is one of the few points to the totality of the 78's and, therefore, from this legislature and also from this advice, in short, what we would do is to lay on the table, right? That in this matter of equality we also have an opportunity. I don't leave him, he will advise, because he explains to us – as I said, I'm from where we came from, as far as we're concerned – the future of this council, which is what he proposes. And ultimately, what I'm proposing to you is an insurmountable alliance of law enforcement to push forward fair, feminist, class-feminism and trans-inclusive policies. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.51.0	To answer, has the word the Councillor of Equality and Feminisms, the Lady Tània Verge... [[Pause.]] Yes, Mr. Garriga, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.52.0	Yes, for Rule 87, allusions to my parliamentary group accusing him of crimes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.53.0	Yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.54.0	The honourable Member...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.55.0	It's got to be...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.56.0	...he said we're a fascist group...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.57.0	One moment – one moment. I haven't given him the word yet. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Allusions must occur at the end of the intervention. So I'll give him the word at the end. Thank you. It has the word, as I said, the Councillor of Equality and Feminisms, the Lady Tània Verge.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.58.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs... thank you very much, MP, for the opportunity to explain what you have come to do with this advice. To be a new department, we are still in construction and, therefore, today what we can present to them is the premise of which party, which is our raison d'être and which are our commitments. For what it does to the premise, this government understands that without free people we will never be able to have a free country. No equal has set him free. With masclism there has not been personal freedom nor collective freedom, nor with LGTBifóbia nor with racism, xenophobia or anti-Egyptism; nor with capacitism, edatism, serophobia or any other form of discrimination, nor with the levels of socioeconomic inequality of the normal old. A country that pays the living penalty has to guarantee the right of all people to be and to be, to be free of imposed roles and stereotypes, and to be free of rapes. When we're wearing a year, Catalonia has had six feminicides; last night. On behalf of the government, we have already condemned this morning this new male murder. We arrive at our call to the victim's family and we anticipate that the fight against masculinist rape will be an absolute priority of this government. Masclist rapes, those that, from structural power relationships, men exercise over women by the sun made to be women, are systemic. They are not exceptional individual behaviors, winged or pathological. It is based on a patriarchal ideology. As Kate Miller put it, control in patriarchal societies would be imperfect, even inoperative, if the empire of force is not sustained, whether it is in case of emergence or as a constant instrument of intimidation. A recent study, coordinated by the University of Girona, concludes that 68_percent of the respondents know or have witnessed a case of male violence in the length of their lives. At the remaining 32_per_cent we ask you to ask the women of your environment how many times we pass by when we return home or go out to run; what is our own work, in the educational field, in spaces of oci or political militancy; from which social networks we have come out for the digital violence we suffer, among other forms of daily violence exercised by men of different ages, conditions, origins. For what it does to the LGTBifóbia, the year 2020 was recorded in Catalonia 1,180 incidents and 83 complaints. Only this past week have there been six homophobic attacks in Barcelona, which we have condemned and offered to accompany the SAI network. The year 2019 has recorded 188 attestations for hate crimes, with a tendency to rise in the later years. Inequalities and rapes are a failed system of democracy that urgently needs to be addressed. We come to face them with the maximum strength for democratic and justice empire, because freedom and equality, both individual and collective, are indestriable. Our reason for being the anticipatory yesterday the president: a new structure for the feminist transformation of the country. And, if I can do the half-way with a building, in the foundations we find the political compromise with equality, it could not be in any other way; the first floor is occupied by the legislative framework, which establishes formal equality, and the second floor is inhabited by positive actions aimed at clearing those barriers at the starting point that are structurally unequal. The Fourth World Donation Conference, held in Beijing in the year 95, set out a new political strategy to achieve equality, gender mainstreaming, with a set of tools to take into account situations, needs, expectations of both women and men in all public policies, at all stages and at all levels. And this strategy does not work by building a third pis in a building where equality policies follow an area of sectoral policy. The council of Igualtat and Feminismes does not go to build this third floor, it goes to redefin the building, to sack it, as it is 'nsha charged, from a new feminist architecture that transforms both the building and the barrier senter. We will make the perspective of generating a guiding principle of all public action and equality policies will be a central axis of all departments, including social rescue measures. We do not start from scratch, the name of the council reflects a plural DNA, the work of many feminist women who have preceded us in a more far or more recent past, both in social activism and in institutions, with diverse theoretical and practical approaches that contribute to an agenda of global transformation of the feminisms of 99_per_cent. The change is only to be accompanied by action, movement and revolution, as under the Bell Hooks. We also collect the tools and structures developed in the last decades for the Catalan Institute of Donations, which will be a central part of the cross-cutting strategy of the Council, as well as for the Secretary of Equality, Migration and Citizenship in the two later legislatures. But we want to emphasize that we are starting from a new place; from a band, because we are at the highest political level, that we will be able to coordinate and plan equal policies together with the different departments and with the public administrations of all territorial levels, with whom we share services and resources. And we will also look for work together with all those political formations with whom we share an agenda of social transformation. On the other hand, to apply the transversality of genera taking into account the diversity of the vital situations of women and men. We are not only women and men who are, trans or people who are not binary; we are of a social class, we have a sexual orientation, certain abilities, a age, a origin, a skin color. The new architecture requires, therefore, to work with an intersectoral focus, with the gaze laid on how the axes of inequality intersect. We will also maintain a real dialogue with the entities that also want to transform the country, especially with the National Council of Donations of Catalonia and the National Council of LGBTI of Catalonia, making them participants in the design of policies and the retention of accounts. In the end, for what it does to the commitments we make and what we can explain today when we still don't have the structure – as I say, we are in construction as a new councillor – the compromise is diaphanous: to deploy equal laws with a focus on human rights. The council of Equality and Feminisms will be structured into three large spheres, which have some laws of reference. First, policies to ensure effective equality of women and men and to eradicate male violence, with laws 17/2015, 5/2008 and the recent amendment of the Law 17/2020. Secondly, the equal treatment and non-discrimination policies incorporate the LGTBI+ policies, and the promotion of human rights, with Law 11/2014 and Law 19/2020. And in the third place, the policies of guaranteeing the rights of people who are migrants and refugees, also embarrased by the Law 19/2020. And let me be clear, equal laws are not recommendations. We will deploy and implement them with due diligence and full power, and we will require the Government of the State to transpose and give compliments to the international brand that acquires all the rights that incorporate these laws, as we now find ourselves in front of an unjustifiable limitation of the guarantee of the rights of women in a situation of male violence or of the rights of trans people. And we will also develop the sanctioning regime for these laws in order to deal with incompliments and discriminations that can be sanctioned through administrative means. We will develop with a cross-cutting, cross-sectoral and coordinated approach with the different councils the interdepartmental plans for gender equality policies, LGTBI+ policies and the National Pact for Interculturality. With these and other tools we also come to build a country where the sustainability of life and the cures are at the center of all policies; a country where all the jobs count; a country that I did not leave behind because of its origin or its administrative situation; a country of welcome for refugees. And since it could not be otherwise, as I anticipated, the Government will have as its highest priority the fight against all forms of male violence in the different areas where these are produced, lock in institutional violence, and attend to how the syndicate has sharpened the display of women to control their peers. We will put awareness, prevention, detection, recovery and repair policies in tune, complimenting the principles of due diligence and non-revictimization, expanding the dissemination of resources to the absorptive of the women beyond the complaint and co-responsible for the society's joint venture to stop normalizing these rapes. We will start from a rigorous technical work that gives a coordinated response with the Departments of Justice and Home Affairs to end impunity, with the Department of Social Rights to ensure coordination in the care of children and families who suffer from male violence, and generally with all the departments that have between their competences the areas where these violations occur, beyond the realm of the couple or family, such as education, community, work, digital or political. Finally, we will work tirelessly to eradicate LGBTIphobia, racism, xenophobia, anti-Gypsyism and all those discriminations, such as capacitism, which cannot be led into a democratic and just society. In short, we will work from a focus on human rights, because the rights of women are human rights; because the rights of LGBTI people are human rights; the rights of migrant people are human rights, and the rights of refugees are human rights. That I have no doubt about it either: the denialist discourses and hate speech that pose human rights in question and, therefore, the freedom of people will tend this government to the front. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.59.0	Next, there's the word Mrs. Jenn Díaz, in a five-minute replica turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.60.0	Thank you, President. Well, as you said yourself, all those structural rapes, like LGBTIphobia and feminicide... that, in fact, these last two weeks, right? We didn't see it as an explosion, probably because the pandemic... the confinement also changed the behavior of many of these rapes. Probably because of this we will have to put all our intelligence at the disposal of this new behavior of the violins: what do you mean, after strict confinements and detailing of freedoms; how they will work from now on. And, therefore, how these responses must be transversal and are neither separated nor incompatible with those public policies that are drawn from Justice or from the Interior for which it makes attacks. And, therefore, we also develop and deploy all these laws. You said this was going to be a project, because, in fact, this was one of the first premises, wasn't it? That it was an institutionalized feminism that somehow could make this understanding with the social and basic movements, with an organized feminist movement in Catalonia and very strong. And, therefore, we celebrate this decision to be able to interlocute the organized feminist movement. And finally, it is obvious that if we have a council of Equality and Feminisms in this legislature it is for all those women that at times when feminism was not strong, it was minority, that in this chamber there was not nearly 50_percent of women deputies, when direct representation was minimal..., it is obvious that it is for all of them, isn't it? , which preceded, which opened the path, which today we have a council of Equality and Feminisms, encapsulated by a feminist woman, compromise and referent in the feminist movement. And so this legislature, this councillor, this parliamentary group, this strong alliance between the legislature and the executive, it's also for all those women, isn't it? They can't live this legislature where they correspond, which is from these escons, which should probably also be in the government; all those women that you yourself claimed when you were a councillor from the movement"No woman in oblivion, and also for all those who opened the door to us. I think of the first woman deputy to the Parliament of Esquerra, the Carme Porta, who opened many and many doors because today we can be here, defending this council and this new legislature, which will be very strong in terms of equality and feminism, because we do not have any doubt. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.61.0	Next, there is the word in a turn of reply to the councillor of Equality and Feminisms, Mrs. Tània Verge.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.62.0	Thank you so much again. I believe that it is inherent in the feminist movement and to all that we feel feminist, knowing that this alliance is indispensable in all institutions, with as many political formations as it can, with the street, with entities, with all spaces where there are women feminists with double militancy, whether political parties, still in the university sphere, working from the policies of equality of those spaces. We need all of us for this global transformation. Therefore, the councillor will work from this will and we hope to find all these alliances on the way, they also understand that we are a councillor that we are born with great expectation, that the expectations will be very high – they will also be ours – but that we assume that we will work transparently, that we will wait for this retention of accounts, and that the proposals that come from all these social, political, spaces will be very well joined and that we will achieve, from this level of influence that has not been reached so far in equal policies, that we can also work together with the government's departments together, as if they were transmitted by different councillors and councillors, that we can end up with power. An important element, too, of what he has raised: where we came from. It is obvious that the social relevancy of feminism of the last years without the mobilization in the street, without coming, however, from these decades regarding social mobilization more recently, but secular thinking and theoretic production of feminisms, and that this has impacted on institutions. From here you see... you're also sure of the same perspective. It began last parliamentary term with only two women in the Bureau; now it has begun with five, parliamentary groups respect parity. Not all of them, because we know that the law also gives some "legal loopholes" to complete with the law's letter, but to violate its hope. There's one, in particular, that's after very well. And this would be, for example, one of the best opportunities we can work on: which reforms of existing laws also allow us a better guarantee of rights, in this case betting. But it's obvious that gambling isn't the only thing, is it? , in which we have glass suspenses, clumsy lands, a very high level of precariousness, and depending on these unequal axes that intersect, more unequal. Therefore, we want to fill all areas of political action in order to transform the country into a feminist sense. Important, too, when we say that the fight against male violence will have the highest priority, do a serious job with men. We're talking about male violence. I mean, they're rapes that men use against women, which I made clear to us. There is no alternative speech, because this is the speech..., it is not a speech, it is the international definition by the United Nations, the European Council, the Council of Europe, the European Parliament, all international institutions; it is as defined. A party with relatively limited democratic credentials will not come to us to question the definitions that are international consensus. Nor – at least on the part of the government and we will also do this work of sensitisation – are there micromasclisms, there are no micro-racisms, there are no micro-aggressions, what we have are structural rapes, some more invisible, some more naturalized, but they support what are later the hardest, more visible attacks that we know how to recognize. Therefore, in this alliance, as we say, of all these currents of thought, action, and with the social movements of reference, we will work to eradicate all these inequalities. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.63.0	Yes, Mr. Garriga, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.64.0	Well, he's already given it to me before. He told me that when the surgery was over, I could have had it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.65.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.66.0	I said before, Article 87. For allusions to the parliamentary group, specifically VOX, and I agree with your representative and he told me that he was giving it to me now. So I'll take it, if it doesn't taste hard.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.67.0	Yes, I just want to cheer him up, that the honourable Member, when she made a concrete statement from the VOX Parliamentary Group, did not make a statement to say: "From our parliamentary group we do not expect anything from Vox, I have written it down.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.68.0	If you don't know how hard it is, I answer allusions, not you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.69.0	No, no...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.70.0	I know what...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.71.0	Excuse me, I haven't given him the word yet. For now, the word I have. And I am saying to him: "Why ask me the word? And you say to me, "By allusions. And I remind you of what we talked about at the Spokesman's Meeting, because you were there, in what context we would give it for allusions. I therefore ask whether the allusions are for this sentence that Mrs Jenn Díaz said. Because if that's what Congresswoman Jenn Díaz said...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.72.0	[[The speaker begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ...it's a fascist, racist group, and it's not in favour of human rights. That's what it was for.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.73.0	Excuse me, because I was talking to you. I'm telling you, Mr. Garriga. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Garriga... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Garriga... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Garriga, you don't have the word; if you don't, I'll turn off the microphone. I'm using the word. Listen to me when I give him the word, talk. I'm telling you, I told you I'd give it back to you for allusions. The contextualization: contextualization of the context of the Board of Spokesmen, we explained at what time we would give the word for allusions and not enter into a chain of perpetual allusions. There are other parliamentary groups that have been prompted by his name. The context in which Mrs Jenn Díaz spoke about the VOX Parliamentary Group. If you want to hear what you've been talking about, you've got the word. [[Greetings.]] For a minute's space.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.74.0	Yes, I take it, the word, because he also said that my colleague's inquiry made references to racism, when I believe that Sergio Macian did not speak of race at any time. Look, I'm asking Mrs Diaz for a correction, because my party is not a fetishist, it's a democrat. Our party totally condemns violence against women, men and children, and, of course, we defend human rights. With which, Mrs. Díaz, I demand a rectification.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.75.0	Mrs. Díaz... all right. Thank you. Keep going. Mr. Moreno, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.76.0	President, also for allusions, in relation to Rule 77.1, and for compliance with the Rules of Procedure of Rule 90.1.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.77.0	Forward. Have a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.78.0	I understand that by allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.79.0	For allusions, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.80.0	Well, she has alluded, Mrs. Díaz, to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, since we are giving recollection to this institutional violence that comes out of the Congress of Deputies. I believe, Mrs. Diaz, that here you have not been at all uncertain. Among other things because, look, you and we are heresies of a struggle of many women, also many men and many institutions, to eradicate male violence and to work for equal opportunities and equality of the LGTBI collection. And I believe that the Government of the State and the Congress of Deputies have shown legislatively what their recourse has been; their Government still has to prove it. And, therefore, the one who asks you, please, is that we don't start titling those we share the same object from the same institutions where you are also represented, of making no kind of institutional rape. Just ask him that. I, Madam President, with a view to the observance of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 90.1...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.81.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.82.0	I would also like to refer to Article 81.1, which refers to the consistency of the debates. I think it's a good thing that if a deputy is asking a counselor, she's trying to ask about government action. And, therefore, we try to focus the debate on government action and not so much on using these turns as if it were a motion for a resolution, as if it were a motion for other parliamentary groups to take advantage of this time, to make more of a political speech than a check on the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.83.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreno. If no one else asks me the word, let's move on from the order of the day. [[Asking the Government about housing policies]] [[300-00008/13]] We arrive at the seven-point order of the day, which is the government's inquiry into housing policies. It is an inquiry presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - a New Cycle for Winning, and available for two minutes by Ms. Montserrat Vinyets to make presentation of the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.84.0	Good morning, President. MPs, MPs, "We will never be able to guarantee the right to a decent rest, to build a common life project and to weave complicitys around it. Without sovereignty in money or law, we can't guarantee this right. We have the right assumptions and today we don't have them; we don't have them because of the fiscal history we're suffering, because the general assumptions of the State are absolutely inappropriate. It's not that the money doesn't follow, it's that it's destined for absolutely unnecessary things and that they just have to back up the 78: Royal House, military expense rule. The most graphic example of the encounter was a month ago, when the King and the Minister of Defense pontificate the inauguration of a sub-husband who cost more than 4,000_million euros. Do you know what the assumption of the Catalonian Government in housing is? Do you know how many years of pressure these 4,000_million euros are in a subsea to guarantee the country's strategic independence? We have a problem: we don't have any money. Therefore, the exercise and the guarantee of this right passes to maintain a proper financing. Besides, we have no legislative capacity. The group of the commons reminded us: Catalonia has competence in habitating. So, we have competence in housing, in urban planning, in the planning of the territory. But it turns out that the right-of-property configuration is made by others, and made by the Spanish Constitution and made by the Constitutional Court. And our competence in housing serves us so little that we can't even make a law of yield containment; but we have done that from now on it will be expelled from the legal order by the guardian of the essences, the Constitutional Court. We don't have the legislative capacity to intervene in court proceedings where the charges are seen. We have so little legislative capacity that we can only try to make protocols as we do the launches. What is included here is legislation to make applications admissible and after they are totally knocked out by non-jurisdictional agreements of the TSJ. Therefore, with legislative capacity, we do not have one in terms of housing or what we have is very reduced. Nor do we have the legislative capacity to impact on the returnable foundations, neither on the Societies nor on the Sicav. Who had legislative competence in this area is the Spanish State, which has not made any law, unlike other states, which have not made laws to regulate this. And it didn't just make no law, but the one that did that would have to play tax rules, precisely to make some exemptions from corporate taxes and reduce the tax rate to 1_per_cent. They're still prerogatives. And the clearest example is the finding in the Sareb – the best example. Eurostat has just said that Sareb's debt is up to EUR 34,000_million. That's an absolute beast. The 78_regime came back to intervene because all of those bank and box housings, of these acts that held the banking entities that could form part of a public park of powerful housings, were managed for the usual: for Caixabank, Santander, Sabadell and their related real estate. We can't go on with this scene. If the problem of housing is a structural thing, we have to change the mark. And, for us, changing the mark only happens to make a right, which is the right to self-determination. But now we're laying down more short-terms and staring at the configuration of the new government that's had its place a few days ago. We don't like the mass, we don't like the name of this new consultancy of Digital Policies, Infrastructures and Urban Agenda. It has already fallen from the name "territory and urban planning", and without good urban planning and good planning we will not have powerful public housing policies. From the sectoral, from the infrastructure, they cannot go cross-cutting. And, therefore, what we are grateful for is for you to reconsider the configuration of this councillor, Mr. Puignero. And please put the focus on planning and urbanism. We have to change the way we've done habitating until now, Mr. Puignero. We must always start by giving immediate response from the extraordinary and urgent need and not from the perspective of the future. We must now abandon the logic of ordinary aid to payment, of emergency policies, of programs like Reallotgem, which can have a lot of good intentions, but what happens is that they don't stop being transfers of public money to private hands. Please, ja, fem..., we're structurally attacking the problem. And to tackle structurally the problem we have to change the territorial and urban legislation that leaves behind an idea, and the idea is that the territory is a good market or that housing is a good market. It's hard for me because you in your intervention have precisely reiterated the idea that housing is a good thing for the market, and at the same time he said to us: "But it is true that there have been some changes and we have to hear the different thing. So, either we switch from the zero-minute paradigm or we won't get out of it. And I can't build, I can decrease, and I can't contain. Therefore, we also demand that actions such as strategic residential areas that are a fan of the Prat de Llobregat, which affect agricultural areas with high values at the level of flora and fauna, be left behind, because they are also a fan of these actions by taking the song of "because VPO, and they are, in the background, an excuse to deprave more territories. We also need to adopt these macro urban master plans that deprecate territories and that seek only tourist, recreational and logistic purposes. Why are we betting on the CUP? So for a public park of powerful habitats that we don't have today. A powerful park of habitats as the Law of 2007, this law for the habitat that will cost so much time of iron, said it was an important mandate. That was 2007. We're in 2021 and we still don't have this powerful housing park. And Mr. Puignero said: "No, this is a country thing, we don't have to blow. Listen, it's just that here, it's lucky that there are people who blow. As a result, social movements are blowing, because, if not, it is not doing anything and it is a priority for this neoliberal agenda that has very clear things, that is, when nothing is done, the market acts, and if the market always acts for the benefit of itself. Today, the public park of the Generalitat in housing matter is of 24,000 housings: 18,000 that made the Incasòl and the others that come from ceded floors. And these numbers are clearly insufficient. And why do we need a bigger public park? Because we understand that this is the way to stop the price escalation. If we have a powerful public park, we can lower prices. And I repeat: to make this powerful public park we don't have to build more, what it is that we spend all these portfolios of real estate that are in Sicavs, in Socimis, in reverse, that we recover them and carry them to this public park. As well as these touristic floors that have outgrown the cities in an uncontrolled way is paralitzin. There can be no touristic floors if we have not previously solved the problems in housing themes. And why should we rehabilitate and not build? So why is the residential park very wrapped up and most, 80 percent of the park, has energy qualifications with the most painful letters. So we have to spend a lot of money on rehabilitation. And now, from the European funds, a lot of money will go down; they say that 5,800_million euros to be distributed among the autonomous communities. We know that there was a meeting, it seems to be, between autonomous communities and that in Catalonia we already have this jifra that maybe touches us. It seemed to me that you said it would be 600 million euros, I don't know if I understood. In any case, they allow us to transfer them to our network so that these moneys again..., because it is already a constant: rescue from the bank, Sareb... We have why these moneys again vagin to the usual, and that precisely these moneys for rehabilitation serve to fix and make an inn every day of the entire package of motionless funds. It also needs to be rehabilitated to build CO2, 40_percent of winter-effect gases, and we can't afford to release more of all these gases. Therefore, we change logically, we do not live there where we think there will be more valuable, but we do it through territorial policies, through sectoral plans, to which the commons also refer. We also have to make our own law of the soil. We need to set up ourselves, exercise sovereignty and set up our right of ownership, make a good resolution of the planning of the territory and urbanism. Also make a Catalan mortgage law own, why not? And begin to consolidate a legislative agenda that is powerful.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.85.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. To answer the words of the Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, Mr. Jordi Puigneró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.86.0	Well, thank you, President. Mrs Vinyets, the truth is that she would almost fully subscribe to the first part of her intervention and, therefore, I am happy about this, because I am sure that we will move forward in order to exercise sovereignty. And it's true, huh? Without the tools to be able to exercise sovereignty, it is very difficult to be able to implement in housing policies, but many other policies that affect in the day-to-day life of the citizenry; but it is true that housing policies are very important and that we believe that since the government can address this legislature in an important way. Habitating, therefore, is a strategic issue that requires the participation of all and requires a lot of consensus. Miri, I, who come from the municipalist world, and I understand that your spokesman, Mrs Sabater, who was the mayor of an important city of our country, we are very aware of the reality that is lived in the municipal areas, and therefore of the needs that there is, social, behind the habitation. And when I spoke earlier this morning, in the question of the commons, that we should not blow, to which I referred is that in order to reach consensus, to reach, say, a position that we can all agree, to avoid, therefore, party battles, to try to appropriate, eh? From different visions of how to solve this issue, which we all have in mind is a problem that we have in our country, as we can do..., with the relevant ones, obviously, generous renunciations that we will have to make each of us, that from different visions we want to solve this problem that many of our municipalities suffer, as may be the case with Badalona or could be the case with my municipality. Entering the subject, for this reason: look, without money there can be no public policies of housing, and therefore this coincides with you that this legislature is supposedly known, in the approval of assumptions, this will. And concretely, in this sense, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya and Juntes per Catalunya have an agreement of government in which we have been very clear, in the sense that we want to gradually increase the housing assumptions up to 1,000_million euros, during this legislature. It's a sifra that's gonna take a lot of effort, that maybe... let's hope it does, but it's gonna cost, huh? , to find it in the first proposal of presupposition; but we have conjured ourselves to do so in this legislature. I am also convinced that part of your group – and you concretely, if you carry habitat – will subdue us to the relevant scrutiny in order to complete this so explicit compromise. And we also take this challenge with an objective ambition perspective, because we think that if we don't put ambitious, high-end plots into it, we can end up with a lot left behind, and, therefore, the housing policies of this country can't be allowed. And that's not just about housing policies, is it? And, therefore, I would also encourage them to open up this ambition to other policies that can also help to alleviate this problem of housing in our country. Before... this morning I also commented on this in the inquiry with the commons, that they are political, for example, to deal with the depopulation and, therefore, to drain the population of our country into the territory itself. There are policies, in the field of infrastructure, that can also help us in this proposal and to draw a lot of pressure on the prices, in this case in the metropolitan area, and in concrete Barcelona. One of them, for example, is investment in optical fibre infrastructure, which allows teletreball to make a lot of people can choose professionally to live in other places in the territory. Obviously – and you have commented – we can't cheat on the issue of finance alone. This is an object threatened by the endemic and enquired government of Catalonia. Beyond the effects of the fiscal deficit on the public policies of the Government of Catalonia and on the quality of life of Catalans and Catalans, in this case we suffer from the usual evil, and it is that the programs that the State has designed, and often imposed, to deploy sectoral policies, are often poorly designed and poorly financed. For example, we find that the State Housing Plan has seen 50 per cent of imports destined, in this case, to housing programmes, with the added difficulty of incorporating, in this sense, more actions in these programmes, and that, therefore, with less resources and more actions, the effect that these policies have are smaller. A_second very important element, obviously, and I think that this is no longer a planning element in the medium-long term, but above all the imminent approach, is the issue of denunciations; if there is one topic that worries us in the short term, it is this. I think they'll agree with me if I tell them to cool down the denunciations of vulnerable families by big condescendants. To do this, in the past legislature we will approve the Decree Law 17/2019, which reinforced the compulsory social logger, and the application of this rule has served to avoid numerous denunciations, bringing them back to a social logger for the family or for families with accredited vulnerability. Now, once again, we have come across the barrier of Madrid's powers; in this case with the political instrument, which is the People's Party, and the executing arm that the Constitutional Court has become. We have a part of the decree 17/2019 suspès, which precisely reinforced the social logger binding already provided for in the regulations 2015 and 16. The result of this indefinacy..., indefensity – pardon – with which the PP and the Constitutional Court have placed the citizens of Catalonia in a situation of vulnerability, at these times they cannot make or are not making new proposals for compulsory social loguer. And what's worse: we have four thousand girls, during the duration of the decree, whom the great lords do not just deal with, employed in the suspension of the norm. And it is at this point where they are also asked why they help us to achieve the objective, that it is nothing more than to recover the level of protection to vulnerable families that this decree offered, reinforcing the legal strength of the rule to avoid any risk of appeal or sanction. This could involve renunciations of initial submissions by all, but we have to understand that these renunciations will be in the service of a higher objective, which is, and must be, to count on a new tool that can be dropped by any court. Obviously, the wish is that we should not pass through here and that we have the tools, as you very well have said, of sovereignty in order to exercise, from this Parliament, without protections. Finally, I also did not speak to the previous question – I want to refer to the concrete case of the housing working group, which was the first government agreement that we approved in this legislature and which, ultimately, places the focus on different departments, because we understand that the right to housing is a cross-cutting right that must be placed in the framework of different departments, and that a denunciation sun is already in itself a fraction of the system. Finally... you also spoke about the inadequacy of the social housing park. Evidently, I also explained this at the first hour of the morning: the lack of public park has been a difficult reality to combat since the economic crisis of 2008, which has had a brutal impact on the construction sector and on the health of public finances in the following years, which we are still watering and the pandemic has worsened. Even so, we have grown up in the public park of the Generality and have already surpassed the twenty thousand habitats, with about two per cent of social housing park, which, however, is still far from the middle of the 11th century of Europe, but with a sustained growth that responds to a firm desire to reverse an inherited situation and the consequence of the years of decades of a housing policy already made from Francoism and in the first years of democracy in which it strives to finance the purchase of housing in place of promoting protected housing from logue, as is the case in Germany, Austria, France or Great Britain. But, despite the difficult context since the end of 2015, we have approved the decree that enables us to exercise the right to hold and withdraw on housing from mortgages. With just over five years, the Generalitat has already acquired 3,177 dwellings per import of 168_million euros, some of them also in the city of Barcelona. Therefore, the government's commitment is to continue with this bet, with this concrete policy of tanteig and retraction. But it's true we can't stay here. There are other aspects that can become important if there is the necessary willingness on the part of the agents involved. In the first place, the Government of the Generalitat reiterates that it is necessary for the Sareb to give its residential heritage to the Generalitat so that it can be allocated to social loguer. And secondly, the financial entities that have real estate assets, precisely the result of the bank bailout and in the wake of an economic crisis that has led to the loss of housing for many families, must also assume more responsibility in addressing this problem. And, in any case, I will try to answer the rest of the questions that have been raised to me. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.87.0	Thank you, Counselor. Now there's a five-minute replica turn on Congresswoman Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.88.0	Well, thank you for the answer, Counselor. I would also like to say to him that, in this framework of this legislative agenda that we are about to incur in this parliamentary term, there is a law that is extremely important and that we are lucky that it seems that there has already been a codification process that has been working, there is already a text proposal that we have not yet seen, but we believe that it has been approached since the zero minute, and that this Parliament has to dictate its own urban lease law. Our legislation has ended up being based on the LAU that we have in force in the Spanish State, the LAU of 94. We must exercise sovereignty and make our own law. A law which is pronounced on income, a law which is pronounced on the temporality of contracts and which takes examples of countries around us where contracts do not have these temporary terms as short as we now have – which is known as "involved charges"; that it is not for the people to deny it, but they simply have to give up the contracts because it is finished and, therefore, they have to change their boundaries – and that it is for the tenants of the contracts that those entities, those legal persons who have as their social object to speculate with the right to housing. We have to make these people not be able to dedicate themselves to this business. And we'll bet on this kind of legislation. And as a result of the intervention that took place before my occupation, I would like to make some reflections. Look, the occupation is not a business, it's a self-guard of rights. When the Administration, when those who are called upon to do their job, to guarantee rights, do not do so, the people have to self-governance and protect the rights because they find neither in the Administration nor in the judiciary that is called upon to protect their rights. Because of her, they don't. There are international treaties that recognize the right to property, not with the limitations that the Spanish legal order, the Spanish Constitution, has, but that make a luckily much wider reading. But even if these documents exist, they are not used by the courts. People have no choice but to protect their rights. And if we have to talk, in some way, about the business of the occupation, I can tell you that, well, the trade is the fan of the express relocation companies that act on the margin of legality. The trade is the fan of those companies that, with these songs of sirens that you make of insecurity, of violence – that this is absolutely non-existent–..., with this trade, with these songs, you generate feelings that are unreal and what they do is that now the banking entities already, definitely, cease to be banks and boxes and are dedicated to the trade of the sale of alarms, which is what is happening today. You go to a bank and you can buy an alarm, but you have all the difficulties of the world to get out. And those who are also busy – let's say it, somehow, so –..., it's the Sareb. Worry about Sareb. There are some gentlemen who happen to have..., we have to eat in the public domain a debt of 34,000_million euros and continue to hold at their hands a public park of habitats without any kind of justification and without any kind of legitimation. Therefore, if we have to let someone pass his hands, to pass his strength, his action from somewhere, is to the Sareb. What do you do, please, to return all the immobiles you have illegitimately in your balance sheets so that we will transfer them to the housing offices that are escaped throughout this country, that have technicians who every day make hands and hands to find individual solutions to the people they care about, and that they will certainly give a way out to these floors, obviously much better than the lack of way out that they have done. Because we remember that this entity in 2020 has to be made an ad hoc law to save it from failure, because this company is failing. But the Council of Ministers makes a law to prevent it from failing, as do the companies that are in its situation. So, here, you've been negotiating. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.89.0	Thank you. Now, in reply, the words of the Vice President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, Mr. Jordi Puigneró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.90.0	Yes; thank you very much, Mrs Vinyets, Member of Parliament. Maybe this morning or I didn't explain it well or I didn't understand it well. I specifically said that precisely from my group and from the Government, therefore, we clearly consider the right to housing to be a social right. I say this for a few statements that Minister Ábalos made at the time, and that's why he referred to it, it was said that housing was a commodity. My opinion is that housing, in short, first is a social right and, obviously, a guarantee of this social right, is a good thing for the market. And with this philosophy we will act, at least from my group and also from the government. But, said that..., and you did not do it either, and you also insinuated to me this morning on behalf of Mrs Segovia, respect the councillor, huh? As we were organized at the councilhouse, he respected the name and also the skills he had. Counselling is the Digital and Territorial Policy Counselling. So, obviously, the whole share of infrastructure, mobility, urbanism, and here too, the whole issue of housing policies was included. I want to inform them – and therefore announce it, and therefore I also respond to the insinuation made to me this morning – is that after discussions that we have kept these last days – and this has already been a debate that we have also had intensely on the part of our group and also jointly, in this case, with the President of the Generality – they are precisely attentive to the fact that the priority of housing policy must be focused from the social perspective and, therefore, with a social right, the competence on housing policies will be led, in the restructuring that we will do in the framework decree, for the advice of Social Rights. Obviously, we're not getting away from it. This is a will, obviously, of the whole government, it is a priority of the government, and it has implications in the field of the Interior, in the field of Justice, also in the field of the obviously urbanistic. And this is a debate that we have made after talking to the councilwoman, that also had this interest, and that we do nothing more than what the Barcelona Assembly has done in this sense, that clearly the housing policy, therefore, is led from the social sphere of the Assembly. Therefore, in order to finish my intervention, obviously, the housing policy will continue to feel and is a priority of this Government, and will be in this sense led, in this case, by Councillor Violant Cervera, of the scope of Social Rights, but with all the recovery and all the will that it is a cross-cutting policy of the Government, focused from this perspective, bearing in mind that, lastly, this closes and touches on areas such as the Interior, touches on areas such as Justice, and also clearly from the perspective of territorial policy, therefore, all the support that this is a priority, as it has been reflected in the agreement of government that we have with the Republican Left, there is clearly this area that has more lines and more pages dedicated to being a policy in important. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.91.0	Well, so we've come up after the points of the order of the day that will be the Pleth of the thirtieth legislature, because with the exercise of historical memory that we did yesterday, the very Pleth will be formally the Pleth of the fourteenth legislature. Before raising the session, however, I would like to thank you and naturally wish you luck and uncertainty to all the companies that leave Parliament to take back the government. Vice-President Anna Caula was welcomed from the chamber yesterday; she also left the files of Esquerra Republicana the deputy Sergi Sabrià, and also the deputy Teresa Pallarès and the deputy Eusebi Campdepadrós. Therefore, we wish them all luck and certainty, while giving them thanks for the work they have done. [[Eusebi Campdepadrós and Pucurull comedy words]] And the deputy and secretary of the Bureau in the previous parliamentary term, Eusebi Campdepadrós, asked me to use the word to be allowed to take the plenary, and has the word for two minutes. Forward. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.92.0	Thank you. Many thanks, very honourable President, members of the Bureau, Vice-President of the Government, Members and Members. Obviously, unexpectedly, therefore, I will leave the hemisphere to take on responsibilities of government in the field of justice, which is mine, and where, indeed, there is a great deal missing in this country. I am grateful for the privilege and honour of having been able to represent the people of Catalonia, for the invitation extended to me by the very honorable President Puigdemont; very grateful to all the members of the parliamentary group, encapsulated by Albert Batet, but also very grateful to all the other Members whom I have also had the privilege and honour to treat, and with whom we have also done positive things for the country. Many thanks also to all the servants of the chamber, encapsulated by the secretary general, the Mr. Wall, to the literate, obviously to the linguistic servants, all the informatic servants, obviously to the uixers, this is the discreet nerve, but that makes the chamber work. Thank you very much for what we have been able to arrange for the members of the Bureau. And very much thanks also to the journalists who patiently followed the tasks of this chamber, which, precisely, as we had more recently forbidden to talk to them, was very interesting to do so. I, in honor of the president, would like to make a non-literary appointment, but yes historical parliamentary legal, and it is the way in which the Parliament, with which the Catalan Courts reassembled the Count of Barcelona when the Courts began. And he said, "We, who are worth so much to you, swear before you that I am no better than we, who are worth more than you, and who accept you as it will always be, and when you have respected our freedoms and read, but if not, do not. This is the hope that has always inspired this nation: laws are accepted as covenants, but not imposed. We agree to treat as equals and we want to treat as equals and not as subjects. And the only one we want is to be a freer nation among the freer nations. Dirty the earth! [[Crits of: "Visca! The applause strong and the perlongats.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-03-0702.93.0	So now let's raise the session. Thank you very much.
