ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-16-2003.1.0	Good morning, let's resume the session in the order of the day. [[Ask the Government about the search and transfer of knowledge as key axes of the knowledge society]] [[300-00093/13]] The Government's inquiry into the search and transfer of knowledge as key axes of the knowledge society. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, she has the word to make the presentation of the inquiry Mrs Anna Erra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-16-2003.2.0	Very good morning to everyone. Thank you, President. He will advise, deputies, deputies who will take you in the morning to hear a great theme, which is that of the universities..., I thank, therefore, all those who today have not made the effort. Constellera Geis, Catalonia is a country rich in talent and knowledge. Many men and women are compromised with scientific research and even in all camps, to make – as we know – a better society. Today, now that we're talking about universities, I'd also like to raise the profile... you can't take all the news, not all the good news, but I would like to raise the profile of three news that have recently come out, that have been linked to the search. A few days ago, five Catalan researchers returned funding from the European Research Council, after being chosen in the Advanced Grants 2020. It was also recently released that Catalan researchers found one of the world's best treatments against breast cancer. And it's also very fortunate that new Catalan researchers, from the different centres of ICO, have been included in the Stanford report, which includes the most cited scientists, with the greatest impact on a global scale. All this, before all these good news, is simply a small example of the wealth we have here in Catalonia, we know that research is key to the country and, you know that. For this reason, at the beginning of November he appeared on the committee of this chamber to present an ambition project of assumptions for the new Research and University consultancy, and with a match for the search policies of 292_million euros. It has to be said that this means an increase of forty-three per cent and almost 90 million additional. It is only with this in mind that a specific consultancy is needed for Catalan universities and for Catalonia's scientific research system. The architecture of the Catalan research has great country initiatives, and we will soon have a link between all of them, and we know that this will do the project we have at the point of the law of science. A law that will serve as an instrument of leadership and coordination of the country with a strong foundation, built from the National Pact for the Society of Knowledge, that guarantees, first, a political and social consensus, but also economic, with more than a ninety-new_percent of peppers, with the objective of reaching 2,2_percent of GDP in a period of five years. The aim is, therefore, to make the search a vertebral element of the country to advance everyone to a swift, social and territorial level, and to bet decisively on innovation and knowledge transfer. Because it is from research that we can make progress like society to aspire to live better, with greater prosperity and well-being for everyone. Because we conceive of research as a tool for the economy of added value, development and innovation, and that generates this wealth and quality occupation in the Catalan territory and generates a better welfare. We have the duty to transmit to society all this knowledge that we generate, now, this task we cannot do only from the Generality. For this reason, it is an integral strategy of generation, transfer and application of knowledge that allows effective collaboration between university and research institutions, with private enterprises and initiative. For example, now that we're living what covid-19 is, all this has shown us. Thanks to the search he was able to take a quick, very quick, to attack this pandemic, because in question of months we have been able to get a vaccine that has helped us save hundreds of lives. All this leads us to the fact that the Catalan research needs good funding to continue making advances, and the National Pact for the Knowledge Society establishes the need to implement a stable financing policy; stable for research, with specific objectives to make it possible. Who are they? The compromise above all is translated into resources and measures to promote the excellence of our search centers as the Search, or either continuing to develop infrastructures like the Alba synchro, the Marenostrum 5, at the Barcelona Supercomputation Center, or the Genomic Analysis Center. Now, a recent and very good example of this is the Advanced Technology Investment Fund, the well-known FITA, which you presented this same week. A fund of risk capital, public and private, designed to help research discoveries have, above all, application to society and to boost scientific entrepreneurship. But in Catalonia, the sixty-one research centres, the thirty-three science and technology parks, the more than thirty-thousand researchers we have in Catalonia, occupy the fifth position of the European search engine, be the most attractive territory in southern Europe in investments and generate more scientific production per inhabitant, all these elements recognize the potential we are as a country. And taking the words said by Tremosa, we are clear that Catalonia is a natural scientific power, a driving force for innovation. With all this it is obvious, therefore, counsel, that we need to strengthen the search system of Catalonia, strengthen it, muscle it, make it more dynamic. For this reason, all this must be a strategic bet of this government and this legislature, because without innovation there is no transformation, and this requires more resources. We understand that strengthening Catalonia's university research system is one of the priority objectives of its department, because we have clear that investing in research and development generates wealth, since any reversal in this sense is betting for a better future, giving more opportunities, more welfare and more social cohesion. And we want to make clear our commitment to the knowledge sector of Catalonia. You've proven yourself with the presupposition, haven't you? We have already said that we should present a historical growth to Parliament. Now, it's very important to ask the State a little more to comply with its obligations, this time, in terms of research. And, therefore, it improves in financing while not passing on the skills, because we do not forget that Article 158 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia specifies the exclusive competence of the Generality in research, development and technological innovation. The Catalan research, however, has great reptes, and, apart from global reptes as can be the gender equality, in other specifics, such as retention of talent, generational replete, or the transfer of knowledge and its impact to society. We know that you have been asked all these questions, and we have noticed how these policies have been placed at the centre of the policy debate since this advice. And his approach depends, to a good extent, on better funding. For this reason, counsel, today the inquiry into this question. What is your view on the funding of Catalan research and its relationship to the transfer of knowledge? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-16-2003.3.0	To answer, the word has the Research and University Advisor, Ms Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-16-2003.4.0	Good morning, President. Counsel, MPs, MPs; also the Director General of Research, Joan Gómez Pallarès, and the Director General of Transference, in Xavier Aldeguer ; thank you very much for accompanying us today and so start this Ple speaking of research, universities and transference. When we talk about... and listening to the considerations, the positions of Congresswoman Erra, of the mayor of Vic, I think she defines very well who we are as the country. And the country that we are is a country where talent and knowledge are basic pillars. At this stage, at this new government, we have all decided together – because we have all come out of this policy – to strengthen the search, to strengthen the country's knowledge through the birth of a specific council. And, therefore, to pose and emphasize even more this bet of the country, than the research is in the center, the knowledge is in the center. And that proved to be true. Beyond a councillor, a councillor per se has no meaning if it is not accompanied by a presuppostarial increment. And this has been the reality, a reality that is seen in fact and not only with words, because, in these assumptions by 2022, as you indicated very well, the growth of the Research Department and Universities experiences a fourteen_per_cent growth. And, therefore, it allows us to clear political differences in the line that you expressed, of the generational relay, of the retention of talent, to bet for a better transfer of knowledge. And specifically he wanted to highlight, also this week we are, that the growth of the specific search policies in this department surpasses with crere a forty-three_per_cent of presuppostarial increase. Therefore, I believe that this was also a societal demand, because the pandemic has demonstrated the importance of research. Therefore, he also wanted to put in context this presuppositionary increase and the government's effort. But why does Catalonia have to bet on research? Why does Catalonia have to bet on knowledge? Look, this weekend there was a column in a diary of the professor of social economy of Tecnocampus, Eloi Serrano, who said: "Without innovation, there is no recovery. And it seemed to me a lot of adjunct for as long as we are. That is to say, if we want to recover the country, this recovery of the country has to pass, too, through the best of innovation. And this innovation has allowed us, so we can also get much faster out of this pandemic. We haven't been vaccinated in a year. A year ago we weren't vaccinated and we were all waiting for the vaccination term to open. And today, the army of this country can begin to vaccinate. Therefore, this has been possible thanks to research, thanks to knowledge, thanks to innovation. And why science, research, knowledge, play this key role in this country? So because research is a country structure, it's a state structure, we need to empower it. Because it allows us to boost this economic recovery and because it allows us to face these global challenges much better. But, in the end, why are researchers and researchers in the country doing research? Why are they doing research? To influence people's lives, to influence progress, to influence welfare. Which global reps do we have in society and which are in the country's search – because I'm close to thinking about fifteen or twenty years old, not three or four years old, but fifteen or twenty years old – what are the global reps that society has and that it has the search? So, basically, we could talk about the European xip– and when you talk to the specialists, not any xip, but the very concrete type of xip – artificial intelligence; research, especially health research, mental health research, according to the country's situation; cybersecurity – a country that is digital needs to strengthen research policies, research also in cybersecurity –; quantum; photonics, like new energy technology; architecture and urbanism. We have seen how the pandemic has impacted our cities, our barrels, social cohesion, how good urbanism impacts... more, more, in the country we live in, with so many good urbanists... And, therefore, architecture and urbanism we also need to empower them especially. And new agriculture, all the trends of new agriculture, protein, etc. So these are, roughly speaking, what are the lines of global reptes that society has and what research needs to affect. And, in addition, we are fortunate in this country, because these global search lines, of these global reptes, are accompanied by research power and excellent groups in this area. So, we find ourselves, on one side, global reptes, and for the other investigative power in the country, and I think this was the time to push it also from the presuppositional point of view. We have the law of science that is also advancing very quickly, but it is that I have always said, the search is the best contingency plan. Now, the research has an inescapable relationship with the universities. Why? So when we invest and increase university funding, we are automatically increasing university research funding. And we have said this: this 2022 assumption includes 292 million euros for the financing of research, which accounts for forty-three per cent of the budget increase. That is to say, of the 203_million euros of the year 2020 we go to 292_millions. So 89 million more. There is also an increase in the funding of the Cerca centres, from €75 million to €89 million by 2022. And especially we're closing the call to the SGR. The SGRs are the call for support to university research groups. Anyone who is a university student knows the impact of this call, because, besides, here we have different disciplines, it impacts a lot in the field of humanities and social sciences. It's the call that's running all the college research groups. So, this call, which we will also publish with a gender perspective, because we need to increase the presence of women researchers and their leadership in the country..., in this very important call for research we move from 23_million euros of the year 2017 to 39_million euros this 2022. That is to say, 16_million euros more than the basic research call, the charge of all research groups in the field of humanities, social sciences, to which we also want to give importance, because they are also important in this sense. Therefore, I think we have a good opportunity for the country to enhance all of this. But it is that, besides, when I said that the connection between research and universities is insecure, therefore, the funding of universities also increases by 21_million euros. Therefore, it is impossible to dissociate research universities, and therefore, if we increase the university assumption we are increasing the research assumption as well. To me, this week, an interview took place – I suppose, along with many members of the scientific community, who sent me messages – of Minister Castells, who said that his priority was not research. Whatever we've been to the university, we know that when you do research, it automatically has an impact on the best of the teaching quality, because you can pass on to your students the latest trends, the latest publications, which are the problems. So I think it's absolutely compatible, and it has to be compatible, bet for research, but also bet – and that's what we do with this increase – for teaching quality. I think it's absolutely compatible, and it seems to me that it's an absolutely sterile debate, and more so, that the university world actually didn't hear it. And besides, another question, which we also knew about the Ara newspaper. The only European patent is a demand from everyone who has ever had to apply for a patent; they know how difficult it is to apply for a patent. We only need to see the specific advice in the field of asking for patents, which we have in the country, right? Therefore, it is a very excluded, very specific environment. And what had always been... there was a demand to unify and simplify the bureaucracy with the single European patent. Therefore, I do not understand..., I do not understand how Catalonia must renounce the single European patent for a question of language – for a question of language. We have to defend all languages, and Catalonia has to bet and bet on the single European patent, because we look to Europe and want to simplify and eliminate bureaucracy, and therefore this single European patent allows us to improve our competitiveness as a country, and therefore we do not understand this position that warned the ministries through the Ara diary. Besides, we want to boost the transfer, because, this is another... : we can bet a lot on the search, but the search has to revert to the society. Each researcher, when choosing a research topic, a discussion, does so because he has a scientific commitment to that research, and this research has to reach society, and therefore we need to improve the transfer to society. Because this transfer of the search can increase or modify public policies, can modify, for example, suicide protocols, can modify prediction of fire behaviors, can suppose the discovery of new materials. And, therefore, this research we must bring to society, to public policy, to the business sector of the country. In this sense, this is why we created the General Directorate of Transfer. There is a phrase, which also reminded me of the Director General of Research, Bertrand Russell, who said: "Science must always be the basis of any knowledge it wants to transmit, and therefore I believe that we must make this double key back, to bet on the transfer of research, in this sense, from the country. And how did we do it? With the FITA fonts. The FITA funds were presented this week – they were working hard for a long time – but it will not be the last or first of the initiatives we will be making in transfer. The FITA foundation that matters is this public leadership – public leadership – in the birth of spin-off entrepreneurs in the field of research, technology and health research. And so it seems to me very important at this point in the country that we have all defended the need to strengthen public services, that the Government of the Generality lead the reversal – lead the reversal – in creating capital foundations so that we may need spin-offs in the field of research and technology, and that this is leaders from the Government of the Generality. I, finally – and finally, president – this week is the week of La Marató, and La Marató this year has this function of breaking walls, breaking stigma. And allow me two seconds. As Research and University Advisor, I know what it's like to lose a person by suicide, and I know that it's a very complicated situation, and therefore this will to break the stigma, to try to break this wall in the field of mental health, and I hope that this presuppositionary increase can also help us in this reality that we have, also, this country's emotional pandemic, we have all the attention from politics and politics, that at the end we are people and all have very different situations that we have experienced in life. So, thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-16-2003.5.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about health and primary care (postpossessed)]] [[300-00087/13]] The eighth item on the agenda, in agreement with the parliamentary group and the Councillor, will not be substanceized in this plenary session and will be adjourned for the next plenary session. [[Asking the Government about policies to encourage birth and address the demographic winter]] [[300-00088/13]] Therefore, we will pass the new item on the agenda, the question to the Government on policies to encourage birth and to address the demographic winter, which the Parliamentary Group of VOX has presented. He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Monica Lora.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-16-2003.6.0	Well, thank you, Madam President. Deputies, well, I want to start this inquiry by mentioning four news stories. The first one is from 3/24, Catalan public television, in September 2019: « Birth rate falls by thirty_percent in ten years and is the lowest since 2001. The reduction in birth rate is also more pronounced among women with Spanish nationality. Birth among foreign mothers increases. Second news, from Born digital April 2021: « 2020 leaves the lowest birth rate of the last twenty-five years in Catalonia. Third news, from the ABC newspaper of May 2018: "Polish conservatives manage to raise the birthplace of the country. Fourth news, from the ABC newspaper of July 2020: "The magic formula with which Hungary has managed to increase birth and reduce divorces. Four news, same theme, similar dates and different territories and morals. The first moral is that, no matter how much one ignores and denies a problem, it continues to exist and also gets worse, because ignoring a problem takes us away precisely from the solution. And that is that in Spain and Catalonia we have an emergency and demographic hell. I repeat: emergency and demographic hell. The second moral is that when you have governments that care about the real problems of families, the situation of people begins to improve and society is filled with hope, light and future. And it is that the responsibility of public institutions is to avoid demographic suicide, and that is why we ask the Government of the Generalitat to avoid suicide in Catalonia. The third moral is that a problem cannot be solved by thinking exactly the same way as when it was created. And we have good news, as you have shown a profound futility and bad faith in the subject that concerns us today. And in this regard, we have two reference countries in public policy, in this regard, such as Poland and Hungary, and we believe that we should learn from them. And briefly they have a very simple formula: family and homeland. [[Some applause.]] Gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in VOX we are used to being alone when we talk about the real problems of Catalans, and we wonder if we will find ourselves in the same situation today. And it is that, in this sense, we are demonstrating the desire of a pyromaniac government that, far from worrying about the demographic winter that its harmful management, as a result of its sectarian ideology, has created and in which we are immersed, prefers to continue to revive the fire as it continues to implement anti-family policies and values. And many of those here will therefore wonder why demographic winter and low birth rate is a problem for Catalonia; or why VOX is concerned that few Catalan children are born; or why VOX presents an inquiry to promote policies to encourage birth rate in Catalonia. Well, because in VOX we are aware of the future that awaits us if we fail to reverse the demographic winter. And, look, Catalonia presented a Spanish mother's birth rate in 2020 of six births per thousand inhabitants, compared to seventeen births per foreign mother per thousand inhabitants. In addition, Catalonia had a fertility rate of 1.22, with foreign women being much more fertile than domestic women. And given that the population replacement rate is about 2.1 per woman, with the current birth rate and fertility rate, we are far from achieving that. In addition, Catalonia, unfortunately, registered in 2020 a total of 13.44 abortions per thousand women, well above the country's average, making Catalonia the region of Spain that has the most abortions. What are the future consequences of all this? With this data, the first consequence of the future if we do not reverse the demographic situation is the suicide, extinction and disappearance of Catalan society, and this is an objective fact. [[Widow's remorse.]] Because if we continue like this, ladies and gentlemen, we are going straight to extinction as Spaniards and Catalans. And I say extinction – yes, gentlemen – because Catalonia without Spanish is not Catalonia. And it is that we face two types of problems arising from replacement: first, that we are far from reaching the number of births that would be necessary to simply guarantee generational replacement, and second, we face a population replacement – and they have heard well: population replacement. Because it is more than obvious that if foreigners in our region have more children than indigenous citizens themselves, the latter will eventually become extinct. [[Widow's remorse.]] And that's a reality. And, in fact, the former Islamist leader Ossama bin Laden warned: "We will conquer Europe for the womb of our women. But what this terrorist did not imagine was that his allies in this matter would be, precisely, the governments of Western countries and regions such as the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia. And the second consequence is economic, and is that a territory with older people than young people is not socio-economically viable. And there is no economic growth without population growth. More people mean more people who can work and create wealth and a greater demand for consumer and durable goods. Less young people mean less creativity and entrepreneurship, since it is in young people that they are more willing to take risks. And it is that the lack of birth in the Catalan population implies an increasing state expenditure on health and pensions, increased fiscal pressure and stagnation of economic growth. That is why we believe that the ageing of the population must be closely linked to policies that encourage birth. I could then continue all day naming the different future consequences [[remorse of the voice]] of the demographic winter of Catalonia. And it's that the Spaniards have the right to survive as a nation. And Catalans have the right to survive as a fundamental part of the Spanish nation. And it's that their policies directly engage us in suicide and extinction. [[remorse of the eyes and laughs]] – yes, gentlemen, you have heard it well – as much as some Members are laughing, because we have a very black picture in Catalonia as regards birth. And, look, they're constantly telling us about environmental and future sustainability while paradoxically their anti-natalist policies and the culture of death cause life itself to be unsustainable. And in this sense, gentlemen of the government, we ask you to wake up, to react once and for all. And more. after this questioning and the overwhelming evidence of the situation we are in Catalonia today. And I deeply hope that you will be able to react to this situation, this emergency situation in which we find ourselves, because, unfortunately, the Government of the Generalitat has in its hands the future of Catalonia. And that's why we're asking you please... I beg you not to euthanize us. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-16-2003.7.0	To answer, the word has the councillor of Equality and Feminisms, Mrs. Tània Verge.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-16-2003.8.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... really, what evil do they have, huh? If Bin Laden appears in his troubles, it's normal for him to be ill-fated, but that doesn't directly translate with reality. There is neither Catalonia nor the world-wide, a scene of demographic decline. This apocalyptic future that you describe is simply not true. It makes a couple of months, in October, the Idescat, the Institute of Statistics of Catalonia, following the methodology of population projections used by the world, indicated that the number of inhabitants in Catalonia will continue to grow: from 7.9_millions the year 2025 will reach 8.4, 2040 and 8.7, 2070. These invented concepts of "demographic winter, "demographic hell, "demographic suicides have no scientific basis, they are pure ideology based on a confessional conception of human reproduction that preach religious phonementalist groups; the same phonementalist groups, for sure, that deny the theory of evolution or maintain that human beings coincided in time with dinosaurs. It is undeniable that human reproductive dynamics have changed, and they have made it very much for the duration of life, not for the volume of birth. When women in this country gave birth to four or five creatures the population did not believe any more, all the contrary: the life expectancy of the adult population was very low and the infant mortality rate was very high for the precariousness of health or food conditions or for the exploitation of child labour. Indeed, it is no mystery that the very time that the population continues to grow as they have fewer creatures, because it takes better care of them and takes better care of them. The change in reproductive trends has also greatly improved – it is not forgotten – the life of the half of humanity. Because women have been able to free themselves from biologic determinism. Nor is it oblivious that those times that enyoren presented taxes of maternal mortality. I can't tell them in any other way: their layout is retrograde and authoritarian; it's not based on real data, nor is it based on genuine interest in demography. His is a vision in which the reproduction of women is an instrument for the glory of a national, patriotic, misogynistic and xenophobic object, which were already promoted in the 20th century without success Hitler or Franco. As much as the weight, this government is committed to the human rights of women, and that means ensuring that women can decide in a free and responsible manner the name of the creatures they want to have, if they want to have them, and the interval with which they want to do so. Rights that are recognized to the conviction for the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women – and therefore integrates our legal framework –; rights, moreover, that have been developed in the action programme of the International Conference on Population and Development of United Nations in Cairo, in the Beijing Platform for Action approved at the Fourth World Conference on Women or in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. And for this reason we have approved a national strategy of sexual and reproductive rights, led by the Department of Equality and Feminism and in which there are eight more departments involved. We extend free access to long-term contraception and guarantee access to territorially fair adoration. At the same time, take note of the fact that we contemplate the best of assisted human reproduction services, with pairs or without meaning, with independence from sexual orientation or gender identity. And at the same time we also guarantee respect for the type of volgut, which includes respecting the decisions, the body, the salvation and the emotional processes of women. Unlike the parliamentary group that asks us, the Government of the Generality does not believe that the birth of the people is at its service; on the contrary: the Government is at the service of the needy and longings of the citizenry. You are fascinated with countries like Poland or Hungary, where the rights of women and LGBTI people are systematically violated, but if you climb more the streets of Catalonia and less the streets of Poland or Hungary know that the challenge in this matter is that people can hold the creatures when they want in the right conditions. Because it is widely demonstrated that the policies of secs nado or other punctual measures of this type do not increase birth rate, do not work. Families don't want these people to have more creatures but they want them to provide them - there's a better quality of life. If you want to talk about people's real problems apply the common sense, please. What marks the reproductive decisions of the population are, in one band, the working conditions– and we know that the women and the young people are overrepresented in the temporary, part-time and most precarious jobs–, and, in the other band, reproductive decisions are marked by access to a decent habitat or by the real possibilities to make the child compatible with work. And this is the common sense that we would apply from the government to public policies. And I'll give you some examples. In the field of work, the Department of Enterprise and Labour has approved a plan of work with an investment in active employment policies, which had not been done so far, with 917_million euros in orientation, training, training and employment promotion programmes, which will benefit 500,000 people, of which 112,000 young people and 263,000 women. Moreover, it will distribute 519 million direct help to autonomists and workers in ERTOs, placing the total investment 2021 in the 1,436 million euros. For its band, the Department of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda has set aside the Odisseu programme, which returns and places young people in rural employment, to avoid the depopulation of the rural environment. Access to housing is also essential because young people can emancipate themselves and start their vital projects, including the possibility to exercise motherhood or fatherhood. This is why measures have been established in the area of social rights, such as helping to pay for young people under the age of thirty-five, benefiting from the year 2020 more than two thousand people with nearly 19 million euros. Simultaneously, the reconciliation of work and family life is key at the time of deciding to have creatures. And we want to advance in the recognition of cures as a right of citizenship. In fact, we want to go beyond this term, "conciliation, to talk about co-responsibility, because the public authorities we have to assume the co-responsibility we have in providing the cures. And that's why from the Department of Equality and Feminisms we'll expand near-curriculum services for infants from zero to fourteen years with an inversion of more than 20_million euros by 2021, and the Department of Education, for its band, will implement the free education of zero-three years, starting the next school year with I2, and will bring the eighty_percent of the inversion to build new rural schools, and also increase the pressure to maintain existing ones. Finally, both in Catalonia and the rest of Europe, migratory flows will continue to contribute to population growth. That's what he was in the last century, and that's not a new phenomenon. That is why the Government will work tirelessly for an inclusive country, where no one is left behind and where racism and xenophobia are not fit, where there is no ‘us versus' the others, because the assembly of the Catalan people is the one that constitutes us in this shared life that we want for the country. For this reason we have begun to process the first anti-racism law in all its forms and expressions, because the present and future people of Catalonia deserve a country based on equity, access to rights, opportunities, resources and recognition of difference. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-16-2003.9.0	Then, in the turn of the line, has the word the deputy Monica Lora.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-16-2003.10.0	Thank you, Counselor. Well, of course the population will continue to grow, as you have said, counselor, but the immigration population will continue to grow. And that's your plan to reverse the demographic situation in Catalonia. And I stress the future consequences that I have already said in my first intervention of this inquiry: the replacement. Then we also find, Mrs Consellera, that there are other autonomous communities that have plans, precisely, for the promotion of birth; autonomous communities that govern parties that ideologically are very different from our political formation. What's going on? That these governments are fairies, too? Are these governments also fascist? [[Some applause.]] No, Madam Counsellor, because they are aware of the demographic challenge we face, which unfortunately is something that not only affects Catalonia. And it is true, we have a panorama in which, unfortunately, nothing but short-term thinking, pure survival is allowed; a scenario where to plant oneself, have children, some people panic, but the fact that you don't have those when it's what you want most in this world also panics. And it's that most young and not so young is not that they don't have children because they don't want to, but because they can't. And that's not what we say about VOX because we're very good at it, but that's precisely how the conclusions that emerge, for example, from a fertility survey carried out by the National Institute of Statistics, the INE, in 2019. In addition, we find that the age of motherhood continues with the tendency to delay and that on average women in Catalonia have the first child at 31.4 years of age. And it is clear that the later a woman, the later a couple has their first child, the less likely they will be to have more children. And you don't have to explain to them the terrible consequences that that entails. And that is where the institutions must be to accompany, to facilitate, to put in place the means and conditions necessary to enable families to be formed and to have the number of children they consider appropriate. When will we see family policies aimed at reviewing the downward trend of birth in Catalonia? Or when will we see, for example – because I believe, moreover, that it is time – an institutional communication campaign that gives positive treatment to marriage and the family? Yes, gentlemen, I have said'marriage. And it is that the defense of marriage is also fundamental to the incentive of birth. And look, ladies and gentlemen, the councilwoman is lying. Do you know how many times the words ‘birth, demographic challenge or ‘ motherhood' appear in the memory of budgetary programmes, in the sections of strategic objectives, in the draft budget law of the Generalitat de Catalunya for the coming year 2022? Zero-times the word birth, zero-times the phrase democratic challenge and zero-times the word motherhood. And do you know, however, how many times does the word feminism, gender perspective or climate change appear? In total, 123 times, gentlemen – 123 – is that these are the priorities of the Government of the Generalitat. And another issue that I want to denounce also at budgetary level is that the Generalitat, therefore, intends to spend EUR 10 million on a heading that aims to promote abortion, and not only that, but also to pursue those people who are willing to help those pregnant women who are in a vulnerable situation. And, in this sense, our proposals for the next plenary session with the motion that we are going to put forward will be embedded in three action blocks: one, in fiscal proposals to encourage birth; two, in measures of direct economic support; and three, measures of awareness and public-political awareness of the importance of the birth incentive. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-16-2003.11.0	It has the word, in the turn of reply, the councillor of Equality and Feminisms.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-16-2003.12.0	As it seems obvious that they fascinate fiction, I must remind them that this apocalyptic future that they are drawing is not even an original argument. He portrayed Margaret Atwood the year 1985 in her novel The maid's account. And for whom I have not read it or seen the series relatively recently, I summarize it in one sentence: Gilead's ruling class, as VOX did today, says defending freedom, motherhood and family, while resuming the women to be a belly to the servant of whom I told them before, of a national patriotic project, misogynist, LGBTI-phobic and xenophobic. And the message of resistance of the women raised in this novel is very clear: Nolite you bastards carborundor. To our obligation as a government, we will not allow any retreats on the right. And if they want to talk about freedom, motherhood and families, then we will. We're defending them, too. We defended freedom, of course, not a few freedom, the freedom of the rich who have financed their party, but the freedom to be and to be of everyone. And that goes to make sure... [[Some applause.]] This happens to ensure decent living conditions for all people, because they are free of the oppressions that prevent them from developing their own vital project. In other words, only with more equality can freedom be fully guaranteed. We also defended motherhood, and as long as we did. A non-imposed, voluminous motherhood, a respected motherhood, and for this reason, we talk about putting the cures in the center, because the public powers are responsible and because the same ones are not always, the women, who have to carry the cures to their spaces. And we defend the families, of course; more than you, in fact, because the Government defends all the families starting from the recognition of their diversity and ensuring their rights equally, from the families named to the single-parent families, which are in their single-mother majority, the families with the parents of the same genera, the families linked and regrouped, the foster and adoptive families or the families with special needs of dependent persons. And, therefore, we need to implement policies to reverse social and economic inequalities, which are preventing them – it is not so hard to hear – young women and men find work or access a habitation or end up with this precarious work that particularly affects women. That is to say, while you are continually preaching ideologies copied from time to time and from authoritarian countries or religious phonementalist groups, we are focusing on the real problems of the citizenry. In short, before his proposals for a return to an obscure past, ours is a proposal based on social transformation and feminist transformation. One hundred and twenty-three times, and what you want; it's very important to remember and to put it on this first page of government action. It is a way of presenting and future to the individual and collective freedom of women and of the group of people of this country. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-16-2003.13.0	Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the question to the government about the actions of the Department of Equality and Feminism in the matter of anti-racism. [[Question to the Government on the activities of the Department of Equality and Feminism in the field of anti-racism]] [[300-00095/13]] It is presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left and has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mrs Najat Driuech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-16-2003.14.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor, deputies, deputies. Well, last 10 December, with the International Day of Human Rights motivating, you, counsel, made a very important announcement to the Gypsy Cultural Centre of the Mine: Catalonia will have an anti-racist law, a law that will address the eradication of racism in all its expressions and forms. It has to be, without any kind of doubt, integral and to eradicate Islamophobia, anti-Egyptism, xenophobia and a long etcetera, from a cross-sectional point of view. Many people are going to ask if there is a law that is now needed to address this issue. We firmly believe that we do. Now just a year ago this chamber approved, with another social, political and unanimous consensus, the law of equal treatment and non-discrimination. In fact, the future anti-racist law has a precedent in this and it is that in its first final provision determines that the established legal requirements have a supplementary character to the specific legislation. Therefore, while the anti-racist law will be a specific law, the equality of treatment and non-discrimination will continue to be an indispensable tool, essential because it is the law of paradise. Only a few data: the number of racist crimes suffered by citizens has increased. Currently, according to the data of SOS Racism, between the eighty and the noranta_per_cent of these crimes remain invisible, on the margin. This evidence leads us to recognize another situation, and it is that for the majority of society, which does not suffer from any type of racism, for it is invisible, and against those who suffer from it are on the margins. Just last week, in the act of Cloenda del Diàleg for Interculturality, where you, counsel, and President Aragonès hi eren, Miguel Ángel Aguilar, prosecutor of the Servivei de Delictes d'Odi de Barcelona, explained that the company is more aware of the time to denounce attacks and homophobic attitudes, while we still have a lot of work to do. On the other hand, the denunciation of racist attitudes is not at the same level or the same degree of awareness of empowerment in order to be able to denounce. This is one more time, and it's a reality, because we have a lot of work left to do in this future. Nevertheless, the denunciation of racist attitudes is not at the same level. And why? Because the victims feel that reporting is useless, because the attacker has no conviction and, to the victim, does not repair it. We must have effective mechanisms to repair the damage caused and to repair the rights violated. It is essential to carry out a thorough and sincere analysis. And it's urgent to do so, because that's what many people live for. We celebrate, counselor, the anti-racist campaign that has begun its department, and that they want to raise awareness of our society about racism in our country. Nobody recognizes that it's racist, but how many people know that it bothers them that their children share classes with various students of origin. We talk about human rights, and as the anti-racist movement sea did in its day, Rosa Parks, we, counsel, have many reserved for human rights. We've got to put ourselves down now. From our point of view, the social sphere is one of the spheres that rules the future anti-racist law, it will advise. In the same way that we believe that education must be the foundation of the construction of egalitarian culture. Infants and young people should not be conditioned by adult connotations or stereotypes. Another area where racism moves freely is in institutions. Another interesting premise is that the report by the European Unified Left Group to the Equality and Non-Discrimination Committee, which notes a very uncertain reality in Europe: in a political scene characterized by the increase of racist and xenophobic movements, these erroneous concepts are used to be instrumental in triggering the division of society and sowing hatred for a political win. This type of discourse tends to spread from extremist movements to current political parties, which is why it is a serious fact, considering that intolerance and the promotion of poverty and coexistence should be the absolute priority on the part of all political forces in the political spectrum. This in Europe, but it is also a reality here. And here's a little bit of self-criticism. And it is, obviously, and it would be lacking in reality not to recognize it, that the administrations and institutions are permeated by structural racism that is so assumed that above to be invisible. There is a clear lack of capacity and willingness to identify the structural causes and racist motivations behind many of our practices. We have reached a point where there has been such a spread of racism that it has become normal. Here, all of us in the hemisphere, or almost all of us, most of the parliamentary arch, would agree that crimes of racist or xenophobic hate every time are more. We just need to look at the communication media. The society itself accepts that people discriminate against them because of their skin color, because of their cultural or ethnic origin, and this is a reality. Counsel, we need this law that you have announced comprehensively addressing racism in all its forms and expressions, as well as ensuring through public policies actions and mechanisms to control these policies, from the right to full enjoyment of the rights of people who have migrated or racialized. In short, in defense of human rights. The anti-racist struggle... as we fight from the execution of power, through this future law, but also here to the legislative power, in our case, to the Parliament of Catalonia, which as the institution representing the sovereign people will and as its protection and guarantee of human rights we cannot allow the speech of hatred or discrimination that is felt at plenary sessions, at commissions and at the different acts that organize under the umbrella of a political organization. That's why a few parliamentary groups from this chamber agreed and worked for an anti-feixist agreement, in order to claim a parliament committed to democracy, rights and diversity. We need to use Parliament's intervention space to fight hate speech and defend human rights, and to counter information that leads to direct or indirect discrimination and violation of human rights. Another way, Counselor, that we have already spoken with you, is the creation of the Commission for the Study of Institutional and Structural Racism, in which we will work to combat this racism as well. And finally, as public servants we have the duty and obligation to fight for people's civil rights, come from where they come, have the culture or ethnic origin that they have. We want to live in peace in a different society like the Catalan people. Martin Luther King said to his famous phrase that the oppressor never voluntarily grants freedom; it must be demanded for the oppressed. And I, Najat Driouch Ben Moussa, who always read me and follow me reading according to the stereotypes of migrated, oppressed, ignorant and a long woman, ask – and I think I speak in the name of many women and men who represent the mosaic of cultures that our country builds – that the process of elaboration of this law culminates and that it is a useful law to protect against racism, anti-gitism, Islamophobia and a long woman. In a democratic society, in a democratic country, racist and discriminatory attitudes and behaviours cannot be held up. We must commit society and all institutions to the fight against discrimination, rebreeding and hatred. We place the focus on the conducts that threaten our society; between all and all we face racism, we shield human rights, counsel. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-16-2003.15.0	To answer, has the word "Tània Verge", councillor of Igualtat and Feminismes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-16-2003.16.0	Thank you very much, President. They share a diagnosis, Congresswoman. Racism is not a one-time or ailing fact, it is a system of structural oppression that permeates all social, political or economic structures and generates arbitrary domination for many people by the fact that they are who they are. The racialization of sentient collections, it is said, the social construction of the race permeates it all with hierarchies of status and power: from the color of the skin, the phenotype, the origin, cultural traits, from the daily interactions to the labor relations, through the legislation or the composition of the institutions. And this racialization of sentient collections is the basis of prejudices, stereotypes, stigmas that give way to multiple daily discriminations: in the difficulties of getting a pee depending on the color of the skin, in the difficulties of accessing a job according to the surnames they have, or in the constant suspicion of someone with a concrete phenotype when entering a trade. The naturalization of racism to the public authorities was also expressed, as it was pointed out, in concrete terms, both in laws and in institutional practices that legitimize and perpetuate racist social structures and that result in the difficulty of accessing certain services, the public service, school segregation, identifications by ethnic profile or the lack of recognition of the contributions that racialized people have made to different areas of knowledge and culture. And, of course, all this impacts on the material conditions of people who consider themselves "the others, who suffer higher poverty taxes, higher job insecurity and lower wages, or a higher risk of suffering physical aggression with ethnic motivation. This injustice of recognition and the injustice of distribution of resources and opportunities also added a difficult lack of representation to all spheres, just to look at this same room. In this legislature, for example, racialized persons occupy, in the current legislature, less than five per cent of the seats. Thus, as reported in the "On Are the Dones" collection, racialized people represent less than one percent of the opinion space of Catalan media. It must be made manifest, as you also did, that racism does not only affect the people who are currently making migratory displacements. We can speak here, for example, of the Gypsy people, who have been systematically stigmatized, excluded and oppressed, and still often justified their systematic impoverishment with racist ideas, but, in reality, it is the result of historical processes of impoverishment, such as now laws prohibiting the transfer of property to the Gypsy people. The same goes for the racialized population that descends from recent migrations from colonized countries, on which it collects a racist imagination of cultural inferiority that justifies inequalities that in reality hold the origin in processes of espol, in processes of slavery that still mark the global north-south relations. Or in the case of racialized persons with certain religious beliefs, such as victims of Islamophobia, over whom we also see the history of expulsion and forced conversion in this country. Let us have it, therefore, quite clearly: it is not that with racism the quality of democracy is felt but that racism is a frontal attack on democracy and human rights. We need specific anti-racist policies, and we need the anti-racist perspective to be transversal with public policies. This has been, precisely, the framework for dealing with other structural operations, such as masculinism or LGTBI-fóbia, which has long had specific integral laws. We cannot pursue public policies which do not address the structural causes of racism and which do not guarantee the fair and equitable distribution of rights, obligations, responsibilities, opportunities and resources together with citizens from recognition and respect for difference. For this reason, last week the Department of Equality and Feminisms began the processing of the preliminary draft law against racism in all its forms, including anti-Egyptism, Islamophobia, xenophobia or any other form of racism, and in all its expressions, both structural, social and institutional. It is a proposal for the transformation of distributive injustices, recognition, including memory and repair, and representation in all spheres. Since the Department of Equality and Feminism we have already passed this way, as the fact of counting for the first time with a racialized woman of migrant origin and specialized in this field at the head of the Directorate General for Migration, Refugees and Anti-Racism. Also the person responsible for the deployment of the Agency of Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination is a gypsy woman with extended experience in the fight against discrimination. We are starting from the recognition of the essential task that so far racialized people and social entities have undertaken in the denunciation of racism and in the follow-up to victims of racism. One of the first steps in this process of the preliminary draft of the law, this same week, is the beginning of the public consultation, which will have two face-to-face modes: of one band, the telematic portal Participates, of the Generalitat de Catalunya, and from the month of generation, of another band, face-to-face finds throughout the country. There will be working groups at all ages – territorial groups, therefore – and then also sectoral groups or thematic groups to treat the different forms and expressions of specific racism, as well as what you also mentioned, the increase of racism with other axes of inequality such as masculinism, LGBTI-phobia or the social class. Simultaneously, the drafting of this preliminary draft law will be synchronized with the work of the Study Commission on Institutional and Structural Racism created for this Parliament, the result of the political compromise of the parties committed to democracy and human rights. In parallel, from the department we are actively working on the deployment of Law 19/20, equal treatment and non-discrimination, a very pioneering law, which will, in its own months, be concrete in various concrete actions such as the following: the creation of the body itself, the equal treatment and non-discrimination office, with the approval of our assumptions, because it is from here that we can provide it with economic resources and staff resources; the approval of the penal sanctioning rule also provides for this law, and the measures of mediation and reparation, in accordance with the conditions of discrimination; the posting of the text of the form, which will enable the citizen to report any situation of discrimination and, if the completion of the mediation and reparation measures is carried out in accordance with the general rules of procedure; the posting of the form of the form of the form of the form of the form of the application, which will enable the citizen to report any situation of institutional discriminationand , if the finalization of the practice of the practice of the practice of the practice of the practice of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of thedeclaration , of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of thedeclaration , of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedure of the procedureof Even more, the anti-racist and international perspective will be present in other programs and projects of the department as some I list further: the design of a macro-question on discrimination and hate crimes, because we need accurate data. You pointed out, we still lack a lot of information to make these dynamics of production and maintenance of racism more visible, more invisible, more naturalized, in social structures and in the same institutions, and in this way, to be able to design effective public policies to make it happen. Also awareness policies like this campaign that we started on 10th December, International Human Rights Day, which focused on the most natural attitudes, this "I don't know racist, but... that all of us still have a lot incorporated. The awareness and training strategy will also reach local and civil society with the aim of giving specific tools to address rumours and false news that often catalyze racist attitudes. There will also be training actions for prevention, reporting and monitoring of victims of hate crimes destined for locals, entities and citizens in general, starting in the first quarter of 2022. As such, you served as a legal adviser in the field of foreign affairs and accompanying racist incidents and hate crimes, in the framework of COSPE's financing. Funding, simultaneous projects to prevent racism and xenophobia through a specific line of the ordinary call for grants for entities. And, among other questions – as I said, there were only a few – financing local authorities for the prevention of racism by combining the role of civic and accumulating technicians and technicians, with the concrete aim of preventing racist behaviour by local administrations or by citizens, and also helping to detect and accompany victims of hate crimes. In short, the guarantee of human rights and non-discrimination is an essential element to make effective the feminist transformation with which this government has been committed, and the feminist transformation must be anti-racist. If I may, in the end, I would like to quickly paraphrase a quote from Bell Hooks, which he left us yesterday, saying that we need to imagine different realities to make possible the practice of this transformation and different realities. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-16-2003.17.0	Finished this point of the order of the day... [[Question to the Government on the guarantee of cultural rights (postponed)]] [[300-00089/13]] ...and in accordance with the request made to us by the Government and the Parliamentary Group of the Comú Possão, in addition to Article 160.6 of the Rules of Procedure, it appears that the question to the Government on the guarantee of cultural rights presented by this parliamentary group, which appears on the 11th item of the agenda, will not be substantiated at this plenary session and will be adjourned for the next plenary session. [[Interview with the Government on the impulse of mediation and alternative methods of conflict resolution]] [[300-00094/13]] So let's get to the top of the order of the day, which is the question to the government about the impulse of mediation and the alternative methods of conflict resolution, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Joan Carles Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-16-2003.18.0	Thank you, President. Consellera, MPs and MPs, said Montesquiu: "An injustice committed against an individual is a threat against a society. There have long been injustices against individuals in this country. Ideas cannot be disabled, the freedom cry of a society, neither. Therefore, all the gathering, Pau Juvillà, for the personal situation that you are painting. [[Some applause.]] That said, Counselor, let's get into the matter. The reparation measures applied in the field of Justice become obligations that rebuff when they are imposed in a coercive manner. By contrast, when these are voluntarily assumed they become a responsibility for those people who are committed to executing them. On the basis of this premise, the mediation is able to convey the protagonist of the resolution of the conflict to the citizen, placing in the center of the proceedings the real actors, since they are legally bound without having to attend the criminal and judicial proceedings. Mediation can also, in most cases, reach the root of the problems that have caused the conflict, many times purely personal falling issues, and that a judicial sentence can hardly deepen and resolve the real problems that affect interpersonal relationships. A court ruling, moreover, when it comes up later, loses the qualification of just. The mediation, counsel, allows a much more immediate resolution of the conflict, reduces the negative effects of the feelings that arrive long after producing the problem that caused it. But mediation does not address only the subjective part in the relationship with the Administration of Justice, mediation, and the rest of alternative methods of conflict resolution, they have accredited advantages, such as now the estavia of time, the economic estavia, and above all, the reduction of emotional costs of the people involved in the conflict. Moreover, it involves and takes responsibility for the parts of the resolution, and therefore facilitates that later they arrive at an agreement and collaborate actively to accomplish it. Imagine yourself and do a simple exercise of imagination. How would they feel more repaired before a conflict, can they talk to the person who has made you worse and explain how you feel, how you have affected yourself, what personal transfers have caused you the conflict, or living a judicial process where you may not even be criticized and who do not even know the entire procedural functioning that led to their resolution? I think the answer is obvious and clear. The willingness to maintain a closer and more communicative relationship between the litigating parties is the fundamental pillar of mediation and the rest of mechanisms for extrajudicial conflict resolution. And in Catalonia, from the Department of Justice, we know that it is committed to the culture of the dialect as the form of judicial, social and political integration. We need to continue to deepen on this bet that your department is encapsulating it and we understand that the Catalan Counsel's mediation project is an example of an implication. This involvement must extend its entire population and, above all, to all legal operators, and this phenomenon of involvement must go through four areas: training, information, digital communication and investigation. Effectively, it can inform and train and seduce lawyers' professionals about the benefits of mediation as a conflict resolution mechanism. In court proceedings, in many cases the lawyer acts de facto as a substitute for the victim. In a mediation process, the lawyer is equally necessary and, in addition, becomes a substitute for being a victim's companion, and this fact we consider to be of the essence. At the economic level, turning to the way of mediation significantly reduces costs by respecting the judicial way; the World Bank estimates that the cost is in a seventy-five per cent of students. It is necessary to deepen those training and information criteria to ensure that the courts also derive mediation cases for the benefits we have exposed and because it is not yet sufficient to decongest ordinary courts and tribunals. Today it's still very easy for the judges to make these derivations. Betting on these alternate mechanisms, giving them more legal relevance, strengthening them, promoting them in areas where socially they are more necessary and betting for their correct development is the best alternatives that can be applied to solve these two problems: the cost and saturation of the Administration of Justice. In the same way, we have to work all the folds to get the SOM, the Orientation Service to the Mediation, of uniprovincial law colleges like that of Lleida – let it hide from home – have enough resources and means to get to the whole territory and, especially, in a province like that of Lleida, with a very large territorial dispersion. So we will be able to inform, raise awareness and give knowledge of this appeal that has to become, we believe, essential in the Catalan judicial framework. Traditionally, there have been various mediation mechanisms in Catalonia, some of which have been fully consolidated, such as criminal, family, community, labor or commercial. According to Article 106 of the Statute of Autonomy, the Generality is competent to regulate the mediation procedure in the resolution of conflicts in matters of its competence. In this line, the year 2001, the Parliament approved the law of family mediation in Catalonia. Ours became the first autonomous community to regulate family mediation and became a referent for later autonomous laws. In 2009, the law of mediation was published in the sphere of private law, also a pioneer throughout the State, and, finally, in the year 2020, it was published the modification of the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia relating to the person and the family and the law, of 2009, of mediation in the field of private law. We celebrated enormously how, in your intervention in the Commission of Justice, you made a clear and firm bet of your department for mediation. He announced to us that, in the field of law, legal entities and mediation have achieved a presumption of 1.27 million euros, more than 300,000 euros compared to 2020, which means an increase of thirty-four_per_cent. Congratulations, Counselor. We congratulate her on her commitment to mediation, to fight to achieve a more agile, modern and forthcoming justice, and to understand mediation as a reality that must be extended, known and empowered, and that has, in this case, resulted in putting the name of mediation on this Directorate-General. As you always say, the name does and will do the thing, in this case. And, finally, if I may, a personal headline that came to me as I prepared this inquiry. When I started working in prison, Brians 1 touched me with hundreds of residents. When tracts with residents directly, with some of them you establish a certain trust, and we did an exercise that has no scientific value, but that was very illustrative in this sense. I was with them and they explained to me the situation that caused them and the conflict that they generated and that led them to complete prison sentences. And I'd put myself on the victim's paper and explain to them how I could feel about this heavyweight that had suffered. A conclusion was drawn from this dialog that I think is very positive, and that is that a series of internal reflections were generated, on the part of the resident, who may not have touched them until that time and even generated an empathy for the victim that had not been generated until now. What do I mean by that? I understand that by mediating humanize the relations of conflict, we will manage to humanize justice and, if we do so, advise, humanize society. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-16-2003.19.0	It has the word now, to make the answer to the inquiry, the Councilwoman of Justicia, Mrs Lourdes Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-16-2003.20.0	Thank you very much, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Thank you, Mr Garcia Guillamon. What you were thinking now, just finishing your intervention, is restorative justice, which, in this, too, from the department there are compromises, to give margin to restorative justice as the best way to pose, isn't it? , the infraction before the victim, being able to empathize with it and thus avoid further reinsertion. They also bet on alternative criminal measures with the alternative way to pay, right? , the penises instead of being in prison. So, this is the path to a society that works for cohesion. Because, in fact, we're not doing anything that doesn't fit into our way of being like Catalans, are we? In general. The culture of the pau, the culture of the dialect, of the negotiation, the culture of the pact is a very cultural theme and, therefore, also from the Department of Justice we have to be working. Because it's a very close issue, because more and more we have – and you said it – a collapsed justice and because the mediation that it helps, and the alternative conflict resolution system, that it helps the parties reach an agreement. Therefore, those very people who have created a conflict among themselves are still part of the solution. And indeed, we wanted to give visibility to the Directorate-General of Legal Entities and of Right by posing the name of "mediation" because, as a first warning, it says: "Listen, this will be important for this consultancy. Because language is important, as you well know and as this room does not stop observing Plere Plere, language is very important. So, as we say, mediation and the other alternative methods of conflict resolution are also a state structure as tools for fostering coexistence that contribute, as we say, to agile justice, that give solutions faster than judicial proceedings and allow the parties to agree. They avoid that part of the litigation enters the judicial arena, that has a certain complexity, is congested, that costs time, that costs money... The data is: it lowers the cost in a seventy-five_per_cent, when a process is solved through mediation, and the duration of time in a eighty-five_per_cent. Therefore, it is a very high benefit. And, as we all know, let's look at what's best for us and what's best for us from the council, and we think we can contribute to that, to improve, and that, if there's no doubt, this room will have a lot to say. We understand that, first, we need to systematize and straighten out the multiple areas where mediation and the various agents involved already operate. The current dispersal exists disorient; disorientates above all those who would want to gather. People who don't understand it, who are looking for a solution through mediation, need to find the quick way to access information, because if that doesn't happen, that goes against the fact that it's making use of this alternative conflict resolution tool. For this reason, we want to bring forward the draft law of prevention, management and resolution of conflicts, because we want to direct the mediation, because this, sense of doubt, will help to portray it and because it is understood as a valid tool, close to and that it creates trust for the people who still don't know it well. But it is clear that this from the administration of justice alone cannot be done, nor from the administration in general, so we must seek complicity, also from this chamber, as I said to begin with, but above all the collaboration of the agents with the lawyer, with the chambers of commerce, with the Consulate of the Sea or other entities. We have to sum up to put the mediating at a short distance, to put it in the abst and to form part of the collective imagination, that we come the mediating to the collective imagination when it generates a conflict. Our commitment, therefore, to strengthen mediation and the rest of the alternative conflict resolution systems is very firm, we believe and we are working there. What? First of all with resources, if you don't talk to them, don't take a little more credit if we don't have the facts... we'll accompany them with resources. You announced it, didn't you? At present, we had €427,000 earmarked in the budget and we moved to almost 700,000 in the budget of 2022. In addition, together with resources, we need to train and disseminate alternative methods of conflict resolution, and therefore we need to be complicit with universities, from the judicial career to the Judicial School of Catalonia and in the practice of law schools. That everyone knows it, knows all the resources, feels to speak and explains it, that it is also apostolates of the media. We will see why there is, therefore, continued training. We will be strengthening the Media Centre of Catalonia, from where we are already promoting a new protocol for gathering and monitoring media professionals, updating and expanding the Mediator's Guide; boosting a personalized service platform for us mediators, registers, and opening to the website of the Media Centre of Catalonia a space of resources and a constantly updated agenda of training and activities on mediating and alternative conflict resolution systems. We have also increased the economics of mediators and legal operators. After two years of frozen tariffs, we'll increase it to 20 percent. Let's go from forty to fifty euros per session and part. So, better me that's this payoff. We also pushed for the creation of an interdepartmental commission. What does that mean? This means that within the Administration, within the Government there are many areas where we are mediating, and very much needed in all areas. It is about coordinating and uniting strategies; coordinating the formation, so that we can also increase from the Administration, from the different areas where each of us, each department acts..., we continue to be proactive at the time of increasing the culture of this mediation, and also to put in value the Government of Catalonia and the Generality as the main agent of this collaboration and of this bet for the mediation. Above all, also very important, the local administration. We must continue to work with the local administration as the first trinxera – which we always give – of attention to the citizen and that above all are key actors in the promotion and in the impulse and in giving response to its citizens through mediation. We need to be on the side of the local administration in the media. Also the diffusion strategy. Diffusion is very important, to get to know it – I have been there all along – and, therefore, ADR premiums will empower them, alternative conflict resolution premiums. Because, therefore, we want to make it visible that the knowledge transfer in mediation is very important, because the knowledge transfer is the key to the progress of societies. When you study in the theoretical field, when you know the experts, when you study in right-hand comparison as well as when you get to the street; new techniques, new forms and above all updates. And that's the transfer of knowledge, and so when I got them to be complicit with the administrations, in this case, with the universities, I meant that. These are some of the challenges that await us because we want to place Catalonia as one of the most important countries in this area. We want to be at the side or be like the countries that have citizens and empowered citizens, responsible for managing conflicts. We want to put Catalonia on the side of the countries that they make, from the efforts and from the culture of effort, the advent to excellence, and the countries that make the culture of pau one of the pillars and a model of the societies that they want to build. So we want to talk about Catalonia as a mediator. Now, don't let it slip that we're not a state and we have risks in the media as well. We have certain risks and we need to get old, and that is why we are waiting for all the members of this chamber with representation, with parliamentary groups in the State, because we are looking forward to the preliminary draft of the law of procedural efficiency measures of the Public Justice Service that the Spanish Government is preparing. There's a series of alerts we need to vet. They're on alert for now, so let's hope you don't move on to majors. In Catalonia we have a private law of mediation, which must be respected. The Department of Justice has its impulse skills to alternate methods of conflict resolution. This has to go on feeling that way. This law wants to determine the requirements, training, records..., is to say, enter the kitchen of what you already foresee..., into what Catalonia has of competitions. We cannot allow judicial mediations to require fewer requests from those who are now asking Catalonia to mediate and to mediate. At the Catalan law we have a register of mediators; we want to match it, yes, but it is not diluted in a register of mediators general. The Spanish model is different from ours. We'll have to get old because our media model is fully respected; we're on the road, we've got a statutory job, and we won't let you get hurt. We have to make the appointment of mediators so far, from the Media Centre of Catalonia, not from the Judicial Office, because the centre guarantees training, guarantees the updating of all mediators. So... plus he won't get away with it either, obviously this law, marking a series of requests or pointing at a series of requests, doesn't have a finance menu. That's, say, repeat, and it's the usual. I'm done. The message that I wanted to convey, in the end, from this intervention is that mediation is not a lower-class tool, that mediation is a tool that helps resolve conflicts, that there is no winning side and there is no losing side and that the win-lose binomial is changing for the win-win binomial. And what does that allow? Recover and maintain, restore business relationships, family relationships, business relationships or relationships of any kind, including work, that have been seen ill as a consequence of conflict. Conflicts are there, they have to know how to manage and success in their resolution is what marks the progress of societies and the guarantee of achieving this: to keep the progress for all and for all. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-16-2003.21.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. So let's suspend the session until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock. Thank you.
