ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0401.1.0	Good morning. Let's start the session. And before giving away the order of the day of this specific plenary session, I would like to give the warmest and warmest welcome to Congresswoman Teresa Pallarès, who is returning to the Chamber today. [[Strong applause and perlongats. The chamber is set dempeus.]] It's a great pleasure and a huge hope to have her back here, in the Chamber, in Parliament, at your house. Welcome, Teresa. [[Procedure for choosing Senators to represent the Generality to the Senate]] [[280-00001/13]] And we will continue to follow the procedure for the election of the senators to represent the Government of Catalonia to the Senate... Yes? Why ask me the word, Mr. Garriga?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0401.2.0	The demand under Rule 90, to enforce this Regulation, in concrete terms, 174.2 which establishes the procedure for the election of the Senate. I'd like to make some demonstrations in this House, in this sense.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0401.3.0	You have two minutes, as a maximum, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0401.4.0	Ladies and gentlemen, we have already warned the Board of Spokesmen, when we asked for the Bureau's review, we have reiterated it to the Committee on the Statute of the Deputies and we will remember it again in this House. The law20210513_04i5PLE's location is very clear: both to the State, to Article 61a, as to the Rules of this chamber– 174.2 which I have previously stated–, as to Law 6/2010, of 26 March, of the procedure of designation of senators, is established, clear and Catalan, that the designation must be proportional. It is clear that this vote that they are taking to this House today is not proportional, because, of eight parliamentary groups of this chamber, only three have the designation of senators. That is why we want to state that this proposal is a fraud of the law, with the connivance of the Bureau, on behalf of the Board of Spokesmen and, if necessary, also on behalf of this House. And that is why we show that the only intention there was to marginalise this parliamentary group, that is, to marginalise 217,000 Catalans. They have come to a so-called imperial formula that we could really call a democratic imperial scam. Because the formulas used previously by this chamber, the d'Hondt law or most remains, always gave us a senator that we could designate from our political formation. And you want to avoid it. With which, I end with a warning and an announcement. The warning: agree to form a government, because, if there are elections in July, we will perhaps be the third force in this chamber, and they will have it more difficult; they will have to invent a new formula, which I propose some name, could be the "globali" scam, because the "imperiali" will already be expired. And an announcement that we have reiterated in the different organs of this chamber: we will file an appeal to the Constitutional Court, because, for us, before the law, the courts; before their interests, the welfare of all Spaniards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0401.5.0	With regard to this proposal, there is no debate. It may be recalled that the distribution of the eight senators was established by an agreement of the Board of Spokespersons and the Bureau. The reconsideration was dismissed. Therefore, the distribution continues to feel the following: the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units have three senators, who will be appointed; the Republican Esquerra Parliamentary Group, three more senators, and the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, two more senators. As I said, the Bureau and the Spokesman's Board agreed on the reduced format of the plenary sessions, with the current pandemic circumstances for the covid, sixty-five Members have voted for this specific session. The only point on the agenda of this specific session is the procedure for choosing the senators to represent the Generality. In accordance with Law 6/2010, which regulates the procedure for the appointment of Senators representing the Generality to the Senate, once the candidatures for the delegation have been submitted, and the Commission of the Status of Deputies, in accordance with Article 4.5 of Law 6/2010, has been given favourable opinion, proposed to the chamber the names of the candidates to be appointed Senators in representation of the Generality of Catalonia. I would like to ask the first secretary, Mr Ferran Pedret, to read the names of the candidates and candidates.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0401.6.0	« For the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance, Manel de la Vega Carrera, Lorena González Dios, Antoni Poveda Zapata ; for the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, Adelina Escandell i Grasses, Pau Furriol i Fornells and Josep Maria Reniu i Vilamala, and, finally, for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Assumption Castellví i Auví i Josep Lluís Cleries i Gonzàlez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-13-0401.7.0	Thank you very much. Let us now proceed to the vote. In accordance with Article 5.2 of Law 6/2010 and Article 101.3 of the Rules, this vote shall be electronic and secret. And I remind you that it's a submeter to vote on a proposal and not an election. Therefore, the votes which are formulated may be in favour, against or abstentions. For the electronic and secret ballot, remember that you have to press the presence button first and then the concrete voting button. And to ensure that the vote is secret, the light corresponding to the vote being cast will not be illuminated. Let us therefore begin the vote. With 166 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 9 abstentions, Senators and Senators representing the Generality to the Senate were appointed as the candidates previously cast: the Honourable Assumption Castellví and Auví, Mr. Josep Lluís Cleries and Gonzàlez, Ms. Adelina Escandell and Grasses, Mr. Pau Furriol and Fornells, Ms. Lorraine González Dios, Mr. Antoni Poveda Zapata, Mr. Josep Maria Reniu and Vilamala, and Mr. Manel de la Vega Carrera. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 100 votes in favour, 20 against and 9 abstentions. Therefore, after having made this election, the session rises. And give them the start of the control session. Thank you very much.
