ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.1.0	Let's start the session. [[Manifestation of Condemnation of Male Violence]] And, before I resume the session, I would like to add myself, and I know that I speak on behalf of the whole chamber, to the shows of rebuking and protest against the brutal rape suffered by a seven-year-old girl in Igualada. It is clear that this type of violence is a sham that it is and must be unbearable for the society as a whole, and even more so for the group of public servants, that we have the obligation to work for a fairer and safer society for everyone, especially for women. Because, according to data from the Department of Equality, it's up to three women's daily complaints that they claim to be victims of sexual assault, and we know that it's an area where there are many cases that they don't report. As public representatives, we have the right to express our need, but we also have the duty to work with determination to eradicate these behaviors, which are unfit for a mature and just society. Finally, I also know that I speak on behalf of the whole chamber when we convey all our solidarity, support and esteem to the family, to friends and to the whole educational community of Masquefa, who know that they are living an evil. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[He asked the Government about the functioning of the health system]] [[300-00059/13]] [[Let us now turn to the 14th item of the order of the day, the question to the Government on the functioning of the health system, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. You have the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mrs Anna Grau.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.2.0	Thank you, President. Benvolgut doctor and advisor Argimon, we were saying here yesterday that Catalan public health is underfunded, underfunded, and that you yourself, with the elegance that character, have already told your government companies, that you are now holding some assumptions here and some others in Madrid. That, here, either we inject urgently rooms– many rooms– or the unceasing stop will dismount us, and, forgive me, it will no longer be for the covid, or not only. It is precisely today that we wanted to ask you about one of the many health dramas that in the last year have been experienced in parallel with the tragedy of the covid, and that, if we do not try to see the public light and the public debate..., which is where we are going to stop. In this chamber, it has become painfully clear to us today that there are a majority of MEPs in favour of passing the pages of many ill-conceived health decisions during the coven's lead months. We've seen the Socialist Party settle with Juntas and Esquerra to launder the poor management of the pandemic at the residents of the great people, and, on top of that, if you talk to them about dignity, and they say you keep it there where you don't do us. Good morning, Mr. Moreno. Miri, for your eyes only, I return to make a peto to Ciutadans pine: one and two – in porto two –; if the flight, then I donate one. But today we are for what we are, and our interlocutor is the Councillor of Salut, the Councillor Argimon, the first post-covid councillor of the Catalan Sanitary. The one who promises to come to straighten the house and make net of the unpaid managed from the previous councillor, Alba Vergés. When Mrs. Vergés was a counselor and not so much you, you closed files – I don't know whether by conviction or by political discipline – with decisions as hard as delaying the vaccination of national police and civilian guards. Now that the councillor is you and only you, I am interested in his opinion on another delicate episode, as is the case of the derivation of malalt Catalan children from cancer to the clinical lunums of Germany, Italy or Switzerland for a treatment of prototherapy when it is already possible, in this treatment, to two health centres of the Community of Madrid; concretely, in a centre of Quiron, opened in Pozuelo on September 2019, and in another of the University Clinic of Navarre, opened near the airport of Barajas on April 2020. While some news has already been released in the newspaper, mainly in El Mundo, thanks to journalist Pilar Pérez's research, we try to put the facts in line and understandably for everyone. Prototherapy is a treatment that, until relatively recently, could not be applied to Spain. Until 2017 it was not announced the opening of centres that would assume it, until 2019 it was not opened the first – in Madrid, as I said – and it was not until November 2020 – well entered the year of the pandemic – when social security officially included this treatment in its portfolio of services. Finally – and still – each autonomous community does a little what it likes, or it's blown away as it can. We know for Columbus Foundation, a private foundation that helps the families of these sick children, that the majority of communities have ceased to derive these sick children from alienating them so well they have the opportunity to derive them to Spanish hospitals, concretely, Madrid – already hard to know, they are there, they are in Madrid. I don't have to explain it to you, because you are a methge, the huge difference between sending a malalta creature of cancer to treat himself to Germany or Switzerland or doing it in his own country. The difference is far-reaching in terms of trauma, extremes, patience, difficulties for the family – which, to begin with, has nothing to know about idioms –..., and we don't talk about expenses. The Columbus Foundation, which has paid many of these bills, explains to us that, above all, for those things of the bureaucracy that sometimes cause mishearing and worse to explain, it is seen that, if you draw a Catalan child to foreigner, it pays – the one that pays, that doesn't pay everything – social security, it pays the Spanish State, to say it in local slang, and that, if you go to Madrid, it pays – the one that pays, that doesn't pay everything – the autonomous community. I am not saying that the criteria for students are not important, in a health that is as well-funded as the Catalan, managed, above, with the few, because, already, he will forgive me..., even if it is legal for an autonomous community to make this decision, he decided to ignore that children who are ill can be treated in Madrid and not in Switzerland, man, perhaps they would have to suspend other criteria. Sending children so ill to treat themselves so far, without need, would already have been a cruelty – the expression is not mine, it is responsible for the Columbus Foundation – but if we add to it the context of the covid, of cruelty we go directly to horror. The prototherapy, obviously, lowers the defenses. There have been children who have had to travel literally in a bottle, without vaccination, killed by them and their parents. And maybe they've been left alone for months without being able to return, for the agonies of confinement. I understand that the daily El Mundo prepares nine informations of new cases that pose the hairs of the tip. And I ask you, counselor and Dr. Argimon, that we all think it touches you more than your predecessor: it was this more care, more insensitivity, more expression of the harmful incompetence that we have seen in other areas – as the management of the residencies – or was it a deliberate political decision? Did he take advantage of someone who wasn't hanging out from these sick kids to pull through the right and load the drama and the drama bill to the families? The ugly rabies drifting patients to Madrid? Have they been regaling with the salvation of our infants? As I said, the prototherapy has relatively little to do with Spain. It is relatively little that social security has included it in its portfolio of services. It does relatively little that autonomy can make one decision or another. But if we compare the case of Catalonia with that of other communities, Catalonia is in very bad shape. At its Balearic Islands, without going any further, they lacked time to stop drifting into alienation and doing so on the peninsula, and even to create a specific presuppositional game to offer this service. According to data from the Columbus Foundation, of the thirty-nine children derived for them the year 2019 for foreign prototherapy, twelve were Catalans– that is 30.77_percent of the total–; the year 2020 was five Catalans of thirteen– a 38.46_percent of the total–; this year, 2021, eleven children, all Catalans– one hundred_percent. Catalonia was left alone in the city, Catalonia went to the last wander of this train. I'm told that just now is the recent outcome of a first case in Madrid. One sun, say my fonts. If there is more, please let us know. It'll bring us an upper hand and give us hope. Counseller i Dr. Argimon..., if today we are asking you about this issue is not to remove the political colors; it is that in the background we refuse to believe that still at this point there are so many buried mines, so many time bombs hidden in our health system. I believe that in the last sessions of this Parliament it has become clear that there are many collectives who have complaints, very serious complaints, how available resources are managed, with what criteria and why. Humbly, we come to ask you to explain to us what you know about all this, what you have to tell the families of these children and what future plans there are. We are not for more tragic mistakes than those that are then covered up with working groups, because shame goes up to go to a parliamentary committee of inquiry. We heard him. We want to trust you. We want to be able to tell all the parents of sick children that they are within the system, not outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.3.0	Then comes the words of Salut's advisor, Mr. Josep Maria Argimon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.4.0	Good morning, President. Good morning, Congresswoman Grau. MPs, MPs... you have already explained very well what prototherapy is; therefore, I will not be there. It's a technique... yes, it's a very specific technique and, besides, it has a few indications, that's right. Above all it is..., in children and young children – under different years, but above all even smaller – and not in all types of tumor: usually in solid tumors and in very concrete clinical situations. I also explain this – and I have to say it now – that Catalonia has many years of applying prototherapy and leading to alienation, basically because they were the centers to which they could be sent at those times. And it is true, too – and you have explained it very well – that the year 2020 enters into a portfolio of services. And, besides, it enters the service portfolio at a time when the private centers too – in these two that you mentioned earlier, from Madrid – come into operation. Since what is the service portfolio and the General Directorate of the Service Portfolio, the autonomous communities have called for – and Catalonia has also called for it – that, among what are the centres, eh? , because there is a rule – and that's true – when first, for international purposes, you have to go public, right? ... but that these two centres should be included, as you have said – that these two centres should be included. For one reason: because when you make this suitable with public centers is for the possibility of not sending..., with treatments that can be, because we understand each other, alternates, or that are not..., of proven evidence, that is not the case with prototherapy, that already has a long tradition and that has, moreover, some good results, I repeat, in very concrete cases. And from this point of view, it has also been announced that there will be two machines in Catalonia – in Spain, god; it is a very considerable number, perhaps a considerable number. And, therefore, it is something that, from this point of view, can be done to public sanitation. You also said another aspect that is very important: the aspect that when you are..., not you, the family or the person who is sick, and more if it is a creature, there is a situation that is stressful, and what we can't add is more extreme, yet, from the point of view of an idiomatic barrier, that can happen on many occasions. And you also mentioned another point that has been especially dramatic, which is during the cove, because, apart from this ideological barrier, and you find in some circumstances where you are in a situation many times of confinement or needing to make PCRs to be, therefore, between the country. Therefore, we have already made the decision to send the people, so, in this case, to the centers of Madrid, either of them. And, therefore, as you have also explained, we have already begun this month of October this derivation, because, well, all the requests, we still do not have, in this official list of centers, these two centers of Madrid. But we're already near this decision, basically because of what you said: it's a fully proven treatment, that we're fifteen years old, and therefore, if it's possible to do more about it, with guarantees... Why do I already say it, too: when you start all the work, the first months, right? ... but they're practically wearing one year and in the other two... all of this makes us drift and drift into these centers. When you have given the percentages, I also have to say, and now it's not..., these percentages are for two basic reasons: because they come from very specialized centers. Basically here we can only derive from..., when we talk about children, it is derived from the Vall d'Hebron, which is what is used as radiotherapy. So, we're from an area that's not just Catalonia, but the whole part... and that... you get those percentages, thirty-fifty-fifty, huh? Catalonia is about a seven_per_cent, if we look at it in the population. But, I repeat, from tradition we carry many years of disease sending to prototherapy– many years – okay? Actually, this was the first one, too. And from this point of view, I also say: during all these years it has been on the premises of the Generality, and now it is still on the premises of the Generality. I say this for a reason: because when you explain – that is true – that you run for social security and, in addition to social security, because it is the INSS..., then it is compensated. What happens is that they do it because it's INSS that has the international conventions to care about foreigners, okay? And they're these mutually agreed. But then you make up for it with cohesion, huh? So, summarizing, we drift, we've already started drifting and drifting... obviously donating to choose, right? But we're going first to Madrid, okay? These two centres. And, I repeat, we've already started. And especially what I wouldn't want is for us to look if it's Madrid or if it's... that's not... that's not right now. What is certain is that there are European centres that have a lot of tradition and a lot of experience, in this case, and that we have used them ourselves and Madrid, and other communities, 15 years ago. For my part, nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.5.0	There's the word, now, Mrs. Anna Grau's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.6.0	Thank you, Madam President; thank you, Counsellor Argimon. The truth is, it's true that dealing with you is something else. I mean, I thank him for the explanations he gave, the whole, the sensible, and, above all, the humanity he carried over. In the background, I assume that all this has to do with pending debates – like the one-stop-shop – and with hidden dramas – like what happens when people are cured is very much because, the details are huge and the effort is not so much to do the work as to hide that is not done. You, who have made it clear to us that you suffer from these issues, have said that you want to double the assumption of primary care in Catalonia. You have acknowledged that the hospital network is insufficient. You keep saying you're more flowing than you are. [[the speaker lowers the tone of view]] home care can be the alternative to the future. I will not say that no, I say to you, that it is all a metheur, but, look, as things have been lately, to which we are not metheurs has entered what we could say in a crisis of confidence in those who are. A white robe before was a font of authority, now it's a font of doubts: look at me? Do they do everything they can for me and my kids and my big people? , or do they seek to remove 'the death from above – sometimes literally – seeking that it is not known? Counselor and Dr. Argimon, if you don't have them all with your own government or even with the Spanish government, it's time to say it. If they force him to keep Catalonia healthy with a Saturday and a spadenya, tomorrow he will help. Don't follow this general's garrote meth, which does more because I'm enjoying it. Don't cover up caresses and shames; let us know, see if we can give you a hand stick and tax among all of them. We commented today that it is sad to see how government groups systematically block any initiative, proposed resolution or proposed law that I commit them to finance better sanitation, to open a frank debate about what is needed to do things right. There was just a need for the PSC to whiten according to what kind of thing. We all know that the fault is not Madrid – or not just Madrid – or the covid. Let's stop tying the head under the wing and go all the way together to work. And, for my part, nothing more, for the time being.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.7.0	Let us therefore turn to the 15th item of the order of the day, the question to the Government on the transformation of the health system, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. [[Question to the Government on the transformation of the health system]] [[300-00065/13]] It has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Titon Laïlla.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.8.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, if we are talking about salvation, obviously I can't begin, once more and since this Faristol, without recognizing the efforts made by the professionals in the field of salvation during this time of pandemic, who have prioritized the salvation of all over their particular and, in many cases, their families as well, and who still today do not have normalized their life, we could say work or professional because today – and you have said so many times – we suffer this pandemic which, fortunately, seems to begin to see in the end, but we must be aware that we are still there. For I, who knoweth the white coat, must say to him that the white beats are not of doubt for me, but that they are of truth; that the white beats are of truth. [[applause]] They're sources of support, they're sources of empathy, they're sources of work, they're sources of support. And so, in this sense, we're still taking care of, we're still taking care of the cases that may be. As I said, this pandemic has put us on the table, and in a very strong way, who are the strong but also who are the fevers of our system of salvation; strong which, obviously, we need to strengthen, we need to consolidate, and fevers which we need to face so as to make them better opportunities at this immediate juncture that we have among all, to guarantee this quality of salvation. We have a health system that has demonstrated a commendable ability to adapt, and from this knowledge that gives proximity to the territory, with this ability to adapt the different providers of health care and also the very high specialization that in many cases also, today, makes us pointers. But we also need to be aware of all that we have touched you in the effort made by the professionals, by the teams of the professionals of salvation. And I'm talking about doctors, but I'm also talking about the neteja teams, I'm talking about the administrations and I'm talking about the nurses; I'm talking about the managers and I'm talking about the professional teams of the central services; I'm talking about all the professionals, who, in one way or another, impact on the attention we give from the perspective of salvation. Therefore, we must make an effort that must be transversal in all senses. We must be able to guarantee the continuity of care throughout the system, already through the different services..., from primary to tertiary, but also to the length of life. And it's in this sense that we need to empower – and we've said it a thousand times here in this faristol too, you've done so many times – primary care and community much more than you've been up to now. And I certainly believe that it is time to make definitive decisions that make this shared idea come true, so that we make the primary a more resolute, more operational environment, and that we can certainly clean up a lot of processes we could say bureaucrats or administrators who still make the professionals of salvation and who surely bring little value or not as much value as what they could bring if they were dedicated to the most health care part, right? At a time, obviously, therefore, to speak of your autonomy and also, in the measure that is possible, to count with the most professional, as you have already announced in these last months. In the same way, we also need to strengthen and place in a privileged place the attention and cure of mental salvation and the emotional well-being of the citizenry. Here I am not going to enlarge, because we will have the opportunity to do so in a monographic plethora proper in this Parliament and also, moreover, in the committee we were in, yesterday, constituting on mental salvation and addictions, in this Parliament. We have a health system that is good, but we need to do it better: we need to make it more transparent, more caregiver, more open, faster, more pointer, more innovative, to give this better attention, and do everything by taking care of those who care for us. Because caring went beyond curing, medication, visiting; caring puts the value above all in managing what is intangible, giving your hand, as you explained, at the conference that was held this week. But to do all this, counselor, we need good funding. This is a widely shared diagnosis not only for this Parliament, but also for experts and the sector. In fact, there is a report prepared for the committee of experts for this transformation of the health system that already points to the need to increase the financing of health for the next few years by 5,000_million euros. And I think, as I said, it's a widely shared diagnostic. And I don't think anyone gets away with the fact that the financing system in Spain punishes especially those communities with a greater demand for services, and therefore also with a higher level of development, and, at the same time, that it is obvious that the fiscal effort made by Catalans should be able to reverse it better in making resources available for our health care. But together with this underfunding, there is another shared diagnosis not only for the experts and the health world, that we need to adapt the health system to the new needs of the people. You, counselor, were moving forward this week at the conference he did when he said it was time, right? Let us start a new cycle, that we have an opportunity. And it is certainly so, because there is a series of determinants that put us on the table the need to update the system, such as the increase in life expectancy, the increase in morbidity, the increase in chronic diseases – chronicity – and a much more resolute sort of medicine, but this also forces a greater involvement of citizens in their health and in a much more informed way. Therefore, we must strengthen the system. And we must do this among all, starting with the different institutions that conform to the system and that guarantee this public and universal attention. Also professionals, doctors, nurses, psychologists, social workers, physiotherapists, nutritionists and a wide range of professions, many in the field of health, but not others, who will become involved – and, in fact, are already – in the management of our system. But also – and we can't forget – the patients..., and the need to have knowledge and decision beyond those that impact on their own health situation..., but also to be able to decide to participate in health management policies. I believe, Counselor, that we are at a transcendental moment to make this inn a day and a transformation of the system, to place it another time and in a much more generalized way, surely, in the preeminent places of the health care of Europe and the world, as we have always done – and we have not assumed, of our health care system – and why we must maintain this universality and the portfolio of services without expelling anyone from the health care system, with public funding, this very system that guarantees the quality and safety that we have historically provided, and in which we have always been aligned with the reference policies of the World Health Organization. In fact, our system of salvation or it is intergenerational, with territorial proximity, that everyone feels his own and there is no one expelled, that we can attend to vulnerable people but also the generalization of the population of our country, the middle classes..., as said a referent of health management, that said: "We must avoid Brazilianizing our system of salvation, that follow the middle classes also that it is his own, because, if not, what we do will be that it is not our system, our system, sustainable. Therefore, if we are to be transformative, we need to talk about governance, we need to talk about the autonomy of centres, we need to talk about innovation and we also need to talk about research: as we do because there is a direct, swift and effective translation of what we investigate in direct care, clinical care, to our citizens. And also, to be truly transformative, we have to make decisions that facilitate retention of talent – that we have, and that we have – and, at a time, that we can be attracted to talent receptors. Surely we will have to change the perspective in some cases and value the management of the health system without dogmatisms. This week, moreover, that the summit of Glasgow's climate is taking place, I can't forget one thing for me very interesting and transcendent, and it's that, moreover, since 2009, we've been talking about having salvation in all the policies, right? We need to know that if the health sector were a country, we would be the fifth largest emitter on the planet, because we emit 4.4_percent of global carbon emissions from gases with winter effects, according to a study by an NGO called Health Care Without Harm, which collected the magazine The Lancet and also made its own the World Health Organization. Therefore, also applying salvation to all policies, obviously, we have to go online with this change and with these system improvements, which go on to invest in new technology taking advantage of the obsolescence that there is at these times, right? , to say: "We must change technology, we must change our system, our infrastructures... We must also do so in line with the objectives of sustainable development, which, of course, we share in this line of salvation in all policies. That is why, counselor, the reason for this inquiry is to know in your Parliament the perspective you have and your advice to make this transformation that we all share in the system, and as we move forward, right? Because he said, "Now is the time to move forward. There's a Japanese proverb that says that no way is long if it's with friends, right? You know that in this transformation of the system you didn't just, there wasn't the department alone, but we all went together. And so, there's all of us, and I think there's more. Thank you, Counselor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.9.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The words of the greeting counselor, Mr. Josep Maria Argimon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.10.0	Good day, president; good day, deputy Laïlla; good day, deputies and deputies. Very quick. In the first place, I will give some ideas that I believe have already been expressed here and that we have been commenting on them, too, especially to the Health Committee. The first is this idea of needing funding, isn't it? And it's not a "why yes." I think we all always claim more finance, but certainly the health systems..., the health system in Catalonia, but in general, therefore, they are underfunded. In fact, the WHO itself just over a week ago reminded us that it would be good to see salvation as a reversal – and, moreover, a mid- and long-term reversal – and not as a expense. This element is quite important. And when we talk about reversal now, here – and that's why I think it's important –... when they were talking to me, before, about trust, if I had confidence in the government, man, I'd just miss it, because I'm part of it and there's every day and every day and every day. I have full confidence in my government. But I also have full confidence in the chamber, because here – and I remember – we play the presupposition – I'm talking now about the Salut – in two great areas: in the sphere of our presupposition – that here is making a very and very important effort – but there is also a part of the presupposition that has been very linked to these extraordinary foundations, which I think is also very important to explain to us the need and to claim to us the need. And in this many of you or your political formations also have responsibilities in Madrid or in Madrid, and therefore it is also important, therefore, this demand and this need for these extraordinary foundations. The second element: where you will go or where we want the health system to go. From the outset, it is an idea, this, in the health plan that we will present shortly and that we will also present to the Health Commission..., is to speak much more of salvation than of malalty. And that... whether we like it or not, every time we have to talk more about salvation, about policies of salvation, and not just about curative policies and malalty. And that, why? So because every time we like each other or not, we have to go looking for prevention and promotion of salvation, because it's hard, if not, to get a community salvation, a good people salvation. To achieve this, we also have to go to a health system that is more integrated every time. And, among this integration, between what can be coordination between levels or the own integration of care levels, the primary attention has a central role. There it is. We always say it, we've all said it, everybody, but we have to start running around here, too. And here are some elements that I think have been put on the march, that they were put on the march by the Vergés councillor's team – of which I was a part, right? I say, with a lot of honor, and I honestly say it. So, from this point of view, everything that is a primary care enhancement plan began. And it's an enhancement plan that has also been talked about and agreed with professionals, and that basically involves the incorporation of new professional profiles, but claimed extensively from a long time ago, which is..., these managers covid, say along with you... – I'm sorry –, health managers, who come from these managers covid who appeared during the pandemic, which is the staff managed that had always, in some way, been claimed to primary care. From a point of view of what they say, in slang..., which is what is called the "UBA – the basic care unit –, which is normally that of a meth and a nurse, they have always claimed or good part of them have claimed not to the UBA or to the U– meth and a nurse – but to the UBA at three, that is, a meth, a nurse and an administration. What we need to be allowed to do is to debureaucratize, basically, and that people do the paper they need to do and for which they can give more value. That's to say, midwives do more midwives, and nurses, more nurses. And here, as there begins to be some rum-rum, the idea too – and I make it very clear – is not precisely that these people have to do clinical, because they don't have the ability or the competence to do so; nor, obviously, that they can access a clinical history, because they don't have the competence to do so. In this sense, it is also very necessary to incorporate new profiles into this band. I think we've started it, in all the references to emotional well-being. It is also, to this, to give it a much more preventive and promotional fall. This will be the job. It's a job that usually does the infirmary. We would like to be able to hire more nurses, but we certainly have a problem, in this sense, with professionals. And, therefore, there are other profiles that can help us a lot in the future, such as, for example, this emotional well-being, and that must be incorporated into the primary care camp. We have to go between social and health care every time. Detriving social and health care today is very difficult. Chronicle, dependence, increase, and detract from it is very difficult. If we do, if we do these compartments, we will hardly end up paying good attention to the people, especially the people already with more chronicity, to the larger people, because, somehow, I repeat, it is impossible to detract from these problems. We need to strengthen public health, I think we've seen it in the pandemic. And from this point of view, we will need greater presuppositional endowment, we will need to deploy the Public Health Agency, and every time more, that public health is more involved in all that is the health system and the other types of professionals. I, above all – it has already been explained here –, if we want to talk about salvation, it means greeting all policies. Salvation is at school, salvation is at work, salvation is at work. Therefore, we must speak of salvation to all policies. And it's true, too, that the pandemic has allowed us to talk about this. And we'll have to think about the professionals. And here we will have to think and we will all have to reflect on professional demography. And we'll have to debate over the element of saying: "Listen to me, there's a generational relapse... Basically, the promotions or generations of..., my, go, that's a little bit..., or is already retiring or we'll retire in a little bit, and the relapse isn't – it isn't. And this is happening in the infirmary, it's happening in medicine... And, therefore, from this point of view, we will have to face this. Because also – and we have to remember – health services will turn into a territory, but to donate health services we need professional services that you give in a territory, and each time it is harder and less attractive. And on this we must also reflect – and I think it is a reflection that we must also do in this Parliament – on how much more attractive it is to be able to work in places more distant from the great cities, more distant from metropolitan areas. So, it's an important element, and it's this talent capture and retention that we need. And we can't just do this, we have to do this with the citizenry. Every time more we are incorporating more the voice of the citizenry – every time more – but it is still insufficient. That is to say, all..., the decisions that we make – the individual when you are at the consultation or the collective – must be shared decisions, shared with the citizenry. And then there's all the evaluation, transparency, and record keeping. And that's more or less what I've devoted myself to in other previous work of professional life. And from this point of view, I think we have, clearly, to evaluate more, to evaluate more our policies, to make them even more transparent, and above all with the retention of accounts. And I'm basically talking about all the results of salvation. We're claiming more finance. We already have a very high assumption, and we must say that we are returning to the city as to the results in salvation. There is one element that is research and innovation. We have given ourselves, this government, a research department and universities, with which we have an excellent tune. But there is one element of reflection that we share, which is that innovation will be a tractor, a tractor of the economy, of the development of this country. And, from innovation, from this point of view, the biotech part is very important. And here I think that the European foundations, if we have a system that is already strong enough, will be used as a lever for us to move forward more quickly, more quickly, all folds. Two elements that I won't be there anymore – practically I don't have any time –..., which is the green and sustainable system. The Member has given a given that is important: we are the fourth or fifth country – if so, health systems, a country... Therefore, we all have a responsibility, and a global responsibility. And neither will mental salvation, because there will be a plel in a little while, and you know that this is our priority. Well, that's... that's all, but that's the priority, and I'm not going to be there. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.11.0	Let's move to the seventh point of the order of the day... [[Question to the Government about access to services in Catalonia]] [[300-00060/13]] ...the inquiry to the Government on the access to the service to Catalonia, a little populated, presented by the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Pomem. He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.12.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Good morning, Counselor Jordan. Well, they know that Catalonia is an unequally democratic country, where there is a hyperconcentration of the population in the metropolitan areas that is associated or that also causes a hyperconcentration of infrastructures and services in these areas. This phenomenon, which is close to the proper process of urbanization, which generates is a strong territorial inequality between that Catalonia which we can say in Catalonia densely populated and which we can call "the Catalonia sparsely populated, or, in other words, between urban Catalonia and rural Catalonia, without making it obvious that every time the interconnections between the rural and urban worlds are more obvious. Well, with this question, what we want is to put the focus on accessing the service, because while Catalonia is sparsely populated, the low-density democracy, which has gradually been emptying, in the last few years, isn't it? ... while this Catalonia provides us all with food, water, energy, biodiversity, landscapes..., while this Catalonia, in short, sustains us, because it sustains life, so it turns out that its residents, its citizens and citizens, do not have access to many basic services. That is to say, while Catalonia provides us with environmental and landscape services that sustain or sustain us throughout the country, we are not able to provide enough services for this sparsely populated Catalonia. We are talking so much about public services – sanitation, education, transport – as about private natural services that are essential, such as banking services or pharmacies, to give some examples. To position ourselves, let's look at a region, like, for example, the Pallars Sobirá, a region of nearly 140,000_hectares of surface; this is three times the Lower Llobregat or one times the Barcelones. It is the fourth largest region in Catalonia, but the second least populated. Well, the whole Pallars will only have three pharmacies, six ATMs, a post office or three CAPs, where, of course, there is a clear lack of staff and the doctors have to consult and guard without rest. There can be no diagnostic tests in the entire region, and obviously no higher studies can be conducted, while the new library has not yet seen the light, after fifteen years of claims. But let's go down and look at some of these servants I wanted to talk to you about. I want to start by putting attention on banking. The legal framework recognises that all persons have the right to have bank services to collect, pay, pay back or dispose of cash. This right, however, today plays with the strategies and processes of reorganisation and restructuring of the financial sector, which they have as a consequence, as in effect, the closing of offices and the reduction of personalized attention, which is particularly damaging to Catalonia, which is sparsely populated and also to the great people. And this is another of the features of this empty Catalonia: that it is also a highly enveloped Catalonia. And, in this sense, I ask you, counsel, whether the Generality is doing or thinking of doing anything to guarantee banking services. Because..., we change territorial scope: if we go to Camp Tarragona and the Lands of the Ebre, we can find how in these two times, therefore, sixty percent of the municipalities do not have a bank office. This means that there are more than 100 municipalities in these old days that do not have office, which means that more than 63,000 people are forced to move, if they want a finance service. But we see some other essential services: the pharmacies. Another service that suffers from territorial insufficiency not only for the least availability, but also because many of the pharmacies in this sparsely populated Catalonia do not produce master formulas, and therefore this also greatly limits access to certain drugs in many municipalities. And the gift also some given... : the Barcelones has a pharmacy for every 1,800 inhabitants. How can it be that the Solsones, the Segarra, the Alt Urgell, the Montsia or Osona, which are comma with much less density, there is a pharmacy for every 2,000 or 2,500 inhabitants? – 1,800 to Barcelones, 2,500 in some of these comarques. I know it's not her fault, she advises, but I ask her again if the generality is doing or is planning to do something respectful. Move now to other services, to public services. Let's look, for example, at health services. Before the pandemic, if you asked for a date with the dermatologist, Tortosa would be given it to you at the head of 142 days, but if you asked for it in the Valley of Hebron would be given to you in 29 days – five times less than expected. With the neuroleg, the Trueta trigaves 325 days, and the Hospital del Mar, only 45 – seven times less. For a colonoscopy, at the Arnau de Vilanova you had to wait 77 days, but at the Hospital del Mar, only 44. Or to date with the urolaleg, in Lleida, 118 days; in Barcelona, 61. And so we could go on. And, out of this situation, so the coven arrived. And now we find ourselves with a lot of municipalities where they shut down the CAP and haven't reopened it, and, more importantly, they've lost a lot of specialties, such as pediatrics or gynaecology. Not to mention the bad working conditions that health personnel have to endure, which, without having recovered the details of the year 2012, are now seen especially exceeded in these territories by an alarming lack of personnel. But we're looking at some other camp: education. You know that one of the main threats of depopulation dynamics is precisely the people who can be left out of school due to lack of students. And we're no longer talking about the post-compulsory stage, where from these municipalities, so you can't study and you're forced to move or move, if you want to go to a university or a post-compulsory center. Certainly, many of these young people will no longer return to their native municipalities, not only..., or above all, will they not? , due to the lack of services and the lack of opportunities, but also because in some of these territories – like, for example, the Vall d'Aran – access to housing is impossible due to a gentrification phenomenon linked to tourism. More topics: culture, cultural services. Of the 115 museums in Catalonia, it turns out that there are no museums in the Ebre River, in the Upper Land or in the Upper Ribagorça, in the Garrigues, in the Moianès, in the Pla d'Urgell and in the Priorat. Or the cinema halls: in the last twenty years, of the 235 cinema halls that there was the year 2000 we passed to 137, and those that we have lost are basically those of less than five pants, which means that the surviving halls..., a sixty-sep_per_cent of the surviving halls are in the province of Barcelona, while new _de_de_de_municipis de la Catalunya rural do not have a cinematographic offer. And the hard part is: libraries, which in many places are a key point of access to culture, of access to the internet, of access to reading for all age groups, and which are seeing how the presuppositional endowments are retaliated and put in danger, too, or are precarious their workers. And I'm done. No one can escape that the lack of access to all these services in Catalonia is multiplied by the huge deficits that Catalonia suffers from not metropolitan in another of the services that is essential, which is the right to mobility. Public transport differences between large cities and rural areas are alarming, and this affects the way health, culture and education are also accessed. And you, counselor, who is from Ripoll, know perfectly well what I'm talking about. And the problem is not just infrastructure in the field of transport, but above all it's management, and here we have full competitions. For example, because the integrated tariff system covers 97,8_percent of public transport movements, but only up to sixty_percent of the municipalities and leaves out all the lands of the Ebre, the Alt Pirineu and the Aran and good part of Central Catalonia or the Gironine districts. How can it be more economical to take a plane to the Balearic Islands than to come by bus from Llavorsí to Barcelona? How do we explain this? This is a matter of management and tariff system. To guarantee access to all these services in Catalonia is, without doubt, one of the best strategies for the repopulation of these territories. She's not the only one. Obviously, therefore, it also needs to promote territorial development, generate opportunities, generate jobs, and this requires comprehensive interventions. And that brings me to a later question that the current post-pandemic scene is key, that is teletreball. If you are working from the administrations to guarantee teletreball, we would clearly achieve a greater repopulation of these territories. And the pandemic meant an opportunity for that. We have seen how many of these municipalities have increased their population during the pandemic, but what we are seeing now is that a good part of this population is returning to metropolitan areas because we have not been able to provide the necessary services and to provide – because today we still do not guarantee – quality internet access and not just mobile phone access in many of these territories. But not only that, but when we have intervened from the Administration, and I am talking about Instruction 1/2021– therefore, of encany–, of organizational measures for the re-entry into the work centers of the staff of the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia, which we have done is to generate, in our opinion, a precedent that has not taken into account in absolute the territorial factors, and we have delimited as much as two days per week the teletreball to the Administration of the Generality. Therefore, we have created a precedent to make it difficult for us in those sparsely populated territories of Catalonia to favour this teletreball. As in so many other questions, and as we are not tired of saying to the Association of Micropopulations or to the Working Group on Rural Repopulation, we have returned and become..., we continue to regulate from a strictly centralist perspective and without taking into account territorial diversity. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.13.0	The words of the Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda, Mrs Teresa Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.14.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President, Members of Parliament. Congressman Parés, thank you. I have to say thank you because, once again, it is not just a reality that we all know, that this existence of these two Catalonias and of this disaffection also between the rural and urban worlds, but I believe that today it has been exemplified by concrete examples and that they must always be, obviously, well rejected and are also evidence that these two Catalonias..., despite the fact that we have often heard about southern Catalonia, reality is that they do not exist, more or less, two, and two very concrete. You explained it, too, didn't you? : we know that Catalonia is a very diverse country. And it's a fact that prides us in many senses – in many senses. In fact, Catalonia's fan 947 municipalities, and more than half of these municipalities have fewer than a thousand inhabitants, what's that supposed to be, huh? That is to say, we are talking about almost five hundred municipalities– 488, concretely – representing 51,1_per_cent, which concentrate only 2.5_per_cent of the population of our country. The population imbalance, sense of doubt, is obvious. Few municipalities concentrate – you have explained very well – a very high percentage of the population, and, at the same time, a large extension of territories has an extremely small population density, extremely low. Already, from the outset, let's say that what we have done..., what we have to do like the Generalitat of Catalonia, like the country, is cross-sectional... You have explained many examples of many servants, many things that escape, obviously, as we have always repeated, many times, of this council, despite the fact that you have the responsibility for territorial cohesion, eh? So, from our point of view, what we have to do as the government of the Generality is transversally, I said, act because these differences are not translated – because it is worth saying that they are – in discriminations. I think that's the point. Equal opportunities must also be guaranteed in the territorial vector; otherwise, obviously, we will have failed as society, but also as the country. In this sense, the full route that we work from the Government of Catalonia – you know – is the rural agenda of Catalonia – an opportunity for this rural world, for this more sparsely populated Catalonia – and to define as the first person this full route of presence, but also of the future, for territorial development, but also socioeconomic, environmental, still incorporating the objectives of sustainable development, which we know as CADS. And I think it is necessary to highlight how essential and essential it is to place rural areas at the centre of this debate. It's extremely essential. And it's true that we've been talking about it lately, we haven't talked about it, and obviously it's about us every time we talk about any policy of any government department. Thus, the rural agenda is building, among all, especially with those who see it – for us this is essential, it is essential –..., and they also see that the fronts of the agenda have already become vital better. If we are not able to listen to the territory in first person, ask them to come from the territory in first person, of course we will not be doing it well. And it is in this sense that the participation in the workshops that have taken place in all the territories, is to say – let me hide – has been a success. At the initial input stage a total of 4,714 proposals were made. This did not give to the participation phase – i.e., consultation and territorial debate – to finish defining rebuttal proposals in the first phase of initial input, huh? And at this stage let me also say that thematic workshops have been organized online with about seven hundred registered people – that is to say, it has not left anyone indifferent, it has not left the territory indifferent – and also territorial workshops with approximately four hundred people participating in it. In other words, everyone who wanted to, already at the individual level, were entities, associations, administrations, economic agents or social agents, could participate, could say his own. Where do we find each other now? Now we are collecting all these contributions, we are collecting all the papers to these contributions and writing the end of our country's rural agenda as well as we explained them or they explained, in this case, the four entities to which this task was entrusted to the Committee on Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries, Food and Rural Development a few weeks ago, in its parliamentary office. We say it's imperative that Catalonia's rural agenda be involved and coordinated, huh? And that is between the different levels of administration, between the territorial entities and the various agents involved in the viability of these territories. Because if it's true that this government's obligation is the impulse of action in the rural world that obviously facilitates a socio-economic development in all senses, environmentally sustainable, also..., and the responsibility must be, sense of doubt, of everyone, it must be a shared responsibility, but it must also be of governance. And that is why, since the Interdepartmental Commission on Rural Depopulation, it has commissioned the drafting of this agenda. I remember and make a statement – you also made reference – that the Association of Micropopulations of Catalonia has not formed, in part, it is in the motor committee and editor, obviously, and it plays an indispensable role; also the Association of Rural Initiatives of Catalonia, but also, at the same time, the Catalan Association of Municipalities of Catalonia, and, as I have said, under the umbrella, all folded, as it cannot otherwise be at this moment of climate emergence, of the Council Counsellor for Sustainable Development. This is not a problem that only happened in Catalonia – you know perfectly well – but it is a phenomenon that also affects other countries. Sometimes we don't have to invent, sometimes we also have to be able to copy those experiences that have worked in other countries, huh? But I also want to explain that the brand we've basically focused on is... For one band, 2018 I remember that the European Parliament adopted a very concrete resolution in Strasbourg on how to respond to the specific needs of rural areas, mountain areas and peripheral areas of the European Union, and called for the drafting of a European rural agenda that is also a milestone in this direction. And, for another band, the year 2019 France approved its own rural agenda, in this case, with two hundred specific measures for rural development. This is where we have to stop, huh? , to make all these contributions of the territory, and, finally, that we have some concrete and specific measures, and, obviously, to provide them with financing. Sense doubt– and then, in the other intervention, I will try to explain it quickly – many of them..., which you have put forward as a manifesto; it is to say, we do not have to invent anything else either. I would also like to remind you that all the pleas came from that inter-departmental commission that we all committed to doing and that I had the opportunity to preside on three occasions. And I remember perfectly when, in the end, the directors general of all the departments that are there, that are practically the totality of the government, always repeat the same things: the detection of which were the shortcomings in each of the territories was an obvious thing; what was missing now is that these shortcomings were also posed in front of the citizenry, and that it was the citizenry that considered them valid or wanted to add more. And that's exactly what we did. And speaking, therefore, of looking at other countries, the band of France, also what we have done is to make clear that it was important in the development of this rural agenda to mention the existence of the national plan for the implementation of the 2030 agenda to our country, which was obviously in full consonance also with the lines of rural development. So, the targets, huh? In all these cases, but above all on the rural agenda of our country..., the objective is clear and clear, and goes in the line of its exposition: to analyse the reptes of the rural world – all the reptes of the rural world – and to identify those actions necessary to be able to focus on the priority of policies and actions for the rural development of the next few years. These are the two targets. And why does the existence of this rural agenda really need to be? – We could do it in another way, we could do it through the interdepartmental commission... So because we know that the realities of the rural world of Catalonia are diverse, they are multiple. That is to say, when we talk about rural Catalonia, the needs are not the same as all rural Catalonia, and that is also what I want to put in store, because I think it is extremely important. And you have given examples of many different territories on the sure that the shortcomings are also different. Catalonia – our country – is a diverse territory, but there are also reptes that are common, eh? And these guys, we all know each other, too. And it is precisely these who are to be planned – these concretely – in a way, sense of doubt, strategic. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.15.0	Mr. Marc Parés has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.16.0	Well, thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for the answer and for the interest. I am aware that many of the questions we raised to him, therefore, are not the competence of their department. I also have to tell you that, well, we may have hoped that it was from the Presidency that you would respond to this type of inquiry, but in any case, we believe that it is important that you show your interest and your department for the problems of the rural world. Clearly, you are talking to me about the rural agenda, which, as you know, is therefore a project, a strategy that we share, because it is a strategic planning on interventions that end up in the rural world. But, of course, at the same time, what we see is, in the first place, that there are certain questions that need urgent answers. I've told you about the banking services, the pharmaceuticals, how we're missing the opportunity that the pandemic has given us to repopulate rural Catalonia, and how for a long time we're seeing that what we're doing is getting back to the same habits we already had, right? That's for a band. And, on the other hand, what we see is how the government prioritized other things, because the same time you talk to us about the rural agenda, the thing we see is that its big macro-project to deal with territorial development policies are winter Olympic games. And, of course, we don't just see how we guarantee all of these services at Pallars, Upper Ribagorça, Upper Urgell, Aran Valley, Cerdanya, Berlin or Ripollès, through some winter Olympic games. Is that to say, after the Olympic games, when the speculators leave, when the sportsmen leave, when the tourists they carry, all these places will have bank offices? Do they have any drugstores? Will they have the CAPs they need? Will you keep the libraries? Will they keep the cinemas? Will public transport services be effective and affordable that they need? We don't just see Olympic games in response to all these types of needs. But, in any case, we share the objective, I believe, therefore, to guarantee – said Constellera Vilagrà, precisely, makes a couple of days here at the Faristol, eh? – that you must be able to access the same levels of public services. We're in full agreement. And, in fact, not only that, but we also believe that you must be able to access the same income levels, which is another big problem. And that's why we're talking about territorial equity, because at the end of the day, empty Catalonia is also impoverished Catalonia, and that's why comprehensive responses are needed. But well, in any case, what concerns us is how we give quick and effective answers to all the problems and the lack of services that we are now raising. You also told us about the inter-departmental committee, which we also believe is a necessary tool, but, of course, we must remember that it does not happen, the past legislature, the Councilwoman Budo told us that the way, right? , that the way was..., that the project we had was the project « Live country, country of opportunity, of President Torra. I don't know if they remember. We also ask him where he is, all this; if this we have already parked him, if he has served for something. Because then we give it to Councilwoman Budo, and now I think we can see it..., it's that, in the end, it's fine to meet with the people of the territory, but if we don't get resources, if we don't have expenses..., if we don't have assumptions, then that, in the end, ends up going backwards in just a little bit. And it is in this sense that I also ask, on the assumption that we will be presented with the coming week, so whether or not there will be resources to promote territorial development policies in Catalonia which are sparsely populated. If they are, if they are not, and what will be the amount. Will the amount increase? Because right now you know that it's all insufficient or non-existent. It is true that, in the midst of all this, we have had a pandemic, but our impression, the truth, is that we are where we are and that we are not taking advantage, as I said, of the opportunities that the pandemic may have offered us to repopulate rural Catalonia. We have some proposals, don't we? We believe that it should be regular in favour of rural and sparsely populated Catalonia not from an exclusively urban and centralist perspective, as we have done in this Parliament historically. That is to say, the bulk of the laws that we have approved in this Parliament historically have had this urban and centralist look, and it is time to change this trend. And that's why specific legislation, and that's why we're proposing a territorial equity law that, among other things, you do is to guarantee rights, generate and deploy rights as a territorial equity key, because, in the end, access to all these services across the territory is a right. Also plan the services with territorial criteria, not only from each department, but, as you said, with this cross-sectional view, of the cross-sectional planning of the services. And it is true that the rural agenda, in this sense, can bring a good strategic look. Also plan comprehensive policies in the specificities of each territory. Each territory needs its own actions, but also its own resources. And that's why we make parallelism: just as we did with the barrel law, which we went to vulnerable urban areas, we made a territorial equity law where we provide a foundation with specific resources for the most vulnerable rural areas. And lastly, really boost teletreball so as not to lose the opportunity that the pandemic has given us in this sense. Thank you, Counselor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.17.0	And there's the word, in reply, Counselor Teresa Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.18.0	Thank you, President. Pares MP, notes, all the... – yes, not the see –, notes, all the suggestions. Obviously, now is the time. I explained that the rural agenda is already closing. It's also worth saying that we're not talking to the Vice President, because I think we have to land the two agendas, rural and urban. This is a country with two realities, but obviously it's the same country and we have to be able to marry him, all folded. He's made a lot of reference... to a lot of things, huh? But the bankers too. And, in this case, I would like to remind you that a motion was approved, in the general policy debate, which clearly remembers, which was aimed at boosting the financing services based on the social and cooperative economy in the rural world. This was approved. And what we have to do, therefore, is give compliment, as it cannot otherwise be, to the motions approved by this Parliament. Also in unserviced urban barrels, huh? There's also a little bit of reference, you know, but sometimes... we also have to be able not to forget that, unfortunately, there are barrels in our country, in cities or..., go, basically in cities, where there is also a sequence of faults. Let's leave it very telegraphically some of the initial reptes that it has already detected the agenda and that, therefore, without..., not detail level, but let'manage them quickly. The theme of people and well-being, sense no doubt. They are people and territories where the population is very enveloped, and here, obviously, a sequence of very concrete policies must be deployed. The democratic repte, obviously: the social structure and the enveloping with dignity, eh? And the crowd, too, of new people. Because it's obvious, too, and also the fruits of the pandemic, that we're detecting how, obviously, there's more flow. The ecological transition: very important, also, to the rural world. The connected territory, it smells like doubt. That's why we live in communities in full consciousness. Reconnect the trunks, too. He didn't talk about it today, did he? I've found it missing, but I certainly didn't have time, I'm sure I've found it missing from the last legislature, talking about agricultural policies, right? In this sense we don't have to forget... even though the rural world isn't just centered on agricultural and fishing policies, but on the other hand. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. , reconnecting the trunks of the agri-food system is, sense dubte, important. Forest management, also very and very important, and has come out repeatedly, too. It's not funny, it's not random, is it? In the end, we have a territory where 60 percent is forest, and obviously it touches in these areas. There's been a lot of talk here. There's been a lot of incident. Here, too, we will see something in the presupposition; if I have time later, I will explain it to you. Also improve the competitiveness of rural business. We don't forget each other. We do not make that mistake of thinking – here I come back – that in the rural world – nothing would happen, eh? But... – there are only, therefore, pages, pages, branches and branches. No, there are also entrepreneurs and people who, through teletreball and good connections, can develop their work activities and their life plan. Governance systems, also very important, huh? I think these governance systems need to be designed, which, in some ways, is to facilitate cross-cutting and take into account the rural areas of our country – which you have also pointed out – and which are diverse, huh? Although there are some very global reptes, there are very specific rural areas, according to which territories we speak. In short, we have the eine– we have the eine. It's obvious that we have to equip this tool. It's obvious that what we can't generate once more is frustration in the territory. Because it remains very nice to fill us, therefore, the mouth of friendly words and of the reality that we have in this country and of... Every time there is a meteorological disaster, for example, we remember the south of the country. No, that's not what I'm saying, huh? I mean, we have to be able not to create the opposite, no frustration. The rural agenda must succeed in relocating these rural areas to the centre of country policies. And this, as you very well say, must also be seen in these assumptions in a way, a sense of doubt, a transversal one. With the country we must ensure that they are not anecdotal, these motions for resolutions, as approved in the general policy debate. If they're anecdotal, they don't have any sense. The banking and postal services, which I did not talk about, but that also entered the movement...; you serve basics for our society, in short, that affect us all and everyone. I'm going to deal with this population imbalance. It's important too. To make this indefensible challenge, to make it between all and all an opportunity, a sense of doubt, a collective; an opportunity of presence, but above all also an opportunity of future. And it's time to do it now and it's time to do it now, and, more importantly, it's time to do it right. Because, ultimately, we all want a living country, we want an active country, city to city, but also – if I may, today – above all, people to people. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into public safety and the Police of the Generality - Mossos d'Esquadra]] [[302-00042/13]] Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about public safety and the Police of the Generality - Squadron Mousses. It is presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, and to expose it has the word of the deputy Mr Chakir the Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.20.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillor... We bring the following motion to the question that we made in the previous plenary, in which we talk about public safety and the police of the Generality – of the Mossos d'Esquadra – and of the local police. And I always like to remember a fact that is key: when we talk about security, we talk about guaranteeing rights and freedoms, we talk about guaranteeing individual and collective rights and freedoms. Let's talk about this binomial, that there are no individual rights or collective rights or freedoms without security, just as in a democratic society there is no security without being able to fully exercise your individual and collective rights. On repeated occasions we have asked of the Faristol in this House to the commissions of the Interior that we need a political debate of depth around security, that we want to make this debate, that we think it is a debate that is done in many societies and that is necessary, but we want a debate that is not partyist. Because when we talk about security, we talk about one of the most important public servants they give, which guarantees our rights and our freedoms. In this sense, the hope of our young man is clear and concrete, a spirit that we have worked on – and I must also place it – together with the two parliamentary groups that we support the Government. In a way... we present her, but she's a young man working together. And what we want to express is this support, this grace, this recognition to the task carried out for the members of the Squad Coast, the local police, and also all the emergency services especially during the entire pandemic, which has been an asset. Then I can evaluate some of the papers, etc., but we're in this brand; that's why I'm getting some of the papers that came up. It's also an unequivocal reminder of young people's criminalization. Security debates require deep debates, and they are very easy, the empty expressions that end up simplifying reality. And that's why we wanted to make it very clear. Also, in this sense, we wanted to place the support to the Mossos, the support to all the policies of security, answer to two areas: one, a support around the difficulties, a public recognition, but the support also needs facts, also needs concrete realities on the way forward, because they are also claims of a long time ago that they have to be approached. In this sense, we have placed some of the aspects that we think all the members of the chamber share: the right to early retirement, as they have all the other bodies and law enforcement at state level; the improvement of uniformity; the necessary increase in staffing; the improvement of technical means to finish their task correctly; ensuring continuous training and resources for the body... Basically, we agree with an objective: we want the police to be the faithful reflection of what we are as a society, of what we represent as a different society. And the way in which it is done, the way in which it is to work from this Parliament, the way in which it is to work to do this, is with concrete changes and concrete facts, which help in this exercise which must be continuous, which must be continuous in any police thing, which is self-requirement, is better, because that makes us a great cop. And that's the goal we're following. I think I'll have time, too, to talk a little bit about the papers presented. They know that we only traded one, because they broke the hope and the will we had in the movement, because they impeded in aspects that were not from the center of the movement. And because we, too, are very clear that we, from Parliament, have had our own parliamentary groups, a place in which we have a lot of confidence, we have a lot of work to do, which is the study committee, where – if I may say so, too – we will listen to opinions similar to those of each of them and listen to opinions from other countries. But all opinions are necessary, all knowledge is necessary, and a deep debate in this sense we need to do it, and we need to do it with the utmost force. After I finish placing the position before the exams. I am sure that the young lady will come out with a large majority, and that we all want to make this recognition and work it in a clear way and continue to work on security policies to improve security in our country, which is the goal that this Parliament and the Government of the Generality must always have. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.21.0	Then there is the word, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.22.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen... At this plenary session fifteen days ago we held a monogram of public security with motions from Ciutadans, PSC and Unites, VOX and the Mixt Group, to which were added the groups according to the Government with two interpellations, one from Esquerra and the other from Junts, of which only one has become a Member, which we are now debating and voting, presented by Esquerra. The ponent says they worked it together. Well, you either delegate or you think there's no such thing as security. Or perhaps Josep Costa's visit was imposed on Juntes: "It is more untenable to every court that it has made it more untenable for the generalities to continue to defend agents of Mossos who present disproportionate or disproportionate accusations. They have a right to report what they want, but not to get paid by lawyers with money from everyone. This, this little bass, pelted by one of Waterloo's most beautiful acòlits this Tuesday, November 2nd at 9:25 p.m., is an exhibition of something more than anecdotal of the vision that is part of the separatism of the police that must be serving everyone. Councilman Elena told us about her commitment to the Generality Police, to the Squadron Mosses – he's the Councilman of the Interior, we should think it's true. I think the counselor is not aware, too, that at least a good part of the opposition is not convinced that the compromise with the Squadre Mossos remains as firm as it is intended to be sold. Yesterday, the president of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Carrizosa, asked the president of the Generality about the lack of compromises in the defense of essential public servants such as the squadron moves. And he did so because we could see that the members of the Generality Police do not feel raised for their government, and still less for the groups that have formed this cohabitation government. This young man tries to cover this hole, this lack of conviction in the support of the Police of the Generality; above the trailer of the presentations for other groups of the chamber – among them, the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The counselor often says, most often, that words are important, but more important are facts. And you're right, counselor, the facts are all. I'll talk to you about a concrete fact. Just after the debate of the motions in defense of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra presented by opposition groups in the last October plenary, Major Trapero publicly claimed respect for the Generality Police. The Major at the head of the Squadron Mosses is well aware that there are many facts, many of which are to be classified in the field of successes, that cause the Mosses to be questioned by a part of the citizenry, influenced, sense of doubt, for the lack of institutional and political respect that are driving up to and all of the components of the parties that have formed the current government of cohabitation. The members of the security forces and bodies often feel disembarked, when not directly assaulted, by political leaders who are in the orbit of the Generality's rule. The authority of the police officers, who are delegated by courts and tribunals and by the government authority, is in low hours, very low. And that's what Major Trapero denounced, as we've been denouncing Citizens for months. The answer, when this is denounced in your parliament or in any area where you can't talk, is always the same: you don't have to make a moss supporter. The question is clear: is there anything more partisan than putting the Mossos as the currency of change in a negotiation to win the investiture? Citizens, as I'm sure most of the moves, we don't think so. But Republican Esquerra and Juntes did not have enough, with this; they put at the very least the public order management system without having implemented the parliamentary agreement of September 2013, which modified this public order model with a broad consensus. Now they're handling the anti-systems, the ones that made the police disclaimer one of their priorities. Certainly, if you want to make a non-partisan use of the concept of authority and a firm defense of the Police of the Generality, the worst that can be done is what they do: to let go of the rest of the forces and bones of security – in this case, to let go of the Civil Guard and the National Police. We have submitted reports, in this sense, which have not been accepted. We also wanted the Government to guarantee, always and at all times, the legal defense of the movements in all cases where there are injuries, without there being any value in the political convenience of doing so, depending on the interests of the Government or on the identity or political relevance of the aggressor. The partisan us – this yes, very real – that you as a fan have made it impossible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.23.0	Then has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Ramon Espadaler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.24.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Councillor, ladies and gentlemen... In fact, one has the feeling, reading this motion – to which we will give support, taken from a point, which we will abstain – from a certain point already seen, because, if they are looking at point by point, except for the contributions made by the group of commons, it is literally, almost – with one exception – that we have submitted to consideration of the chamber in the general policy debate: the support to the Mossos, the condemnation of action, etcetera, point by point, eh? With one exception, with a difference, that we will give support, that we do not criminalize young people; radically agree – radically agree. Then, I'd like to do the intervention, found that... I don't read them points for a matter of time, but it's literal, huh? I could do an experiment: I read our motion for a resolution and this, and I would like to see who is able to differentiate who was the author of this proposal... But I would like to do the intervention from a point where we are radically in agreement, which is the sixth point. He says: "Rejects the party instrumentalization of the Catalonia Police and is committed to conducting the debate on security outside party battles, still working for the general interest. Then, if we take into account that you say the same as the one who gave a resolution presented by the Socialist Group and Unites pour Avançar, who did partyism? Did we do it then, when we presented this, and you voted against it? In the interest of you now, of partyism, when you present this, that it is the same thing that you vote against? [[Greetings.]] Clearly, we have heard this song many times before, honourable counselor: "Escoltin, don't do partisanship, you have to do politics. What's going on? That when your political fans talk about it, and when do we talk about the opposition to partyism? We're not willing to accept this song. And this young man gives little to make a deep reflection respect this, because he says exactly the same thing – he says exactly the same thing – and, in fact, we are substantiating it and we are voting it because it was wrong. And welcome, and we applaud the correction. It was wrong, the groups supporting the government, voting against the general policy debate that day. That had consequences, including a demonstration, and now they're going to literally write the same one. To write literally the same with the difference of young people, that we give them support, and with two more differences, smaller people– smaller people–: that they see the rest of the police – and we have made a friendly, acceptable message to them–, and let's say "the group of police working in Catalonia". If you do anything to tell them... we also give support to the Civil Guard and we also give support to the National Police when they help us contain unacceptable, intolerable expressions in public order. We made it easy, but they didn't want to accept it. That's all right. But in any case, it may be more of a party, which is when we talk about security: that some cops are worth it and others aren't. Cops who, by the way, were awarded Squad Day. [[The timer laughs.]] I'm saying that because, of course, we'd have to see it all together. Therefore, this is a difference. And the other difference, minor people – and we've done one thing too, and neither have they accepted it, and this is very serious – is that defending the police is to process the actions they raise in the acts of violence, in the demonstrations. In this sense, we have already incorporated a message, and this – the things by its name – have been accepted by you that the councillor or the government will come to account for everything that has happened with that news that has left us with enough mouths, that the actions that the squad movements are raising in acts of demonstrations, of rapes, which is an extreme defence against the police: if not, what are they doing? Contain the violent, raise the corresponding acts and if they do not result in consignors... Which are then dealt with according to the law, with court proceedings, etc., and they may or may not end up being tried, but they must be processed. Not dealing with this, in short, is a great defenselessness for the police body. In this sense, we, as a parliamentary group, have asked – and the department has authorized us to do so – to be able to consult all these acts, because this is an extremely worrying issue. So, we, by the way, will give support to this young man. Not because of partyism, but because we think what we thought about the general policy debate. Welcome to groups that support the government to think the same or almost the same – with these exceptions. And we expect them to continue to support the police in all their expressions, as well as to process those expedients they make, and all the police. And to all the police, also those that you honor – and it seems extraordinarily good to me, if they deserve it, that I suppose if they did, they deserve it – on Team Day. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.25.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word the deputy Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.26.0	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, the Republican Left presents us with this motion on public security and on Mossos d'Esquadra with a number of points full of good intentions, but, as I told you at the previous plenary session, they are late and not credible. Junts and Esquerra have been ruling Catalonia – many years – for many years, and we have the worst crime and insecurity data in Spain. This is the reality: insecurity has erupted in their faces and Catalans are paying for it. Look, in the first half of 2021 we have suffered, the Catalans, a total of 176,945 criminal offences, according to the crime balance of the Ministry of the Interior: one murder per week, 265 rapes – ten per week; the last one, of a minor of sixteen years in Igualada who has been wounded and mistreated. I, Mr Elena, am angry when I always hear you say that security is protection of rights and freedoms, and not hard hand; protection of the rights freedoms of this minor, and hard hand with regard to the savages who have done it, not: iron fist, and without silk glove. Eight_thousand_eight hundred_fifty_and_eight robberies with violence and intimidation– fifty daily. And I also feel anger, and I want to express my support for two taxi drivers today. To Jacinto Martínez, Spanish, of Sabadell, assaulted on October 1 by a young Moroccan 19-year-old recently arrested this week. Yeah, yeah, for a 19-year-old Moroccan boy. And I want to... by the way, he's been broken by two vertebrae and his nose, huh? I want to remember that. And Ali, a Moroccan taxi driver also attacked on October 7 by eight Algerians until he was unconscious to steal his collection. He's got a broken hand and we'll see if he can get back to work. Protection of rights yes, but for these taxi drivers, and hard hand for their aggressors. And don't look elsewhere when criminals are illegal immigrants, because they already cry to heaven: what you want to make us see as isolated cases has become daily cases. His citizen security policies have been a major failure. Catalonia has been leading all the crime statistics of the Ministry of the Interior for years. It is the region of Spain with more crimes and more serious, with pandemic and without pandemic. And that's why since VOX a month ago we've started a safe neighborhood campaign and we're visiting every corner, every neighborhood in Catalonia, to denounce what you silence and Catalans suffer. With regard to the specific points of the motion, Mr. El Homrani, therefore, draws attention to the fact that they always exclude the security forces and bodies of the State in their motions. We have been told by all parties on this side of the parliamentary bow, with amendments to points 1 and 3. I don't know if you are aware that in Catalonia more than six thousand civilian guards and national police work. And I think: "Does it also cost so much to condemn violent actions against them and express gratitude and appreciation for their work in Catalonia as we do with the mossos d'ésquadra? [[Some applause.]] Are they aware that the security forces and bodies of the State perform very important security functions in Catalonia? The intelligence and information service, anti-jihadist operations, anti-terrorism, protection of our borders, aliens, judicial police, maritime waters, Seprona... Promote cooperation, collaboration and institutional loyalty between the Mossos d'Esquadra and the state security forces and bodies, rather than insult and constant confrontation. That is to protect Catalans with a 360-degree strategy of security – a 360-degree strategy of security. Also with local police and urban guards. And look, a final reflection on Catalonia's overall security plan, because I'm worried. The general security plan of Catalonia has expired since 2019, and it is a legal obligation that imposes on the Generalitat, the law of the management of the security system of Catalonia. The other day I told the Director General of Security Administration at the Internal Affairs Commission, Mrs Andolz. And he said to me: "That plan..., after three times, because he did not want to answer me, and at the end of the commission he already understood that he could not avoid the question, and he told me that that plan is being made and that it would already be presented. Man, I think it's important for the Home Office to set priorities, objectives, strategies, and allocate the necessary resources. And you guys don't, you're gonna jump out of the woods, hit the news, putting out fires late and bad. Come on, the plan isn't even expected. And so it is difficult, I understand, to be effective in terms of security, without setting those priorities, objectives and strategies. Because look, as Seneca said, there is no wind favorable for him who does not know where he is going. And I think you don't know where you're going, and it's very worrying, in the community that leads all the crime and insecurity rankings in Spain. Your department has a responsibility to reverse this situation. And put yourself to it, because Catalonia can't wait any longer. And yes, hard hand against those who assault women, against those who assault taxi drivers and against those who assault any good Catalan. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.27.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word now Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.28.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies... The Republican Esquerra Group presents this motion that everyone... – has explained, eh? , already – that sees from a history in which we come from a few fulls in which the different groups of dreets have presented interpellations and motions for recollection to the forces and bodies of security, and now the groups that support the Government have the need to show that they also give this support. Well, beyond... I think it's important, huh? Because then the young man went a long way on this line, and we thought we'd take another look at it. But more than that, in any case, to state that, as we have already done, in fact, supporting the Socialist Party's motion for a resolution in the general policy debate, as we have done in many of the points of the motions that we have discussed in the past, our parliamentary group condemns the aldaruls and violent actions, as it proposes in this young man; it rejects, obviously, also the criminalization of young people, and recognizes and supports the task carried out by the members of the local police and the General Police, as it could not otherwise be. Among other things, I also want to remind you here that the vast majority of the task of squadron movements has to do with citizen security, has to do with proximity and has to do with a whole series of prosecutions of crimes which, obviously, we gather and which – to say the least – do very well. That doesn't mean, therefore, that the joint of the General Police is acting perfectly, and I think we need to be aware of that. And, in this sense, we have some of the items that I'm going to go through here, huh? That is to say, when you raised this motion only trying to give an answer to the debate that had been generated, it caused basically because many of the unions in the Squadron Movements called for a series of better ones that we also gather..., this leads us to have the peril of looking only at the police model or looking only at the security of Catalonia from this perspective. Let us insist that there are many of the job demands that we think they have the full sense of the world and that we gather, but what you haven't felt is just looking at the police from that perspective. And that's why, in our papers, what we thought was to incorporate a few other elements that concern us. And we are concerned, among other things, that in one of the post-sentence mobilizations of the year 19 another of the lost eyes was caused by a foam pilot fired by the squadron movements on Urquinaona Square, which added to the damage caused to the protests at the airport – which also caused, among others, loss of sight – which added to the case of Olga – which we also knew a couple of weeks ago about the general wave, in which there were also injuries to the head – and which added, for example, also to the case of the mobilizations against the imprisonment of Pablo Hasel – where there was also another loss of life caused by a foam pilot. Therefore, we are accumulating cases, and you are refusing to correct and act. We proposed a moratorium, we proposed an amendment to the protocol, and they don't act. And as long as they don't act what we're at risk, it's exactly the fourth point of this young man, who says, "It's a reaffirmation to guarantee rights and freedoms. And right now we see a problem..., and we agree that it is not the only one, that it is not the main element of police analysis, but there is one problem that we think we need to address: it is that police action can put at risk and the right to the demonstration is at risk. To show up in Catalonia today is a risk, because you can lose an eye. And that's what it takes to give him an answer. That is why we proposed, among other things, that, in the legislative process that they proposed to initiate us, they incorporate respect for human rights as a basic value of the police. They didn't want to accept it. We have traded; in any case, we accept the transaction that it is derived from the police model, but we understand that it is difficult. I mean, we should be able to talk about human rights when we talk about the police model. In any case, two other points that we have presented, which also explained the forbearance of our group in one of the points – is what you have to see with the assumptions. For us... now you will present the assumptions, next week. We agree that there is an increase in the heading for uniformity, for the increase in effectiveness, etc., but we also believe that in this context we believe that this budgetary increase is intended – and that we have proposed it and have not accepted it – to increase the means dedicated to transparency, accountability, traceability of police activities, etc. They didn't accept that either. Therefore, we hope, therefore, that in the parliamentary debate on assumptions we can see whether or not they actually incorporate this, and in any case also see how their parliamentary support partner accepts or does not accept a presuppositional increase for all these parties without incorporating elements of transparency and accountability, which are essential for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.29.0	There's the word now, on behalf of the Group Mixt, Mrs. Lorena Roldán's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.30.0	Yeah. Good morning. Good morning, Counsellor Elena. Well, we come back today with another motion, in addition to that demonstration in which the mossos d'ésquadra and also local police claimed several of the promises that you and the previous advisors have pledged to make and that they are not carrying out. And we also talked about that loss of the principle of authority that we have been stressing also in recent weeks, because we are concerned about the issue of security, with what is happening in Catalonia. And, by the way, speaking of security, from here we condemn the sexual assault suffered in Igualada by that minor. All the support for his family, and we hope that he will recover as soon as possible, and above all that the mossos can do their job well to locate these undesirables and clarify what has happened. Well, we have tabled a number of amendments which are in line with what we have been pointing out over the past few weeks, but which, above all, also coincide with the demands being made by the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps itself. Amendments which appear to have not been of interest to the Republican Left Group. We haven't even had a chance to talk about them, and the truth is I'm sorry, because I think there were some things we could have agreed on, or I would have liked it to have been. Because, for example, you are doing here today insistence and emphasis on the issue of not using the Mossos d'Esquadra in a partisan way, which I once heard you say that the Mossos had to be part of the political debate; I don't know how to marry one thing with the other. But we, for example, add to that point point point 6 that the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps was not the subject of counter-performance in the political negotiations of the Government, basically because they were the subject of negotiation and were used as a currency of exchange. Yesterday, Mr Elena – who does not do so with her head – was constituted the Commission of Study on the Police Model, a committee of study that presides over the CUP at the request of the CUP, one of the negotiations that you arrived at in order to be able to invest Mr Aragonès as president. Another of its demands, which was to withdraw such legal assistance from that specialized body, has also been carried out. Therefore, it seems to me a little cynical to come here and ask others not to use the Mossos d'Esquadra partisanly, when you are the first to use them as currency. And, if not, what problem was there, then, in adding here«That the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra does not object to counter-performance in the political negotiations of the Government? I think there would have been no problem, if we're really all in the same line, as you're telling me today, but then reality sees it's another. This has already been approved, and this is not the first time we have said it. I also remember a motion, of December 2018, where it was literally also said: "That the Parliament of Catalonia urges the Government of the Generalitat and, therefore, the Department of Interior to reject any attempt to implement the functioning of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, which must always remain at the margin of all ideological and political controversy and to serve the whole citizenry within the margins established for the democratic legal order in its conjunction. So, it's a thing that goes from the moon. It's not the first time we've talked about not instrumentalizing the Squad Squad Squad. This has also been defended in the police council, I insist, not only now, with you as a counselor, but with other advisers. I insist that, if the way of not doing partisanship is by negotiating with the CUP issues that directly affect the work and role of the squadron mossos, then we are not doing well. And I tell you that the easy thing would have been, to leave no doubt about it, to include this amendment, but you did not want to. We have also included other amendments which were very simple amendments and which I also do not understand why they have not accepted. And, for example, I'm talking about the covid's extra pay. You, who always repeat that you are very grateful for the work of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra... yourself, days before that demonstration we were talking about, said that it would have been very difficult to contain the pandemic if it had not been for the action of the mossos d'ésquadra, and in that we fully agree, especially in situations as complicated as that of Odena. If so, why is that promise that you made, in the police council, to the director of the police, not to gratify them with that extraordinary pay? Because sometimes words aren't enough, Mr. Elena. Thank you very much for your word, but it is also good that this involves an action and that those promises are fulfilled, because, if not, the promises remain in the water of drunkards. Also the subject of early retirement, which we have also talked about, which you tell me will do everything possible. If you are going to do everything you can, I would like to reiterate to you the same thing: the budget item by collecting the over-quotition in these budgets now, which will be presented next week. I tell you that this amendment is going to be found in the budgets of the People's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.31.0	Next, to fix his position, he has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle to Win, Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.32.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Some questions respect this young man. We don't share the general feeling of the young lady. As other groups have already said, we believe that it is an extension of a concrete focus on security that is marked by a will that we understand and understand tactically, to calm the eagles, and also by a game that can be perilous when playing the right, the extreme right Spanishist, or this councillor of the alternate government – self-named "alternative government" – which is carrying in the day-to-day of its interventions the police issue with few interests in favor of security or the police and certainly with many party interests. That said, we think that this cup can be extended forever – for which we saw it yesterday, it seems that we will continue to expand it to the very Ple –, and I think it is not of interest to expand it in those terms or to continue to talk to it in those terms. Therefore, we will try to go ahead with the proposal and celebrate questions that were raised yesterday, which is the commission of the police model. That said, respect the young man, we ask for a separate vote, it is when it is – we don't know if it will be the first hour of late, the last in the morning or when it will be. In any case, we ask for a separate vote and we will have just made this clear. And from here on out, we're talking about the young lady. For the sake of legitimacy and authority, we cannot share that citizenship is to be formed for legitimacy and authority, because it is not a question of formation. There's a question from the authority who buys the law, as I think I've already commented in a previous intervention, that we have both the deputies and the deputies as well as the officers of the police, and the legal part is written to the law. The moral or legitimate part is based on the actions of the police, the actions of the Interior Department and the responses given when there are bad practices, which must be extremely rapid and extremely forceful and extremely transparent, because, if not, that is how authority and legitimacy are lost. Another way to lose authority or legitimacy is to pass on to Raval himself now, where a family with two minors went to accompany the children to school and when he was no longer home, because he was unannounced without notice. This is also a loss of authority and legitimacy, if the police are the ones who end up executing these orders. And here they have to donate political solutions, and they have to donate Parliament and the government. Another element that leads to the lack of authority and legitimacy are questions like what we saw the other day, which Albert García absolved, a journalist who was detained for the National Police – I remember we also talked about it a few hours ago. That's where they called him a criminal and two days ago he was acquitted, so you'd better apologize and rectify. [[some applause]] because this is also a loss of authority and legitimacy. And another loss of authority and legitimacy is that the Generality kept an accusation, all that downgraded, yesterday, against three of Lledoners' nine prosecutions, despite the fact that the proper agents of the Squad Moose Cos declared the day before they could not recognize any of the defendants as the perpetrators of the injuries. Here mechanisms must be articulated so that this does not happen. We can hear the minimum agreements we've reached. We can hear the limitations of the government's approach. But in any case, what we don't understand and what is incomprehensible is that a lawyer from the Generality, after his own agents have said that they don't recognize any of the defendants for the injuries, keeps an accusation, even though lowered, of injuries, because the Generality's accusation will be six months, but that of the prosecution is five years old. And that also affects. That said, let's look at the future, let's talk about a model of security, let's talk about a different focus, and let's not fall into the trap of the right, the extreme right, or this alternating government of a package that tries to distort debates, that tries to bring to its land a question of security. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I don't think it's bad for me, huh? It makes me a bit of alien shame, anyway. And so we move forward on this police model commission, we move forward on changing proposals, and we move forward on this one-hundred-and-a-half-degree turn, which is not only essential, but it is necessary to do so urgently, and it is what can lead us, in any case, to gain this authority, to gain this legitimacy and to make a model of security for the entire population, and not forever, and not at the cost of the strongest, as always. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.33.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mrs Mercè Esteve's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.34.0	Good afternoon, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors... First of all, by allusions, Mr Matías Alonso, you referred to a tweet about who was vice president of this Parliament and who suffers from repression for allowing, here, that you can talk about everything. [[Some applause.]] And, on your behalf... we who are here think, in a large majority, because we regard ourselves as the Mossos de Esquadra, the Catalan police, and we want you to be exemplary and fully democratic. [[Some applause.]] Before the House, we find ourselves in front of a working House, as the company said, drafted and agreed between Junts and Esquerra Republicana, the result of our interrogations to Councilman Elena in the past Ple of Parliament. A young man who has the will to express clearly and openly the support of this Parliament to the police in Catalonia and to the services of emergencies, in order to offer with the maximum guarantees the security that our citizens need, respecting the rights and freedoms of each individual, and who wants to aggravate professionalism, effort and rigour with those who have worked throughout the pandemic. Because destructive and partisan criticism is easy, from non-government responsibility, and more when the practice does not put all the cards on the table. We find ourselves with an estimated debt of almost 700_million euros from the Government of the State for the improvement of the structure and to make effective the pocket of the police of Catalonia. Meanwhile, here we play to provoke bad horror to promote fires to some bodies that have already suffered greatly over the last few years. Mr. Swordler, proceedings and proceedings in general policy debates are very different from ordinary plenary sessions, and you know it, and you've played it. And, in addition, the management of the effects of the pandemic, the growing public disorder caused by hate crimes and the urgent need for better education in respect for others have strained the police structure. So, we need to work hard for the best of our police, looking forward and with the firm will to do it well, but not denying or disorienting the body. They're working together, they're working together. Society needs us. Once again, guarantee early retirements to the Squadron's Cos de Mossos. This is a subject that we have talked about and that is about to be resolved, and that still affects, today, only our Squad Ways and the Navarra Foral Police. We've already put this question in the store, and today we haven't spoken in this room, and it's in the hands of the Spanish government. If we really want to work firmly for the Catalan people, we work folded for the better quality, security and rights of everyone. The Catalonia Public Security Survey of the year 2020, presented recently to the Commission d'Interior, points to police services with a 7.3, which denotes a high degree of confidence of our citizenry towards the Catalan police. Therefore, strengthen it, allocate resources to it in the continuing formation and show it the respect it deserves, without going beyond the functions that are its own. We thank him and recognize his task, but above all we put him at the disposal of the necessary tools, such as the control mechanisms, which are available to verify facts and the improvement in the preparation of the attestations, which he asks us to criticize ourselves, so that we do not need to see any more judgment like this week for the new Lledoners. It must be ensured that there is no disproportionate action on the part of anyone. Sometimes it seems like it's all gone. As the more vulnerable it seems that the rights of our citizens may be, the more distorted it seems that the actions or events can be produced. So, we guarantee the truth for everyone's sake. And, above all, let's go for work: so much partyism, so much use the bodies of the police in Catalonia. Let them work and let us not fall into the danger of weakening the credibility and structure of the body, which formed to serve us, since, if we do not, we will lose much like the country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.35.0	In order to pronounce on the papers, Mr Chakir the Homrani has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.36.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies and deputies... I'd like to have thirty minutes, but I have two. And I know you don't want me to have 30 minutes, huh? [[the timer riu]] But I'd love to have 30 minutes. First of all, I think Congresswoman Esteve has already set it up, and Congressman Swordler, the honourable Member Swordler, knows it: the rules of the general policy debate game and the debate of a young man are different. You can today abstain from a point and point of which point. We didn't agree with your young lady. You know perfectly well, because we talked about it. I think, to be honest... And that's what we've said to all places, just like... The same way I told the squadrons that we defended the decision that the government took at the time of legal defense – and that we're still defending it – I say in this one, because we defend the same position before everyone else. We don't just want to say what he wants to listen to, and I think it's important to do it. Second, I think if we don't understand that asking for no party is the opposite of asking for no political debate, and especially in the area of security, we all have a problem. I, mirin, shall speak of a given linked to the identity of persons, to the multiple identities of persons, and linked to criminality. A given that, unfortunately, is not said and that asks us all: the hundred_percent of the sexual assaults that are given in this country by fans of men, says Sergio, Chakir or Jordi. And that's the issue you're asking all of us. [[Greetings.]] This is the subject that is being asked by all of us: we are being asked by victims and asked by them to respond to this situation. And don't demagogic – and don't demagogic – because those who talk about the hard hand don't say it, those who talk about the hard hand don't say it, those who want to live – who want to live – don't say it. And that's what I'm telling you: Ask us all. Because we're defending a modern squad moss model. We defend the body, because it has done a brutal job in better ways than fighting male violence, and that's what I've experienced in person, and they've done very well. But we are also aware that there are things that need to be improved, and, therefore, the first ones who are aware of it are their own. And I'm saying that because I've only seen – and the president, I finish –... I've only seen a cop with a uniformed thing in an interview say that there's a problem, that it's a minority problem but that sometimes happens, that it's that they give racial identifications. And the only cop I saw him do it was a member of the Squad Coast, and that's a brutal bravery. And that's what we should be proud of, too, because it happens. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.37.0	Okay. So, over with the debate, I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to be late, as indicated by the plenary's hourly sequence, but I'm going to pick up the separate voting petitions at this point. Mr Pellicer had not asked me, but he had not made it clear for five points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.38.0	Yes, thank you, President. We could jointly vote on points 1, c, d and e. Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And, then, we could also vote together on points 3, 4 and a. Yes; 3, 4 and a. Yeah, right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.39.0	3 and 4.a.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.40.0	No: 3, 4 and a.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.41.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.42.0	Thank you. [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.43.0	Yes, Mrs. Roldan?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.44.0	Yes, President. We would ask for a separate vote from the point a and point b, which cannot go together. [[Ramon Espadaler Partners asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.45.0	Did Mr. Swordler also ask for a separate vote?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.46.0	Madam President, we would call for a separate vote on point b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.47.0	B.. - No, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.48.0	Be de« Barcelona. [[Sergio Macián de Greef asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.49.0	And Mr. Macian?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.50.0	Thank you. Yes, we would ask separate vote from point 1, separate vote from point 5 and from letters to ib. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.51.0	All right. [[Matías Alonso Ruiz asks to speak.]] Mr. Alonso?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.52.0	Yes, President. We shall ask for a separate vote by electronic mail.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.53.0	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.54.0	We'll get them the petition by e-mail.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.55.0	Oh, okay. [[David Cid Colomer asks to speak.]] Mr. Cid?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.56.0	In order to ask for a separate vote on points c and d, they should vote separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.57.0	Perfect. Thank you very much. So, once the last point of the order of the day is substantial, we will vote on the motions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into T-mobility]] [[302-00043/13]] Let's move on to the division of the order of the day, the motion following the inquiry to the Government on T-Mobility, presented by the Socialist and Unites Parliamentary Group for Progress. To expose her, Mr. Jordi Terrades has a word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.58.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, I have the impression – probably, I'll be sorry, it's a subjective impression of the deputy who's talking to you, isn't it? – that some technical officials who have been long these years, who are responsible for T-Mobility, take the citizens for babysitters – and, moreover, listening to some statements from later weeks – and do not see that probably stupidity is in its vanity or in its ineffectiveness long these years. Why did we ask him, Mr Vice-President, and why do we support the motion that we have tabled for Parliament's consideration today? First, because they've been lost many years, and this way... I don't know if they've been lost, but we've had to put a lot of money on this project, haven't we? I don't want to think about other things, but it's been a disaster, it's been a mismanaged project. Some of you, who always teach lessons... have been a mismanaged project. They started – their words – with 58_million euros in cost of the project and more than twice as much, and with a T-Mobility without working. In any other project, honourable Members and honourable Members, we would already be talking about misrepresentation of public resources. And I can accept..., groom, I can accept them, huh? , Vice President, that you're poorly planted by iniciators, this project. One time a communist mayor, of the French Communist Party, of the Paris rolling stock, visiting some incinerators of energetic valorization of industrial waste – in had three, in tea three – said to me: "What is not possible from the public thing is that it catches you with a contradiction or with a true _mitja, because after the project does not arise. At these heights, everyone knows that this project at the moment is a fiasco. And the most problematic of all is that no one wants to take responsibility or make them take responsibility, huh? They don't want to take responsibility or make them take responsibility. Neither have we seen, Vice President, substantial parts of the contract that was signed with Soc Mobility. We believe that the lack of transparency in the length of these seven years has been and is one of the defining elements of this project – for this reason, therefore, this young man, asking that he be present in Parliament documentation, right? This is not a win-win, public-private collaboration project, at least for the Administration – at least for the Administration. Because, for which he leaked from the last audit of Soc Mobility's accounts – which, by the way, even Railways of the Government of Catalonia did not sign them and did not endorse them–..., they indicated that this could not continue as the company in operation. We also know that CaixaBank has said that it does not intend to provide more additional funding. Therefore, coming to this point, there are many economic and technological questions that need to be fully transparent. Because a new tariff system based on displacements and on our use we believe that it is essential, and that the public transport of Catalonia needs it. At this stage of the project, with so many resources spent, we do not think that we should start again from scratch, even though you see that they feel that it should be the most convenient. We don't believe it. Now, what we do need – and for that..., the reason for this young man – is more transparency, more explanation, and contrast it. And, above all, there can be neither shadows nor more surprises. And if there are any more surprises in terms of cost increases, let someone come to Parliament and explain it. We are complaining about what we believe so far has not happened, which is political and technical leadership, and, if necessary, changing those responsible for this project. Who can do it, obviously, is you, from the government. Once again, as we have seen, we have lost confidence in these moments in Soc Mobility, because also, of the conglomerate of entrepreneurs that form this consortium, no one has explained what has happened over these seven years. And, therefore, the conclusion is that what we are asking is that there is more clarity and transparency and that the whole project from the very beginning to the situation that has brought us at these times is explained.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.59.0	To defend the papers presented has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, the deputy Lord Eugeni Villalbí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.60.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, deputies, deputies, T-Mobility had to arrive to change the paradigm, the concept of traveling to public transport to Catalonia. And I'm saying it had to come, because the feeling is that it never came. If we look at the trajectory of these years, we see how the project started in 2014 had to be put in March 2016; later, a new announcement for 2017; 2018..., 2018 we are talking about 2020; we are at 2021, it has not just arrived. And now, it seems to be that by 2022 we'll be leaving. There has been a thorny path that has not yet finished, where we have found ourselves more than six years of planning – some justified; others, it really costs us to hear. And during these years we've seen everything: we've seen contract modifications with increased costs for operators; we've seen compensation to the company that will manage for project delays; we've seen the other way around, penalties to the company for project delays as well. In short, it is an unsustainable delay. For all this, and to ensure maximum transparency in a project like this, and because of the work we are having with the department, we are seeing that now that a realistic scene is being set up, with possibilities to complete and with a project that can be completed this year, our vote will be in favour of all the points of the motion put forward for the Socialist Party in favour of transparency, and that the T-Mobility is set aside without further delay. During my speaking time, I will not insist more on delays, or mistakes on the web, or on cost overruns or other questions that, surely, other groups that already have us accustomed to focus only on negative questions and constant criticism will already be flattered. As I said, we will vote in favour of the motion, because we trust the government's plans at the inn outside this initiative. To which I would like to refer is to another part of the project – for us, the most important – the real transformation element of T-Mobility, which is not just the technological element, but the new tariff system that will have to accompany T-Mobility. A fair tariff policy in favour of public transport. For us, this is the real T-Mobility change. A tool that should mean a new point of inflection in public transport to Catalonia, as it did at the time, in 2001, tariff integration, multiplying, as had never been seen, the quantity of users and displacements in public transport to our country. And we have to do this, from one band, because we need, in the sense that we introduced it into our agenda, a new tariff system, see that it is an opportunity to introduce fairer tariffs, and, from another band, because we believe that, in a climate-emergency context, the impulse of public transport is the best guarantee for reducing emissions and decarbonising our country. The objective is to arrive at a new transport line that ends with a tariff per area, which does not cease to be arbitrary, and that works according to the real mobility of citizens and citizens, without needing to resort to multiple transport titles; that calculates the price of public transport in a personalized way: each person pays according to the transport routines, the used kilometers and the frequency that you do with trains, buses, trams, or metro. A change that has to simplify the life of the user, improving who makes it serve with high frequency, or, for example, lowering the price of public transport to penalize private transport in periods of high atmospheric contamination. This new tariff is forced to recover users, after the fall caused by the pandemic, and to reach levels that involve sustainable mobility, in general, and, as I said, to make a historic leap in public transport to our country. But it must also, and above all, allow a new, fairer social tariff to be introduced. After the pandemic, elements came to stay: teletreball. We cannot penalise those workers and workers who, despite being recurrent users of public transport, for the sake of teletreball are prejudiced by the tariffs of their public transport. We must also incorporate the reality of so many young people who use public transport to our country. We need to improve the lower returns and we also need to introduce a feminist perspective in public transport, since they are the main user of public transport. This parliamentary group will want to know with time the structure and the algorithm of these tariffs; for transparency, too, to ensure that all agents and actors can ensure that it is really a fair tariff system; to ensure that what happened a few years ago does not happen, in meetings between the Department of Territory and the Barcelona Assembly with the new tariff system, at the beginning of 2020, which we then had to re-adjust for not having done things well from a principle, with sufficient transparency. We will vote in favour of the motion, because we understand that we give confidence to put the T-Mobility in order. We give confidence just to regain confidence in public transport. But we claim, at the same time, that the final pricing and the T-Mobility business models are applied in a transparent, open manner, with the maximum social benefits and with the participation of all the agents and the whole territory of the country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.61.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, the deputy Mr Andrés Bello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.62.0	Good morning, Madam President. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen... you bring to this Parliament today the T-Mobilitat project, one of those issues that our politicians tend to brag about, because you can put into your explanation all that technological talk you like to brag about. So, Mr Vice-President, who today honours us with his presence, he spoke to us at the last session of the modern, advanced and digital aspects of this project. But what is the reality? The reality is that the initial price was EUR 58_million and it seems that more than EUR 100_million has already been spent. In the tests of this project there has been a problem of computer security and personal data has been filtered from voluntary users. And worst of all: it is a project that began in 2013 and to date is still in the development phase, to call it something. Eight years and no results have yet been achieved. Eight years, over 100_million, no results. We are faced with one more case of disastrous management of separatist parties, which fill their mouths with grandiose words, tell us of grandiose plans, impressive strategies, cutting-edge technologies, even satellite launch bases at Lleida airport. And behind this there's nothing but smoke, it's pure facade. Yes, their fantasies cost Catalan citizens hundreds of millions of euros every year. It is very likely that if this project started in 2013 would have been much less ambitious, more reasonable, it would already be working long ago. But wisdom and good governance is not a characteristic of what our separatist rulers enjoy. In his last speech to this plenary, the Vice-President dared to disregard the similar projects that other European cities, such as Paris, London or Berlin, have carried out. Or even those that Renfe has put into operation elsewhere in Spain, where its proximity service is not managed by the autonomous community as here in Catalonia. But what is the reality? That in those places that Mr Vice-President despises there are already much more advanced access and payment systems and in Catalonia, gentlemen, we continue with a cardboard card. Land, separatist gentlemen, wake up from your absurd Republican dream and devote yourselves to managing day-to-day affairs. And if they don't know how to do it, let go of others. [[Greetings.]] I would like to highlight a statement made to us by the Vice-President in the above-mentioned speech, in the previous question, where he said, textually – I will read –: "It is certainly not Madrid's fault in this case, I am already making it... Surprising! Finally, a secessionist politician does not blame Spain for one of its failures. It's also true that then, in the speech, he tried to blame the gentlemen on this side, didn't he? « it is the fault of the City of Barcelona, of the metropolitan area..., but well, that is already another story. We believe that the Government of the Generalitat should explain the total cost of the project, which companies are benefiting from the extra costs and the reason for each of the extra euros spent on the contract price; also, who are the owners and managers of each of these companies; and the causes of the delay and the criminal files that have been processed against the responsible companies, if any. They must explain the causes of the leak of information, the degree of security of the project and what measures will be taken to improve it, before it is put into production. And citizens should be informed of the expected date of the T-Mobilitat, if they know it, that I doubt it. In conclusion, we believe that this exercise of transparency is important, so we will vote in favour of this motion. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.63.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mrs Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.64.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Well, with regard to this motion submitted for the Socialist Party, we will vote in favour of the motion, except for the third point, which we will abstain from because of its vagrancy. In the third point, you say: « Ensure that the Metropolity Transport Authority and its public operators will drive the management of T-Mobility. Yes; but this impulse of management..., managed it can be direct and indirect; you all do... Yes they speak of public operators, of the Authority of Metropolity Transport, but managed it let it be so, without concrete if it can be direct and indirect. And, therefore, we, before this inconcretion, can only abstain. What's this about T-Mobility? So, as you know, the Department of Territories and Sustainability leads this project, driven by the Metropolity Transport Authority – the AMB –, public operators TMB and Railroads, and gives up the design, implementation, later management of these technical systems of databases and also of attention to users, in October 2014, to a UTE, a temporary union of entrepreneurs, formed by the "Caixa, Indra, Fujitsu and Moventia, which acts under the umbrella of a society that is called the Catalan Society for Mobility, SA. What passes, that the commercial name, that remains better, is SocMobilitat. Therefore, all this is articulated through a contract of collaboration between the public and private sectors, which we were listening to today for the part of our colleagues who have always been..., right? , which is a good formula for this public-private collaboration, but from the CUP what we see is that whenever we have on the table examples of public-private collaboration, so they end up being an absolute disaster, as is the case with the management of T-Mobility. In any case, for the assurance and reliability and security in technological development, we will vote in favour. And we do want to take advantage of this road to emphasize the idea that... from the CUP we add to the idea of public money/public code, which is promoted by civil society. What do you mean, that? What an interest it is to give support to free programming and open code to public administrations. Because free and open programming is a public, modern good, which allows everyone to use it freely, study it, share it and improve its applications. Free program applications provide that we are not trapped in private company hands and ensure that all codes are accessible to solve security issues. If public bodies are financed with public money, we have to make the funds always spend the most efficiently. And the most efficient way to spend these funds is through public programming. We can't leave... donating lawsuits to big corporations. And more, taking into account that all this know-how has, above all, come from the knowledge, precisely, of subway workers, and that these corporations want to privatize and capitalize on their own benefits. We ask ourselves why the T-Mobility project has to be managed by a private company. It is a question that we ask ourselves and, therefore, that we have not just heard why this formula was chosen. For what he does at the point of the motion concerning presenting in his parliament the detailed report of all the contracts and all the costs, therefore, obviously we can only agree. We wear many years late, with an absolute opacity. When it was implemented, this was done without calling a citizen's participatory process. In fact, there are only a few months to implement the T-Mobility and we are missing institutional campaigns that talk more about this project. Looks like she's carrying everything with a species of silence that's worrying. We believe that we are in a case of a lack of private capacity to execute this project; that there has been an absolute bust in the contract; that a whole series of penalties are being paid acristically, and that, as I said before, it is a clear example of a failure of public-private collaboration. Finally, we want to make them guess that there is a web page, powered by social movements, by the Stop Pujades Platform, Criptica, Pirates of Catalonia and COS, where you are doing this job of fighting against opacity, which has not been done by the Administration. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.65.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.66.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, well, our parliamentary group will give full support to the points raised in this motion, because we understand that it is a question of transparency and above all because we believe that we need to move forward in solving the problem. The T-Mobility, as explained, in the end it was no longer..., wasn't it? , we could reduce it to a project of making a concession to generate a device that allows to aggregate different titles in a single tag, which can be of plastic, of carter or an application to the mobile; with the timing, certainly, of a change of tariff paradigm that actually, therefore, could be revolutionary and that could make us move forward a lot. Actually, he was a revolutionary seven or eight years ago, now he's definitely not that much, huh? It is obvious that the project was a disaster, that is, that the execution of this project was a disaster. It's obvious, too, counselor, that you're not responsible for all this, and it's true that you're the one who has to solve it. But I will be allowed to wander the original sin – and it has been done, a little, now also reference in the intervention of the group that preceded me, eh? That's to say, this is a grant to SocMobility, which is a conglomerate of entrepreneurs: Indra, CaixaBank, Move and Fujitsu. The first question that we would have to ask ourselves – and that was also asked by Mrs Vinyets – is whether she really wanted to make a concession to do that. We don't think so. I mean, we think that's the first problem. It doesn't tie a grant to this business conglomerate to make the T-Mobility project. Therefore, we believe that this is the origin of the problem. And I put the accent here because actually this is the model, isn't it? , which we have already seen distributed to our home, especially in infrastructure, but not only; but it is the model of motorways, concessions in which great dealers make great benefits with the performance of some services that do not correspond to the benefit they do and that in many cases they do not have the quality of the service we would need, as is the case with T-Mobility. But not just on highways, but also on bus lines. We have a concession from the vast majority of bus lines, in this country, from twenty-five years old, girls the year 2001, which will win if I am not mistaken now in 2026, which opens a great opportunity for us, certainly, to change the paradigm of mobility, too. But again, concessions that greatly limit the possibility of public intervention, of regular timetables, of regular frequencies, of improving services, because we are in the hands of a concession in public-private law that generates many benefits and that greatly limits the possibilities of public intervention. Therefore, we question, from the outset, the model. Secondly, this concession, from which there was CaixaBank, as we have commented, well, initially it turns out that it allowed T-Mobility only to be made through CaixaBank. Fortunately, this has changed. Also, he handled the data, didn't he? , the data information was going to stop at this SocMobility. Fortunately, this has also changed. But at the same time, also, the later modification of the multiples that there have been is that the T-Mobility had to incorporate the current tariff system in a transitory way, which we believe was an error, because this meant integrating eighty pre-existing titles, with its correspondents different operators from the service, into a single device. It seems that this is very complicated, which also surprise us, because in full 21st century and with the technological capability we have to do so many things in so many camps, so... they surprise us that this is so difficult to do technologically. In any case, what we believe, as I said, is that the problem must be solved; therefore, we must demand that the project be completed, that T-Mobility be a reality and that we can actually carry out the new tariff system that Catalonia needs. Why the change in the tariff system, rather than actually being more just, so why will it allow us, for example, to end the crowns, right? , arbitrations, will allow us to adjust the payment to mileage and recurrence – very important, too – but will also allow us to have a system that can be useful for all Catalonia. Because, right now, the memory that sixty per cent of the municipalities are outside of the integrated tariff system and, therefore, are giving enormous injustices outside of what is the integrated metropolity tariff system. Therefore, we need a system that we give to all types of transport, but also to the whole country, and a tariff system, has been said before and we believe that it is very important, which allows, therefore, social tariff and, therefore, environmental tariff. So this is the challenge we have and we can't waste any more time, we can't wait. So the project pulls forward and it's solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.67.0	Thank you, Congressman. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the honourable Member Marina Bravo has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.68.0	Thank you, President. Members, deputies, councillor, well, what a new topic, moreover, this one of the T-Mobilitat; we had never talked about it here. We did not mention either that... when I saw that there was a motion on the subject, I recovered some of the papers that I had already used in the past, in other speeches here in plenary or in committee, and that some of you will surely remember. But I think it's important to remember how long we've been chasing this project. Look, I'm not teaching you anything: "Transport targets will unify in 2014 into a single model with no contact technology. This news is from 2013. In 2013 this project was awarded and at that time, because both the successful tenderers and the technicians themselves of the Government of the Generalitat who tendered the project, who knew its complexity, who already talked about it being much more than changing a cardboard card, because, for a plastic, they estimated it to be a complex project and that it needed two years, from 2013 to 2014. At that time there was Councilman Santi Vila. It was he who announced it and who announced that he would be ready during his term. But he finished the legislature and didn't do it. The project had not been carried out and he was transferring this project to him..., he considered it to be so important and that he was so close, so touching, that at the transfer of the councilman he was transferring a T-Mobilitat to the next councilman. That was in 2014, and it went on: "T-Mobilitat takes another step to activate if in 2015, okay? In 2013 it was thought that there were two years to go and in 2014 it seemed that there was a little bit to go – only a little bit to go, a few months to go – and that in that 2015, it would be already in May. Of course, in 2013 they didn't get very well, but if in 2015 they thought there was a little bit left, then I don't tell them how well they got. « T-Mobility will start working at the end of 2016. Three-quarters of the same. I mean, it's not that we know we have a complex project ahead of us, it's that it looks like it's already – it looks like it's already. Maybe some miscalculation has been made. "T-Mobility is closing its implementation in 2017, and will be presented to the Mobile World Congress. See if things have happened that we don't even know if we have more Mobile World Congresses in this city. "T-Mobility will be deployed in Barcelona at the end of 2018. One more step. And here the Barcelona City Council is already at stake, which is not that it has helped much, really, with this project. « T-Mobility will be no in Barcelona already, to all Catalonia, late 2019. Every year, a little more – every year, a little more. It's a very nice project and it's complex, but, come on, so complex so complex so complex so complex that when they estimate that there are a few months left years and years and years... "T-Mobility will reach this 2020, but the tariff change will have to wait, what our colleagues commented. And Councillor Calvet, then, puts 2021 on the full functioning of the T-Mobilitat. When do we get it now? When will we have it? Now it looks like it's starting to start..., it's starting to start in Barcelona's Metropolitan Area. I'd like to know when we'll have it all over Catalonia. I don't know if they'll ever be able to answer that. It is a beautiful and complex project too, we recognize it, but not so much. And it is precisely those who say that if they manage everything, everything would work so well, those who have made this project, which should last two years, take what is taking. And this project is that it accumulates, therefore, the same deficiencies, the same problems as all those that are carried out by this Government of the Generalitat: overcosts, like line 9, like the channel Segarra-Garrigues – already said here comrades –; delays, and, above all, something very characteristic of this Government, which is a lack of absolute direction. We, this Government, do not know where it is going; we do not know whether to bet on the C-32 or not; we do not know whether to bet on the airport or not – for the expansion of the airport–; we do not know whether to bet on increasing the wind power park in Catalonia or not – we do not know –; we do not know whether it is about to recover the tourism or not. Or we do not know, either, on a subject that affects this project very much and that is the cause of the delay, therefore, whether it bets on public-private collaboration or not. We know absolutely nothing, because the only thing that unites this Government is a slab, which affects it and affects us all Catalans, which is the slab of the process. We hope that the day will come when we can get rid of that slab and that Catalonia will have a government that will bet on something that will unite us all Catalans and that is not that slab, but solving the problems that affect us all: solving employment problems, solving waiting lists problems, solving the problems of aid to companies in order to get ahead. We hope that this moment will come soon and that we can move on from this Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.69.0	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mrs Eva Parera has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.70.0	Thank you, President. Well, good morning to everyone. You see, mobility is directly and narrowly connected, logically, with contamination, with productivity, with cost savings, with efficiency; it is an important issue. And it doesn't understand and it's absolutely inexplicable the technological and operational delay that T-Mobility is patenting, that the truth is that you say very little about public management in such a key issue as mobility is precisely, isn't it? Here we are failing the citizenry. It is clearly failing the citizenry, because this is a demand from citizens many years ago, and it is not being given the correct answer by the Administration. And frankly, we can't assume it's an innovative territory and fail in the most basic, can we? That's donating a mobility service. Here we find ourselves with a topic that is more of an example of how administration, in this case Generality and together – we have also discussed it many times in the Barcelona Assembly –, it is beyond responsibilities and it is beyond mutual blame. Moreover, if there is another administration added to the equation, which is the Authority of Metropolity Transport, which therefore sees, a little, to put more batibull into inefficiency and more delays. And, besides, we're talking about the lack of transparency in why the delay and why the bad works, right? And in the end, they pay for it, and we pay for it, more than three million inhabitants in the metropolitan area. It says that the project is very complex and that this, therefore, excuses its delay. That's a very bad excuse. The reality is that the delay is due to poor management and a lack of coordination between administrations. And it is not acceptable that administrations do not know or want to agree on the most basic, that it is giving a service to the citizen. Today we find that reality will leave us with an obsolete T-Mobility, with an absolutely obsolete technology. T-Mobility was a priority as of 2014 – it was said before by other companies here in Parliament – and it was meant to be a revolution in the tariff system and management, and the reality is that it will end up feeling a terrible fiasco, comparable only to L9, which is another fiasco. We will give our vote in favour of this motion, because, in a sense of doubt, it is an audit and a response to what is really going on with this project. It's not normal that it's so late in operating a mobility target that it's operational, that it's effective and that it's useful, and that today, unfortunately, we still don't. Therefore, our vote in favour of this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.71.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mrs Cristina Casol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.72.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone. We're in front of a new motion on T-Mobility. It is a project that has actually been encouraged in its implementation for various reasons, and this is clear, especially, when an understanding and empathizes with the project, because, given its magnitude and its technological complexity, it can be seen that at the time it was very optimistic when it talked about terms for its implementation. But today we do it in a very different situation, because, since June, many people have their T-Mobility in evidence. And here are the advances that we will be voting for the young lady, including the puzzle, with the firm will to continue to advance on this project. And it is not possible to hold the current government, which carries three_months, of the non-installation in the march, because precisely it is what this government has done, to put in the march the T-Mobility. The T-Mobility is managed, managed efficiently, the best managed for the public transport of Catalonia. And it's excellent because it's very simple, it simplifies management a lot. T-Mobility is a radical change in the way we have to serve public transport to Catalonia. With it, soon we can move across the country with a high-security digital system that will allow us a non-contact technology format, with a virtual mobile tag or a tag with a rechargeable tag. Pay according to distance the recursguts. And this is a very important point, because it's paying according to the recurred distance measured as it will, and paying the recurrence of the journeys as a repetition of these. It can be paid with different systems. Do it, as always, with pre-payment; do it with post-payment, with banking domicile; do it with recompense for the mobile or simply pay with the mobile. At the same time, you can also have real information about the state of public transport, on time and online, at the same time. But there's still a lot more. There are great changes in T-Mobility that are invisible to the user because they are oriented in the overall management of the data obtained. At the same time as we are passing through we will get very reliable information, and with which we will be able to make a global planning with much more knowledge of the state of public transport. It is a system that therefore controls all validations to the territory, and this control is done in real time, and allows planning with great care and very efficient public transport. It is a country project that embraces all modes of public transport, that starts in Barcelona and throughout its metropolitan area, and that will eventually spread throughout Catalonia like a tac d'oli. I said when I started my intervention that we're in evidence. Today, we are at the first crown and with few transport titles, but gradually, in a few months, we will tend to Barcelona's seven crowns, and for all the titles, and after all the domain. We will eliminate, then, crowns, infinite of transport titles, but we must keep in mind that for a while we will have a coexistence of the two systems, the analytic and the digital, and that we will need to wait a little until we have unified the entire tariff system. As a result, as I said, I voted in favour. And, above all, it is not left to influence by sluggish opinions that speak of us finding ourselves at higher costs, that they are large enough, because there must be more machinery for a better and better service. And, also, the government has paid nothing for all this, the operators have done it, that will charge in a future with the sale of the tickets. Because what we really want to govern is to finish the T-Mobility project in a transparent and completely unequivocal way. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.73.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In the late term, to pronounce on the exams, has the word the deputy Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.74.0	Thank you, President. You know the Republican Left Congressman I'm gonna take the money, right? , because it is obvious that we believe in the need for a new tariff system, a new tariff model, so everything you have to see with social tariff and recurrence comes from this way. I listened here: "It is not the responsibility of this Government. Home, directly not, I'd just miss it. Now, I'm going back to remember them, huh? : Village, Rull, Calvet, now Puignero, all of the same suit. Therefore, you will explain to me what you want. As a minimum, they must accept that after almost eight years, this did not work well. At least we have to accept this. And we have to hold an exhibition, an attitude of transparency respects the cost. Deputy Cristina said: "No, this does not mean any expense to the Administration. Well, it is that these cost increases, which do exist, will eventually have an impact on public transport users and users. And, therefore, we need to know what happened here and why there were these cost overruns, if the project was poorly dimensioned from the beginning, from the technological point of view, which is surely what happened. Vice President, I'm going back to claiming one thing, which is: in these months until T-Mobility becomes operational, we ask him for political leadership and clear technical leadership. They don't run, make sure the artifact works. The public transport of Catalonia is not worth having again or having again an error like we had in the last few months. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.75.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to take a long time to get the last item on the order of the day. Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] The congresswoman of the CUP has announced that point 3...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.76.0	Exactly, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.77.0	Any other petitions? [[Pause.]] Perfect. Thank you very much. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the state of the Justice Administration]] [[302-00044/13]] So let's move on to the new order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the state of the Administration of Justice; presented to the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress. He has the word, to make his presentation, the deputy Mr Rubén Viñuales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.78.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Workers and Workers of Parliament... « Justice does not expect any prize. She accepts it on her own. And likewise are all virtues. That's what Cicero said in the 1st century before Crist, and it sums up pretty well how to apply the men and women who work for the Justice Administration. [[Widow's remorse.]] I see everyone's read Cicero on this side, which I appreciate. We also appreciate the presentations made by all groups. It's an exciting topic, negotiating papers, especially when there's enough points, like in a young man like this. But I thank you whenever there is a willingness to improve the initial text that we have presented and I understand that you accept the better. Mirin, we always say it and we will say it again: justice is not just a consumer of resources; justice is investing in pau, it is investing in democracy, it is investing also in economic growth. So they say the reports of the Council of Europe, not just this Member who speaks to them. Therefore, in the end you have had access, obviously, to this motion, and what we are asking is, among others, a Catalan pact for justice. Look, many times – we all happen – on a daily basis we eat, and what we have to do is to raise, have a look so that we can plan, plan what we have to do and, in this case, for justice, an integral view of this. Because many times it seems that the Administration of Justice is left with a lot of resources and looks like a hummingbird that moves a lot of wings, but it is not moving a pam from there where it is. Therefore, in the end we also ask, obviously, to stay for money, but to look for efficiency. Look, we're asking you for a 2.5% of the total budget. We do not ask them that the government of evil Spain has not made its draft assumptions. Therefore, I believe that we, who must be pioneers, as we have been in other times here in Catalonia, must also bet; as at least, with this percentage of the total assumption of 2.5. We also ask them to create jutjats, jutjats that have repeatedly been asked by the TSJ and that are obviously requests that all of you in their municipalities... It is not something that benefits us only the Socialist Party and Unites to advance, no; it benefits us all, all of us citizens. So, let's ask, more than that, that they are still on a fixed time frame. All the points that have been made by Junts and Esquerra... some of them were eliminating these terms. Listen, I can hear you, can't I? They're government, they don't want to take the sayings. But it's just that we've been at justice for a long time now that we don't have a deadline. They'll probably tell us it's because there's no money left in Spain; which is a competition, as you know, according to the Catalonian State of Autonomy. We're also asking you to separate the mixed jutjats, a feeling thing. Any legal operator knows that it is not useful, that they do not work and that, moreover, they generate a lack, sometimes, of specialisation or of being able to devote, the judge or judge, the time necessary to make the resolutions. Consolidate the seedlings. It cannot be accepted that there is more than fifty per cent interinating to the Administration of Justice. There are some judgments that everyone is interested in – all of them. This can't be accepted. We also say that before 2024, this tape of the eighth per cent, as well as the maximum, of interinatge, is closed. Also, as long as you look at those basses that are often less than one_month and that are not directly covered – it's not copper – which we demand – and I think it's a good idea, which is also common for us to appreciate that it has been traded – it's to say: "We believe, among the same bag that there is, one specialized only for short-term basses, less than one_month. In this way, listen, there will be people who already know what they are going to and will be able to cover, obviously, these downloads. Also many other fears, as approved, before three_months, a plaza of us judicial buildings. I don't want to talk, as always, about Tarragona, but I have to. And lastly – because there are many fears, but I will want to comment on them later, at the reply – we need to talk about prisons. Before anything else, to give all our support – and I am convinced that also from the rest of Parliament's companies and companies – to the prison function that suffered a brutal attack, a few days ago, at the Centre de Ponent and that, moreover, we are still in the process of being operated from fractures to the eyeball. From here– I think I can speak on behalf of all the Members–, all our support, scale and, above all, the will that this does not happen again. Because it's true – and I appreciate the Councilwoman's coming – the issue of arrests concerns us and concerns us. We need to talk about what is going on in prison, not just for us, but because they are, of the competence of Justice, that it is already a great oblivion, the even more oblivious, the functioning and the functions of prison. And lastly, investing in justice is always investing in democracy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.79.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, to defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.80.0	Thank you, Madam President. Nationalism is a regime that seeks to have the various plots of power properly controlled. And so, we try to have the police properly in a fist, we intervene the teaching to indoctrinate, we intervene the media to indoctrinate also, we use the health to provide the friends, or the social affairs, the residences, the means available to the young are also used for the friends to directly manage these issues and to make captive vote, to found the chiringuitos... But what good is justice, an independent power, to nationalism? For to disgust him many times, to disgust him many times: to pursue corruption, to tell them that it is not possible to secure with public money the perpetrators of embezzlement, to investigate when contracts are broken and to disgust certain politicians... Therefore, the judiciary, as an independent power that is, as a power not subject to control by nationalism, is a part of the rule of law that a nationalism that cannot control justice wants to let it languish and be the cinder of the Catalan administration. And today we have here, therefore, a motion that tries to bring justice up to date to prevent us from being one of the autonomous communities in Catalonia where justice works worst. Note that we, for example, a couple of...: civil affairs, social affairs. In social affairs. In Catalonia, the judicial delays..., we are of the first six of the seventeen autonomy in delays in social affairs. A work accident, a professional illness is judged in almost two years, dismissals in six and a half months. It's data from the 2019 General Council of the Judiciary that are out of autonomy, and we here, the truth, that we look pretty bad. And then came the pandemic, with which we are much worse than what the General Council of the Judiciary says for 2019. And in civil matters we are also the third worst of seventeen in delays in the resolution of court cases. Of course, let's explain to those who have pending an execution of non-judicial title that will take..., it took, in the year 2019, sixty_y_five months, more than five years. Executions from family law. When we have to execute someone who does not comply with family law obligations, forty months. Amendment of non-consensual measures, ten and a half months. Unconsensual separations – unconsensual separations – fourteen and a half months. They've been further delayed by the pandemic. Therefore, we have a problem that affects people – that affects people. And as it affects people – citizens and legal operators – but we are before the judiciary, which is an autonomous power, so, listen, here it seems that it never matters and is never one of the priorities of a nationalist government like the one we have. The politicians who are serious, as we know that this affects people and the justiciable, who despair when they have to go to the Administration of Justice, as we know that it affects the legal operators, the officials themselves, the lack of endemic means to which the Government of Catalonia, of the Generalitat of Catalonia, submits to the Administration of Justice, because we want this to change. And today we come here to vote and we will vote on many things that..., we, of course, from Citizens will vote in favour of the twenty points of the motion, although some of the remunerative improvements of ex officio lawyers have remained in « will be studied so that the government can also vote. But the important thing about the matter is that I believe that in this Parliament many of the twenty measures that we are adopting today are simply not going to be implemented. And they are not going to be fulfilled by the two things they always do: because "Spain steals from us and we will not have the means and because you..., never prolong the legislature enough so that the mandates emanating from this Parliament can be fulfilled. And since there is an endemic political instability in Catalonia, we are going to find that this legislature will end before this Parliament's mandate that we are doing today can be implemented. You'll see what I tell you how true it will be. And the people, who expect this to go better, for the tail. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.81.0	Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mr Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.82.0	Thank you, President. Honorable counselor, thank you; thank you for being here. I know you're coming from Girona. I want to send... to Mayor Madrenas and to myself I would also have liked to be in Girona today, where the Congress of the Catalan Advocate was inaugurated. Greetings to the 25,000 lawyers we're also talking about in this young man. A special greeting also to the secretary of relations with the Administration of Justice and the Director General, who are accompanying us today. Well, you present a young man with twenty points, asking for a whole series of things that... go away, the first two points..., said: "We have an insufficient assumption, underdoing – say you – and want a Catalan pact for justice. According to the two things – we have an insufficient assumption, we want a Catalan pact for justice – but let's do some reflections on some of the concrete points in which they come in. For example, one of the bundles of points that you're looking at is the one that refers to the best payoff of the turn of offices, which affects these 25,000 lawyers who are celebrating their convention in Girona today. I would like to remind you that, according to Article 11 of Law 10/2020, the judicial fees that are collected are associated with free justice and that you do not receive them, it is 60_million a year. Give these 60_millions or the 600s you owe us back years and see if we can increase the number of lawyers on the turn of offices. By the way, I'm announcing that we're going to present a message to the General Courts so that this fits into the general assumptions of the State, and I hope that the rest of the groups of independenceists will do that too. We are talking about the stability of the plants, the increase of the plants, the stability of the interns, but I want to remind them that it is about state bodies and that the competence to summon the places is of the State. Therefore, the responsibility lies with the Ministry of Justice, which, if I have not erred, since I did not join Madrid, remains governed by a minister, in this case, appointed by the Spanish Socialist Party. They're talking about buildings, too. Of buildings, I want to remind you of two things. First thing. Buildings and jutjat creation. Creation of jutjats – Article 21 of the Law of Demarcation and Plant – is the competence of the State; it is the impulse of the Ministry of Justice, it must be agreed with the General Council of the Judiciary, and from here – Article 107, I remember, of the State – the only thing we can do is, every five years, urge the modification of the Law of Demarcation and Plant to create us jutjats. Welcome, we want them, we judge them! But it must be you who assume this responsibility; to create the justices and pay us - them. Because the modules that you apply after you pay us the fees that we build from the Generality with the Generality's premise, are some modules of the year 96, IPC band. I want to remind you, Mr Viñuales, that the year 96 at jutjata we operated with fax and telex, today they operate with new technologies, as is obvious. All the modules are out of date, and that means that every time you create a jutjat, like us, and the councillor, and the former councillor we have been complaining for a long time, then it turns out that more than a million extra euros each additional jutjat. So you're delighted to talk about a state pact of justice, but we're not demagogic, we're not partisan. If you want..., you said: investing in justice is investing in democracy; correct, we are all agreed. But let's start reverse. If we don't suffer the tax policy that we do, as my partner in Dor Vergés said a couple of times ago, it turns out that the assumption that we would have for all departments, also for the Department of Justice, would be fifty-five per cent higher. In accounts of 2_million_i_mig, we do not go to 3,900,000_euro. Imagine if we could do things with all this. Investing in justice is investing in democracy, but justice and democracy can be improved without touching a euro of presupposition. I remind you that we have blocked, many years ago, the General Council of the Judiciary. And we don't blame the people entirely, because at the Congress of Deputies we proposed the formula to unlock it, as simple as choosing the members of the Council exactly as we choose the members of the months of parliaments: that every Member can only vote one. What's going on? That would then cease to be a distribution of chromosomes between you and the People's Party, as they have for more than thirty years. And if they want to invest in democracy [[applause]] ..., instinct that it is respect for the fundamental rights, that it is complete the resolution of the Council of Europe, that it has said that the Spanish jurisdiction does not complete the minimum standards required. We have a judgment in Trapero that is incompatible with the Supreme Court's judgment. There are two incompatible jutjad things. You're a lawyer, you know this is untenable. You know perfectly well that bad functioning, the politicized functioning of the Administration of Justice, of the Spanish judicial system, is one of the causes that contributed most to independence, because we live before a repressive and unjust justice. Therefore, welcome is a pact for justice, but let's do it without party and let's do it soon, because if they wait until 2025 they won't find us anymore, because we'll be gone. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.83.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Ana Balsera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.84.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, first of all I cannot begin this intervention without pointing out the importance of the Administration of Justice, and giving thanks to all the professionals for their work, from the professionals of the penitentiary services, the professionals of justice, the return of office..., to everyone. Thanks for your professionalism and dedication. We remember that during the pandemic, both the judges and the prisoners had to adapt, and so they did, their service continued, and therefore, from here all our recognition and gratitude. So, as the motion put forward says, for the proper functioning of democracy an efficient, effective and quality justice service is needed. Therefore, we are grateful to be able to speak here today, in this Chamber, of this essential service. Well, I can't deny it. We'll find a few surprising points for the young man, won't we? , that already pointed out the company deputy of Junts for Catalonia. Sorprèn, why is the Department of Justice of the Generalitat de Catalunya in place to last some actions in which the Ministry of Justice of the Government of Spain and the General Council of the Judiciary must also intervene. That's the reason, isn't it? , suten, and many, some of the petitions that the PSC does here, when it justly rules Spain and more it has the Ministry of Justice. So we hope that these petitions will also get them to their Madrid companies. And about the young man. We'll meet here, won't we? , we debate this extensive motion, as has already been said – twenty points – that we, together with Juntes for Catalonia, have discussed: we have incorporated new points..., in fact, we have presented two additions that have not been accepted; in fact, only five of our submissions have been accepted. And in this sense, it means that this young man has taken advantage of himself to talk a little bit about everything, from the creation of us judged to free legal aid, right? ...a little, a calaix de sastres. But, well, as they only have five minutes, I'll highlight a few aspects. The Catalan Pact for Justice. We agree. We have to do this and approve a pact with all legal operators. From the creation of us jutjats and new plants. At this point, you do have to make some considerations, don't you? And I do not want to be repetitive, but as already commented by the deputy company of Junts for Catalonia, the creation of new jutjats starts with a proposal of the Ministry of Justice, also of the General Council of the Judiciary, this proposal is also to be studied for the High Court of Justice of Catalonia... That is to say, it is not exclusive competence of the Department of Justice. Therefore, the return to animate, viñuales deputy, that these petitions make them arrive to his companions from the ministry of the PSOE. And, it's more – I'm already getting ahead of it, huh? – the Ministry of Justice did not foresee any new judicial organ for Catalonia in its 2020 programming. Or so it was the ministry that said so, huh? And, by the way, the administration of justice is also much more than just justice. Therefore, let us reflect there, in what model of justice we want to our country, that not all is solution based on us buildings and us jutjats. Free legal aid, isn't it? – that various points of the motion presented verse on free legal assistance – we wanted to remind you another time: this law is state, it is Spanish. Therefore, the petition is to the Government of Spain because it extends and modifies the law of free legal assistance. He'll find us here, but he's not here to play. Actually, I'd also like to comment, wouldn't I? , that one of the additions we proposed was about the català, because the català has to be a request and not a merit. Because there are a few lawyers and lawyers here. How many of us have been able to celebrate any judgment in Catalan? How many judges have we celebrated in català or have we rejected a judicial resolution in català? We've got a right, too. Therefore, let us point out, as the Councillor also said to her intervention, that it must be a request, the Catalan, for the Administration of Justice in Catalonia. Maybe that's all I've exposed, isn't it? , have not accepted all the papers that we have presented together with Juntes from Esquerra; perhaps because it was not interested – politically, dic. So we'll ask for the separate vote by points. And, finally, it remains patent that it is necessary to work the perspective of gender and feminization also in the legal world, which is masculinized. I am a woman and a lawyer, like many, claiming a nomenclature that integrates us all. So, please, let's stop saying "college of lawyers and we can say "college of attorney, which has been there for years, many, and many present. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.85.0	I, finally, in the defense round of the papers presented, has the word, in the name of En Comú Pomera, the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.86.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, MPs and MPs... as Jordan's fatherly junior, I'm doing the surgery today. The first, to thank the Socialist Party group that has presented this message to us, which manifests many or, better said, some of the problems that go through justices, arrests, office returns to Catalonia..., and look at the young lady having a few points and so we thought there were still some things missing. And many thanks also for the work we've done in accepting papers, for the discussion we've had, for the issues that we've postponed discussing and working on in the future, and for the acceptance of papers. I won't have time to talk about the whole place, because it's a dozen points and, therefore, I'm going to do some incis in some elements that we consider to be very important and that even today in the debate have passed a little unnoticed. The first: there is a clear economic barrier to access to the judiciary in our country. This clear barrier in access to being able to be judged or to be judged in our country is not only an injustice for the social majority of this country, which sees that it cannot devote four, five years of its life to studying to be judged, because it does not have to be maintained, but also that we believe that it is obvious – it generates an ideological bias in the joint venture of the judiciary, where we find that there are economic and conservative positions that have an overrepresentation that do not hold the rest of society. We have already warned that we have already made public that we are working in a system that we call MIR judicial, in comparison with the medical system, that seeks to ensure that any city that has studied right and wants to be judged or that wants to be judged has mediums to be able to do so. But there is one element that we have not finally included in the motion that we do want to say today, that is that the requirement not to work during the four years that you are right at a scholarship is eliminated. Because there are a lot of people who can't work for four years because you're preparing some oppositions and this job has to be able to match it with a paid job. And, therefore, this barrier that is imposed to demand that who has a scholarship dedicated all day to studying opposition is a barrier that ends up feeling unfair, because it does not limit the student's willingness to prepare opposition, but limits the economic ability to do so. And, therefore, we will ask that it be eliminated. According to the Justice Administration problem: forty per cent of the workers in the Justice Administration are in a situation of temporality. And it is an obvious problem that makes it difficult and that always poses through the functioning of justice. Calen oppositions – it is obvious, calen oppositions – and also a plan to reduce the interiency, as well as very well backward the movement, to the eighth_per_cent. Third: to strengthen the joint administration of justice. And that's what we're talking about. Call us judicial organs. We need to implement specific male-violation jutjats throughout the territory. More agile mechanisms are missing for the name of stakeholders and especially to cover lower-than-one-month-long downloads– and hence the transaction that we have agreed – and obviously to review and strengthen the turn of offices. And lastly – and for us it's also a very important discussion – it's like a million buildings and equipment from the Justice Administration. It's not that justice is just thinking about us being judged and equipped, but it's that equipment is a basic tool for the proper functioning of justice. Among other things, waiting rooms so that the parts have adequate space where they are not to be found while waiting for a trial; especially important in cases of male violence, in case of violence that affects less, that there are waiting rooms that are suitable. And that means thinking and building buildings that are designed for a fair administration of justice. And things as basic as climate must work in the summer and justice salts cannot be thirty-five or thirty-six degrees, because that affects the functioning of justice. Obviously, we equip, we build and we judge that they are necessary in Catalonia. And one thing that doesn't come to the House, but that thought after that seemed very important to us to make it manifest: computer equipment and computer systems that guarantee the interoperability between the prosecution and the courts, that you don't have to go through paper, because we are now able to provide computer systems that allow you to guarantee objectives not only of zero paper use, but also of more agile communication between the different instances of justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.87.0	After these turns of defense of the papers presented, he then has the word to fix his position, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.88.0	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, also a greeting to Mr. Campdepadrós, who is in Tarragona, and to the Lourdes, who is a great professional and for whom I have great esteem. The PSC is presenting us today with a motion on the administration of justice, a good motion. It is noted that Mr Viñuales is a lawyer. Common technical improvements are also good. A set of measures, as I say, which, in general, we are going to vote in favour. We are going to vote in favour, because we have already made those proposals to the Councilwoman at the meeting we had with her on 5 July. However, Socialists, I must say something to you in advance: that in order to improve justice we must first respect it. And to respect justice means to rule by keeping the law; it is the least that can be demanded of a ruler. And at this point the Constitutional Court has severely disallowed them three times. The first state of alarm has been laid on them; the suspension of parliamentary activity of Congress has been declared unconstitutional; the second state of alarm has been laid on them, which closed the Congress for six months and has illegally delegated the restriction of rights and freedoms to the autonomous communities. How many rulings of the Constitutional Court against it are required for a government to resign, gentlemen of the PSC? How many sentences? In any other European country, a decent government that for three times would have ruled against your country's Constitution would have resigned as a bloc, and Mr Illa should have done so first. Not only health management, but also the entire legal framework of the pandemic was a complete body of law. The socialist government has undoubtedly been the worst government at the worst time in our recent history. On the concrete measures of the motion, they are common sense, I do not have time to comment on them either. And, look, in relation to the fifth point, when it is asked that new courts be created, which are urgent, we want to ask the council to come into operation with the total full staff, already from the first moment, and not as until now with the reduced staff, because that leads to a delay since its inauguration. As for the lines of assistance to judges and lawyers of the Catalan Administration of Justice, those scholarships seem very good to us, but perhaps in order to ensure that the very many places of judges and lawyers of the Administration of Justice that have no doubt left the process, the Government of the Generalitat should also stop harassing and pointing to the judges, and respect the judicial decisions. Or avoid, for example, that a companion of mine, a lawyer of the Administration of Justice, has to go out on a roof, escorted by the Civil Guard, in a diligence of entry and registration in the council of Economy, because it is not very stimulating for other judges, for other lawyers of the Administration of Justice who are considering competing and coming to Catalonia. Look, two final notes. The Catalan language, Mrs. Ciuro. In his reply, Mr. Viñuales, in the question he asked, he devoted a large part of the two minutes to defending a greater presence of the català to the administration of justice, and reading his interview yesterday in the newspaper The Journal is also known to be a priority for you. You really don't think there are any harder problems? The catalá is well present in all the documents, in the written ones, in the documents that are presented to the jutjats daily, it is well assured. It was my job to provide them for many years, like the Justice Administration, and no legal operator has ever had a problem with this issue. Moreover, the computer program of process management, the EJcat, is in Catalan and there is a translation service that allows, if necessary, to translate from Spanish to Catalan or from Catalan to Spanish any judicial resolution practically one day for another and that the parts can be notified in a concrete language. Therefore, I do not find any problem, the català enjoys in the Administration of justice of a good greeting. Certainly, much more than Spanish in the teaching or public administration of the Generality [[applause]] , where practically his presence is null and suffers manifest discrimination. I, per ultima..., I want to focus attention on a first-class problem in the administration of justice, which is commercial justice. Catalonia leads corporate insolvency in 2021 throughout Spain, with 1,400 bankruptcies, according to various reports published this week. One_of_each_three creditor contests in Spain is from a Catalan company. And this problem is going to go further when the ERTEs end in February 2022 and ICO credits expire in March also next year. Strengthen, Mrs Ciuro, the courts of commerce and social affairs. Insert the necessary legal and procedural changes; equip the commercial courts with personnel and material resources so that the competitions can be processed with greater agility, so that many SMEs and many self-employed people have a second chance. And of course these have already been sufficiently punished by the pandemic and by the economic management of the Generalitat. And I don't know if there's Mr. Alonso-Cuevillas, but in 2025 I don't know if Mr. Cuevillas will have to leave for Waterloo, but the rest of us will remain here quietly. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.89.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the words of the deputy Ms Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.90.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors, making a motion that embraces almost all of the Administration of Justice seems to me a little distressed and, unfortunately, I won't have time to touch all the points that you have on the table. In any case, it is important that... you begin the motion exposing that the administration of justice service is one of the most presumptively oblivious services for the Generality and attribute all evils, from the malfunction of the administration of justice, to the lack of..., to financing. And Mr. Carrizosa tells us that nationalism makes justice languish. See, I think we need to be honest about this. You cannot pass all the responsibility to the Generality of a public service, when procedure, configuration of the courts, division of judges and magistrates, specializations, everything is in the hands of the judiciary of the Spanish State and the Catalan Administration only has some small competences in the matter of personnel administration. In fact, you, of the Council of Ministers, with the socialist minister right now are processing a preliminary draft law of digital efficiency of the public service, one precisely at the presentation of reasons for this law you recognize that the problem of justice is not lack of personnel and media, but precisely is of poor organization. And precisely in this preliminary draft of the organic law what they say is that I need to reformulate the whole system because it's poorly thought out, because it's a system that we've been flushing since '85 and that all these years there's been no way to get along to touch it. So, please, be honest and share responsibilities in the way you're really close. I can set a concrete example. Who makes the decision to make a single judge who handles all the proceedings for abusive circumstances in the province of Barcelona? Because there's only one and it's saturated, and they're not setting judgments until more than a year ago. Who makes this decision? This decision was made by Mr. Carlos Lesmes, who published it to the BOE in 2007. Therefore, the Administration of Justice works very poorly, but the responsibility of the Generalitat de Catalunya is indeed low, in this case. For what he does to other points of the young man. Adopt a Catalan pact for justice: and so much! - And so much! – we agree, all that will have limited effectiveness. And we want to talk about denunciations, how the public order works, the security bodies, applying denunciations. We also want to talk about the català to the Administration of Justice, which we believe is absolutely not represented. A total of 8.5 sentences in this country are only dictated in Catalan. What are you doing to the raise in a two and a half percent? So much for it! What's going on, which, let's repeat, is an endemic underfunding. Create jutjats by 2022? So long, Socialist Party gentlemen! That's why we're voting for them, because you're joining our strategic line, that's getting out of legal frameworks that keep us stuck and don't let us move forward. Right now, the creation of justice is not the competence of this Parliament, but we are very happy and happy and we celebrate that you are, precisely, apostin, right? , because this Parliament of Catalonia can decide how many jutjats to create. As far as the issue of interim seedlings is concerned, we will also vote in favour of this motion. What happens, that we just want to point out that precariousness causes it by the Spanish legislation that is now in application, and that this eighth_per_cent takes it from you because it takes it, because it is a recommendation of the European Union. I mean, we can include it better, this eight-per-cent. For what makes us buildings, climate, totally agreeable. And above all to dignify the judicial dependencies that acquit victims of domestic violence and minors who often accompany them. The lines of help to the bodies of judges, magistrates. We agree with what the company of the commons explained, there is a class bias, and, therefore, we agree on everything that is enhancing access to the judiciary. Now, this little vest that introduces the city's equal opportunity movement... of course, we understand that it should also serve because it knows more of the idiom, because it knows the civil right of Catalonia, but you put this vest on us that will precisely want to end these requirements, and therefore we will have to abstain at this point. Retribution or increase of two_per_cent to the turn of offices? So much! And much more than should be increased, the remuneration of the turn of offices, which is absolutely underfunded. What else? Oh, yes! Video surveillance..., video conferencing in declaration of detainees. We don't see that clearly. There are many things between legal operators that can be done by videoconferencing, but assistance to the detainee or an investigator has to be seen, because it is the only way to protect rights. And the whole bunch of arrests, so... I'm running out of time, and I can't say anything, but I'll vote against it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.91.0	I, finally, have the word, on behalf of the Group Mixt, the deputy Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.92.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, it is a very complete motion; the truth, which seems to us to touch on many issues that we have been talking about for a long time. It is a situation that we have dragged from before the pandemic, of unsustainable judicial collapse, and you know it very well, Madam Counselor. And, therefore, I do not want to imagine how we have the situation after this pandemic and after what we have experienced in the last year and a half, with a collapse of more than nine thousand outstanding issues, with all that entails. I insist that there are many of the points on which we are totally in agreement: creating new courts, the whole issue of the interim... We have an interim situation above the average, especially, in addition, here in justice. And, of course, blame the others, right? , as I have heard in some speeches, to say that, well, that the theme of the squares, etc., comes from the ministry... Well, if we are then offered places, as happened, for example, in 2016, and Mr Puigdemont said that he did not want them, because then bad matter we have here and bad settlement we have here. Therefore, it is necessary to do a job, obviously, in collaboration with the ministry too, but when these places are offered then you have to take the ones. The problem is that you do not want these officials to come and, in fact, you did not tweet about it long ago, which made it very clear and said: "We need Catalan judges and magistrates. That's how she clearly said it. Well, maybe you don't need that, Mrs. Ciuro, here's what you need to open the doors, because we have a diaspora and an exodus of judges, magistrates and prosecutors from Catalonia that is scary. It's scary what you're living here in Catalonia. And I'm not surprised. First, because they are under untenable pressure, with all the harassment by the most radical separatism. Just a few months ago we had an episode at the gates of the Valls courthouse, where they made a monigote dressed as a burning judge. I don't think that's an ideal situation for anyone to come here to choose a place in Catalonia. That, on the one hand, is that fiscal pressure, which you also adapt with other things, and I want to remember, therefore, the famous body of evaluators that you pulled out of the sleeve and that then, of course, you pulled them out; that spying attempt that was also made on the computers as well. Well, it's a full-fledged harassment campaign, which not only, I insist, goes through these street actions, but you too from the department were doing your thing. But it is not only this harassment campaign that exists here in Catalonia, but it is also that they are in a working condition that are bad – that are bad. You have the skills transferred. And, therefore, if they have the transferred powers, why are the officials of the Administration of Justice the worst paid in the whole State? The destination complement..., that is, the specific complement – forgiveness –, the lowest of the whole state. That depends directly on you. So, what about this, we don't have money or we have money for some things, yes, but for what's important, no? Because, in the end, all this that happens in the administration of justice has a direct impact on the citizen – and my colleagues commented – that is an essential service for the citizenry. We're talking about the low complement. Extra payments: yesterday we had the debate here that you still owe them extra payments, which is not a receipt. The subject of casualties: the casualties are not met. The topic of the interinity index, in addition to everything that implies that we do not have fixed places, also implies that these people who are occupying these places do not in many cases have the necessary training for that post. How are fellow judges organizing themselves? Well, one of them is dedicated to giving lessons to others, to the interims, that is..., and they do it outside of their working hours: more workload still, in case they didn't have enough. I therefore insist that here it is not a question of washing your hands and blaming others, but here there are also responsibilities and that you have these transferred competences, and therefore it is time for us to get to work. It is not only that they are working in terrible conditions at the level of wages and working conditions, but also that judicial equipment leaves much to be desired. We've talked about it on other occasions, there are facilities that are literally falling apart. We also talked about the air conditioning system, with judges who even had to close because they exceeded thirty-five degrees. I don't think that's a way to work. And, therefore, let us also get to work on the subject of judicial equipment. We have also talked..., when we were talking about the workload – it has also been talked about – data have been given about the situation we have here, especially with very specific judgments, such as, for example, civilians or merchants, who are working in modules far above what is appropriate – merchants, more than three hundred_per_cent above normal. Why? Well, first of all, because we are suffering a pandemic, obviously we are, but also because here in Catalonia we have more creditor competitions, we have more companies leaving, and that involves more mortgage executions, more redundancies, etc. There is a whole problem that depends directly on what the Government of the Generalitat is doing. Therefore, stop throwing balloons out and put yourself to improve the administration of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.93.0	And, in the last place, to pronounce on the papers, has the word the deputy Mr Rubén Viñuales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.94.0	Thank you, President. Thank you all for your contributions. To Ciutadans' companies. Let's hope with this plan, it's over the length of a legislature. To the company of Junts. He's on the bus. I've put up twenty points; I could have put up twelve thousand points and I'd still be short. They'll do it again. Talk about the best payback on the back of the office. That I know is competence – that I know – of the Department of Justice. It's about court fees, and it's 60 million. I ask you again and again, what's going on here, and you can't tell me. That tomorrow we're talking to the minister shows very much what his situation of conversation or connection with the State is, a great deal for Catalonia. It also talks about buildings and jutjat creation. Let me know, 107.2 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, our Statute, clearly says that if it is not modified the judicial plant that does not involve legislative reform correspond to the Generality. Tell the Tarragona courts to pay $1,200,000 in loggers and we don't have a city of justice; explain this to you. [[Greetings.]] Not only that, I should also explain to them why we are the only capital that does not have this building – I should explain to them. You also always talk about the tax policy – we already heard it from Mr. Canadell. We'd be the Atlantis 2.0 of rickets we'd be. You speak of the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary. And of the hundred and twelve charges of this Parliament that are not renewed on their part, so you don't say anything. Talk about a political system in Spain. Are we talking about the transitional law that you wanted to make, where the President of the Generality was appointed to judge the Supreme Court? This does not violate the separation of powers. The Left. That the català is a request, not a merit. Miri, we said that we want good judgments and good judgments, not Catalan judgments, as if they were a Priorate with an origin name. Talk about having a right to speak Catalan. Law 1/98, Organic Law 6 of 85, European Charter of Regional Languages: all defend the right to speak in Catalan to the jutjats. To the Communes. We appreciate your words. The Vox. « The state of alarm has fallen. But if you voted for it! Finally there is a tweet of March 12, 2020 on Mr.Abascal said: "You have to decree the state of alarm. And now you're going through it. I'm at the CUP. If you like my young lady, I'd be worried. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.95.0	After the debate, the vote will take place this late when the next item on the agenda is taken up. Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Mònica Sales de la Cruz asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Sales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.96.0	President, we would call for a separate vote on points 1, 5, 6a, 7, 8, 9, 12 and 20, which could be voted together, and for another group, point 14.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.97.0	All right, thank you very much. Any other petitions? [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]] Mrs. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.98.0	Yes; Madam President, we would ask you to vote on the item separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.99.0	Perfect. [[Montserrat Vinyets Pagès asks to speak.]] Mrs. Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.100.0	Yes; President, we would make three blocks, first points 1, 16, 18, 19 and 20; one other block, point 11, and the rest, all together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.101.0	Is there another petition? [[Joan Garriga Doménech asks to speak.]] Mr. Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.102.0	Yes; from our group, to ask for separate votes from points 2 and 15, which could be voted together, and the rest.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.103.0	All right. Perfect. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the management of agrarian areas]] [[302-00045/13]] So, if there are no more petitions, let's pass the twenty-one point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the management of the agricultural spaces; presented for the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle to Win. You have the word, to make the speech of the young man, the deputy Pau Juvillà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.104.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. We are bringing to the House the consequences of the inquiry into the entourage of the agrarian areas which the Government of the Government of Catalonia..., which we presented fifteen days ago, where the CUP - A new Cycle for Winning we have exhausted our basic lines on a labor reform that must be based on so simple a land for which it works. A will that undoubtedly passes, and among others, for the creation of a powerful land bank. Thus, the reason we are carrying today goes in this sense, it goes in the sense of defending the family farms, small-scale, biodiverse and compromises with the territory, threatened now by an intense process of capitalization, concentration and industrialization of agriculture, which brings together a land grabbing in the vicinity of the Catalan Countries. We said this in the last plenary and we are saying: it is urgent and I do not admit delay to put a stop to speculation and the predatory model of agricultural areas; it is urgent and I do not admit delay to put a stop to this model that preys on our agricultural areas. It is necessary to protect the minifundist structure as a historical construct and to guarantee access to the land as a right of the citizenry and as a fact constituted by this new Catalan republic that we want to do. It promotes tools for regulating the use and price of land, as well as guaranteeing its agricultural use for life. He gave the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on land grabbing in 2014, which would implement a policy that did not lead to a concentration of land, but to a transition from industrial production to small production units, which would also strengthen food self-sufficiency. The Member States of the European Union, said this opinion, should have a state institution that enjoys a joint view of the situation of the property and the use of agricultural land. We add that there is an agrarian reform which we have pending in the Catalan countries and the Principality; an agrarian reform which must rotate over a maximum, which is what we say: the land for which we work; that it must start from the principle of the social function of the land, so that the possession and use of the land must be subordinate to the right to the land for which it works, which depends on it and who lives there with his family; an agrarian reform which must guarantee this access to the land for all those who want to work; that it must advance in food sovereignty; that it must guarantee just prices; that it must guarantee social and labor rights to the workers of the camp and that it must empower the women. In the previous plenary of general policy, through a motion for a resolution that was approved, we enhanced Law 3/2019, of 17 June, of agricultural areas, all creating a technical commission of prices and values, because it is personal of the Administration that makes the inspection, or the inspection and control activity of the estates that intend to join the register of agricultural parcels and branches in waste, and thus convert this register into an administrative and public instrument that incorporates the estates with agricultural vocation. But we have the important part – we have the important part – which we present in this motion today: we have to ensure that the Administration can participate in the right of aunty and retract with specific foundations to do so. The government has to take control of the soil – the government has to take control of the soil – and so it passes, among others, through the creation of a powerful land bank..., a land bank, or as you say, it will advise – we will look for the name that you like best or that we like best – but let it follow this, a powerful land bank, and we need to have this instrument, the right of choice and retraction. Because we need to avoid speculation and ensure the perpetual use of land alone, facilitating access to land to people who want to engage in page activity, avoiding that the great tenors and the funds of reversal are doing with land control while moving the family page. And this instrument, the right of aunty and retraction, is an important piece. That, what we will do today – if we do; I hope so – will be only a step, a small step necessary, essential and that I do not admit delay. I'll do it today, I'll put us there. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.105.0	To defend the papers presented, has now the word Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra, on behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.106.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, MPs and MPs, well, the Socialist Group and Forward Units coincide with the objective or with the objectives of this motion. Two objectives... beyond, therefore, the slow intervention of the deputy of the UPC, two objectives that we think are totally sensible, right? One, which is to avoid the concentration of agricultural soils in a few hands, which is a process that is actually going on; perhaps not in a very significant way to Catalonia, but it is going on, therefore, to the rest of Spain and the rest of the world. Today, there was an article that said that up to seven hundred inverters have placed their eyes and interests on land alone. And, therefore, we may be able to avoid that there is this concentration in a few hands and that really the Vaginal agrarian onlys dedicated to speculation. We understand that it is necessary to maintain the family structures of small and medium-sized owners, which are those who actually make these farms, therefore, profitable and truly productive, right? And then, an objective _second, that is to guarantee access to these agricultural onlys to the people they want to dedicate, especially young people. But here we have to say that for us it is not only an essential requirement, access to the land, not only the land is necessary because young people tend to stay on these farms, but we also have to facilitate access to the resources to be able to cultivate the land, huh? Because that's the land around here if the work looks like another time. Today access to the land and its culture also requires a lot of resources and help. For example, help to young people in 2019, help from the department, have not yet been paid. Therefore, if we do not give these aids, badly; young people will be criticized or will not want to stay in these installations, in these farms. And, of course, less cost-effectiveness for farms. And that means water, too, that means regs. If we don't give more profitability, there will hardly be people who want to dedicate themselves to it. Therefore, we agree with the objective, but we do not agree well with the wording. The wording, as you did, which was to say: the department..., the Generality will have the preferred acquisition through the right of choice and withdrawal for any sale, exchange, donation between lives, payment, contribution of these to a company, without any limitation and without fine-tuning the concept. This is why we have presented, therefore, a point in which we say that these legislative changes that are proposed must be made much more refined and limited, right? And we put as an example what at the time was approved to the law of conreus. The law of conreus contracts established that all this could be done except when these operations, this alienation is done between people of the same family, it is done between joint owners of a farm or it is done when the farm was not rustic but was only urbanizable. Because we understand that the big line in these issues can be even counterproductive to the objective he wanted. That is to say, it's so absurd that a mother or a father wants to give a farm to her child and it turns out that with this regulation, with this regulation that you intend to push, the Generality could come and say: "No, listen, the farm we stay with. Therefore, with the input that we have made, we believe that this is defined. And then we made another statement, which was not accepted, putting in value what was approved with the law of agricultural lands, right? And he's got a great deal of consensus. Because there are many aspects of this law that have not unfolded yet and that, therefore, we understand that if we approve of it, that if we push regulations, but then it turns out that we don't take them to practice, that we don't develop them, they end up feeling papery. We are talking about the Agrarian territorial plan of Catalonia, the specific sectoral territorial plans, the inventory of agricultural parcels and branches in use, the register of agricultural parcels and branches also in use, and to present to the Committee on Agriculture and Fisheries and Food of this Parliament before the end of the 2022 session, the measures to encourage the cessation of the use of agricultural farms and branches. Therefore, this point has not been accepted. It seems like a big deal to us, because I already told them that it was a way to end up materializing what was approved in the law of agricultural lands. If we don't do it, they'll end up feeling a lot of paper. We hope that the regulations that are being pushed from now on will not end the same way. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.107.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Lluïsa Llop.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.108.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, the agricultural sector, as you all know, accounts for approximately 3.6_percent of Catalonia's GDP and it is the one that occupies the most territories in our country. A sector that is economically, socially and environmentally very important, and that is essential for the country's quality food production and, therefore, directly very important for the health of all citizens. The year 2050 will have a world of 9,700_million people who will feed, and that means we will have to produce fifty_per_cent more food. And we all know there's no food without agricultural space. This is basic, and I think all folds in are fully conscious. But the reality we have at this time is that we certainly continue to paint the abandonment of many people in our home. Let's keep up with data from the past few years. More than 45.000 hectares of land have been lost, abandoned, in Catalonia – a 1.4_percent of the total surface area – as a result of depopulation and aging in some areas, yes, but also as a result of the occupation of the agricultural environment due to its urbanization. Cases of division of parcels for the tracing of communication lives, establishments of ease of passage due to replacements of equipment or requalifications of land. Urbanism has gone on to say that it did not value people in agricultural space when it was necessary to design traces of roadblocks, infrastructure, equipment, etc. And this is not a thing of the past, but it continues to pass us now, as, for example, with the traces of the southern pot, for example, of the Fourth Belt, which are about to pass over a valuable agricultural plane. Cal the protection of the agrarian spaces. And, for example, facts like the decree that will soon arrive in Parliament, the new decree of renewables, go in this line. In the same way that goes on this line the law that has been approved here in the Parliament of Agrarian Thicknesses, that has tried to equip tools to be able to fr... – sorry –, to be able to deal with many of these problems. The law of agricultural areas allows the planning of the territory taking into account the agricultural sector and putting in place its cohesive and balanced role of country, defining the areas of agricultural value in order to preserve them with basic tools, as is said, like the territorial agricultural plan of Catalonia or mechanisms that allow the maximum mobilization of land in non-productive uses, such as this register of agricultural holdings, which can be said of many ways, but which we in diem, such as back the law, this register of agricultural holdings. Such an important law that it was passed without a vote against in this Parliament and a huge consensus in the sector around it. And it is in this context, in this framework, that we are presented with this motion from the CUP, which we understand, from the Parliamentary Group of Esquerra, that what it does is to enrich this law of land in two senses. One, requesting this deployment of the land register in disuse before the first quarter of 2023. A register that we believe in, and that we know that the government is working for its deployment, in the same way as in all areas of this law, such as, for example, its regulatory deployment. And a very important second line, as the previous Members put it, is to recover an instrument that already existed and that disappeared with the President's omnibus laws, but that is to equip the Generality with instruments that allow, with the words of the agreed transaction, "to put an end to speculation and land grabbing, that we are all aware that we are beginning to give ourselves in areas of our territory for foreign investment. That is why we need to recover this right of acquisition preferably for the Generality, this right of choice and withdrawal by the Administration, and do so by law, and with the logical limitations that we collect on the title indicated and that we are sure that they will not be exactly as they will be when this change of law is processed, and that we want to introduce into these items and into these transactions that we have treated so that we believe it is worth delimiting this abscess of this right of choice and withdrawal. In the same way, as we have also ended up trading with the CUP, we have established that the Government should establish priority areas affected by the Generality's purchasing preference and also the conditions under which this exercise of rights of participation and withdrawal is to be carried out. I insist, it seems absolutely essential to me these rights of aunty and retraction by the Government of Catalonia in order to protect the territory from speculation and preserve its agricultural soil. We have these tools to be able to put in the abst of the small producers, of the young, of all those who are willing to dedicate to agricultural activity; essential, these tools. And I take the last few seconds to thank Congressman Juvilà for presenting this motion, facilitating it to be able to deal with and deal with this motion, as with Congresswoman Ibarra in the case of the first point. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.109.0	Then, and to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Vox, the deputy Mr Antonio Ramón López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.110.0	Good morning, President. Deputies... Well, the Parliamentary Group of the CUP presents us with a motion that starts badly. It starts wrong, because his first words are already a lie. It starts like this: « Als Paisos Catalans... I really do that every time I go down here I don't know how to explain to him that Catalonia is not a country. It is a wonderful region of Spain, which is a country. It's my country, your country, that of all of us here. [[Some applause.]] As to the content of the motion, we are not surprised that from the CUP they want to attack one of the fundamental principles of our society, such as private property. Look, the right of tanteo you claim is an indirect expropriation, it's a white glove theft. This motion is a legal aberration. They are communist policies that all they do is put more obstacles in the way of wanting to sell, rent or donate a property that is yours. You are the chiefs who only want to be able to do anything without your permission and without you keeping everything under control. They want to impose a light version of Venezuela's expropriation, it's clear. With this motion, bureaucracy increases. And as Honoré de Balzac said: "The bureaucracy is a gigantic machine run by pygmies. Real estate transactions in Catalonia will slow down. Therefore, investors, whether large or small, will invest in other regions of Spain. Result – the same as always –: the investment money and its corresponding taxes will not stay here, apart from losing all the jobs that this implies, as well as spending on fertilizers, fertilizers, tractors and all the machinery that is used to work in the field. You separatists, communists and, of course, your PSC partners don't care about anything. And I'm gonna prove it to you. Yesterday in the question session, MP Romero, of the PSC, claimed that sixty_per_cent of the municipalities of Pallars had no forecast of when broadband would reach them. And just two hours ago, Congressman Marc Parés, from En Comú Puem, more of the same. Well, in the last Committee on Agriculture we put forward a proposal with 20 measures to put an end to rural depopulation, where one of the measures was precisely to ensure access to mobile telephones and the quality of connections in rural areas. And what did you vote for? Against. Because they don't care about citizens and they don't care about everything. Gentlemen, as I told you, shoelaces. And focus once and for all on helping the citizens and our region. But, well, I don't know why I'm surprised, it's the tonic of this government and all its partners, which seems to be here to destroy Catalonia. Of course they've come to that and I have to put on a ten, because they're doing very well. Since it could not be otherwise, our vote will be against. Unlike you, we have not come to destroy Catalonia, but to recover Catalonia. To recover institutional neutrality, freedom, security in the streets and to leave the freedom of its ideological impositions, its totalitarian project and its rupturist agenda. And, as always, I remind you to be sure that the sooner we get it and we will recover Catalonia for the great national project that is Spain. I was going to say thank you very much, but I have one minute left. Look, you imagine I know that any of you or a family member of yours gets sick, or I or a family member of mine, and the only thing we have to deal with is the money to sell a farm. If we have to wait for the bureaucracy of the Generalitat, as already happens in the urban sphere with the floors of the bank, we will all die, because they will not be able to pay it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.111.0	Then and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can, has the word Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.112.0	Thank you very much, President. He will advise... Home, if a family member gets sick, I'm the first one to recommend him is that he doesn't vote for the party led by someone like Mr. Garriga, who in an interview the year 2020 said such a thing as universal and free sanitation is a scourge, don't know that I don't have enough to sell. [[Some applause.]] Let's see, let's say a lot, but I won't get tired of repeating it. For us agriculture is a strategic sector for the future of our country. It is a food sovereignty key, and we believe that with the news we are already beginning to have about food shortages, about instability, it is an element to claim. Food production is a value that gives security to countries at a time of crisis as we are living. It's by land management. We always say: "Agriculture is one percent of the gross domestic product. What we don't say is that it would cost us all to replace the territorial management pocket with a paid pocket for other economic sectors. And for the third point, because he's a key actor to boost life in the territory. Agriculture, pagesia, and ramederia form part of the rural economy and of the first life in rural Catalonia, and, therefore, to abolish it is also to exacerbate the problem of depopulation and the lack of economic alternatives in the rural world. And for us, therefore, it is a strategic sector. What are we seeing? A process of concentration of the earth, which for us is different from what we have experienced in the past. It is clear that since the industrial revolution there has been a sustained process of land concentration, basically, which has to do with the ability to invest technical capital in agriculture in order to free up the labour that can go to cities and be the labour of industry, and that this makes agricultural income diminished and that one must have more land in order to be able to benefit from the exploitation of the land. This process has been completed in our country as well as the rest of the European countries since the industrial revolution. But the process that we're seeing now is a more complex process and it doesn't have to see in excess or not just with the increase in agricultural technology. For a band – and I mentioned it a little – the common agricultural policy, which gives entrances per surface. And what we're seeing is that the seventy-six percent of the CAP funds go to the bottom, to the split percent of the owners. What does that mean? That there is a 0.03_percent of agricultural landowners that cover more than forty-five_percent of agricultural landowners; for a policy that is designed by extension and not by other criteria, and that this, in the background, stimulates land grabbing. And this 0.03_per_cent of owners will always recognize you because they always come for TV talking about the culture of effort and merit while they live by income. Second, there are also problems with the King's modernization policies. And sometimes we see it: there are workers, there are canals, that in the end what they do is that the owners have to pay to be able to install the reg on their lands, and there are small owners who cannot cope with the expenses and who have to sell the lands or have to continue to have land with low yields. Here it is, too, mechanisms so that everyone can access this type of installation. Third question: urban pressure; we have experienced it far from the last decades. Many agricultural soils used as part of the speculative canister of the soil that we have experienced in our country. Fortunately, we already have the law of agricultural areas, we have the most protected problem. But then there's another problem, which is the source of the reversal. We are aware that since the last crisis the soil, and especially the agrarian soil, is part of an offensive of the fund of investment that feeds in a sector that has economic difficulties, that has difficulty in the generational replenishment, and that, therefore, this input of fund of investment sharpens the problem of depopulation and sharpens the problem of land grabbing. And we are in favour of this motion, because we understand that in the current situation we need to act in three lines. First, in laws protecting agricultural areas, with which we have already approved in this country. Second, in policies of access to the land in unoccupied lands, in banks of land, that allow the joint of the society that wants to work in the camp to do it and to have access to the land. And then, in anti-hatching policies, which is what this motion proposes, even though it is with mechanisms of what VOX's company says in anti-hatching and anti-hatching communism, which is a very limited communism, but at least it allows us to design some kind of anti-hatching policies. And therefore, we shall vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.113.0	Thank you very much. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Matías Alonso, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.114.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, this is a motion to which, as we are already making progress, we will not support it; not only because we do not agree with its presentation of motius; not only because we believe that it is a proposal that drives a government interventionism that we cannot accept from our liberal position; above all, we will not support it because we think and defend that the management of agricultural areas that must be made by a responsible government is to accompany the first sector, the pages and cooperatives, the small and medium-sized enterprises that work in the production and distribution of agri-food from Catalonia. To accompany them so as to make farms profitable, so as to guarantee the continuity of farms, and so as to ensure that they can continue to develop their productive activities despite the difficulties that may be encountered, often for the implementation of inadequate policies. We are already making progress – and I think it's no surprise – and we will not support the creation of something that looks like a government-controlled land bank. Therefore, we will vote against this motion in its final report. But I want to take advantage of a little brushstroke that we think is a priority and much more necessary than not to intervene directly from the government in which they can or cannot work the land. Of course we want to keep the presence of pages, let's just say, all our lives. It is clear that we believe that it must be a priority to articulate public policies that allow the continuity of family farms. It is clear that we think that the inheritance tax should be abolished so as to prevent generational changes to agricultural holdings from becoming impossible because the heretics cannot rely on inheritance. All this, and not that the Administration of the Generalitat intervenes directly in the acquisition of land alone, is priority from the point of view of Ciutadans. There are many chronic emergencies, because many years ago, in the agricultural world and in the agricultural and food industry. And it's these emergencies, and it's not the will to intervene directly and decide on who can or cannot work our camps, land and agricultural areas, which must be priorities in the action of the autonomous government. Therefore, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, which asks the government, is that it does not fall into the storm of being costed to the CUP and that it prioritizes what is necessary and urgent. It is clear that farmers and farmers can stay behind in the territory and make their farms profitable; that is what must be a priority for the Government of the Generality. The priority of the Government of the Generality must be to give maximum support to the agricultural sector and forest management. It is necessary to promote cooperation programmes and projects with agricultural and branch sectors, financing advisory, research, innovation and technological transfer projects in these sectors in order to facilitate the continuity, technological improvement and commercial profitability of farms. To strengthen the presence of the agri-food industry at national and international markets. It is necessary to advise producers and to support them, so that they can adapt to the future regulatory requirements of the CAP, so that the benefits of some agricultural holdings will depend on them. It is necessary to increase aid to young farmers, accompanying them in their business and future projects. To promote the competitiveness of agricultural cooperatives and the strengthening of their social structure. Let us not forget that cooperatives have been and must continue to be an essential tool to achieve the integration of producers. It can simplify the procedures for aid to agriculture, forestry and treasuries, while at the same time it has to be old so that it directly affects the improvement of productivity. It is important to have a fair relationship between producers and distributors, and because the mandate of the food chain law is fulfilled. There are many priority issues in the rural world and in the first sector, including increasing competitiveness and working hard to achieve a generational replenishment that maintains the productive and competitive capacity of the agricultural sector. It should be noted that small and medium-sized enterprises, small producers, need better access to the public administration. Counselor, when will we have a truly unique business window? Certainly, we also need to address the difficult problem of overpopulation of wildlife that hinders the productivity of the conreus and that severely undermines safety, for example, on the reels. Anyway, from the city, we don't even share what this young man is proposing, and much less when the warmest is still in the water.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.115.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.116.0	Thank you, President. Very briefly, to convey our vote against this motion, for various reasons. The first is that you say that they protect small owners, family members, etc. In reality, with their proposal that they want to protect is the government, the public administration. With her proposal, the Generalitat does not fight the hedge fund, it wants to turn it into a hedge fund; it is to say, not the fight, but the replacement. And, besides, with very similar practices. This perfectly connects with the legend and obsessive malalty that the extreme left has always had for the expropriation and collection of the agricultural spaces, certainly some planning practices that have involved some of the most disappointing episodes of the history of humanity. And I already know perfectly well that this text is a light version of those bogies that Mao Tse-Tung did with land planning. And I already know that papers accepted until they smooth out a little bit more writing. But accepting that I didn't fall into the hippo, I still feel an absolutely unacceptable wording in the 21st century, that's to say, it's a... I don't know if this is communist or pseudo-communist or mini-communist, but it's obvious that this doesn't just fit into a modern society policy, I insist, Western as it is ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.117.0	Thank you very much. And, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the words of Mr Salvador Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.118.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies the deputies. The CUP, in its original text, proposed to us that the Generalitat have the right of preferential acquisition, right of tanteig, of withdrawal, on any transfer or sale of property, already agricultural, rustic or forestry. This means the noranta_per_cent of the surface to Catalonia. Little joke. And so long as it was, then, a payday that worked his whole life and wished to give to his daughter, for example, that he wanted to incorporate into the land, or rather that he wanted to bring them to a family society to improve its management. It's the same. Or else, the generality has the right to stay on this land. This, allow me to say, is certainly pure interventionist communism. In fact, you already wanted it in the general policy debate, so we proposed it as a point and, at that time, on behalf of the Republican Left and of ourselves, of Junts per Catalunya, we discussed it and this point was removed from its resolution proposal; but you insist. And now, as a result of the process of events of these days, of the different groups, they have not narrowed down the abst and have not excluded the most flagrant cases, which are those that make reference to the transmissions between family members or owners..., pro-individuals. We, Junts, share the experience in those cases of speculation, in those cases that come from the sources of reversal, of oligopolis. And so much so! The problem is that in such a big and transcendent subject we have to be extremely curios in writing, as we define these questions. And the final text of this young man is not people, curos, and fix it. If I have kept his proposal for maximum, or if I am right in the name of universal silence and retraction, and what they do, therefore, is the result of group discussions, list a few exceptions, which are the ones I have listed. But what do we do with all the other cases that we're not looking at? Don't they realize that the Catalan pagework in this sense is immense? I give you some examples. If a page wants to sell its land to a two-populated neighborhood over there, because all their lives they've shared work and shared it, the generality has a right of withdrawal. If a page wants to bring the land to a shared company with an agri-food processing company with which it is associated in order to generate added value, then the Generality has right of withdrawal. I wonder if we, like the administration, have the right to prevent these things. And I don't like it, as they said these days: "No, Salvador, that's... calm, because the Generality in these cases will not exercise the right of aunty and, moreover, let's say that we will not harm the small and medium farmers. Do we still have to spend money on the good will of the generality? And if we have a working technique that uses the partial literality of the text? Or if some years from now they govern others with a law that we have, so we have given them ambiguously? I think I might be very professional. That's very serious. I would say, after all, that it has to be European and that if what we want, then, is to have a good law, it has to start with a good young man, not a confused man. Therefore, a motion text that goes back to focus and says that the Generality will be able to exercise the right of choice in cases of speculation on the part of oligopolises or inversion funds, for example. We, totally agree, that we can make a deal when they're around. But with this text open, imprecise and completely interpretable, this, therefore, will be agreed with other groups, but with us it does not count. The Administration never has to put before its tax-invasive paper or its real function, which is to help with, for example, France with SAFER, eh? , a public land bank service with intermediation, that what it does is that voluntarily the owners can subscribe to it, but does not expropriate, only in cases of public interest, such as shared gardens, such as educational projects, eh? I come back a lot for the country, and the page you need is to help yourself. Do you mean we don't have to work because we can involve in the transformation and marketing of their products, in innovation, in generating added value, in being able to fix people to the territory thanks to the work places they believe in, in being able to actually accompany them with infrastructure, with services? Why don't we apply this right to industrial soil as well? Why don't we apply it to the habitation, right? And so we already have the whole pack. I'm done. Identify and promote agricultural land in waste? Yeah. Why don't they come back speculating? Yeah. Fighting the black horse? So much! But the solution is that the government's anti-Citizenship abuses, in this, they won't find us here. And affectionately, let me just say that you, that you are normally not at all, so today, we, in defense of freedom, of the rights, of the sovereignty of the people and especially of the page, tell them not to. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.119.0	And, finally, to pronounce on the papers presented, has the word the deputy Mr Pau Juvillà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.120.0	Well, I think there'll be a fun outcome in the social area, an interesting outcome, from this vote. I don't know if the word "communism here between the hemisphere" had been called many times, but we can still call it, if you want, without..., to us it doesn't make us, eh? A couple of very short things, a couple of explanations. The game of the rich and the marquis, tell them we do, that we have different models. You have the pattern of the landforms of the Marquises of Alba. In fact, there was one of his family who went out the other day with a vain, therefore, from his party. We have the model of the rabassaires and the Obrer and Camperol Block. So they're different models. To the company of the commons, thank you; very interested in the topic of communism and aunty and retraction, we point it out. And to the Lords of Junts, tell them to say that history is repeated, right? It's Gatopardo's place to change things so they don't change. The year 34 the Lliga voted against..., the Lliga and the Agricultural Institute of Sant Isidre voted against the law of conreus. The year 2008 Convergence voted against the law of conreus. And today, the year 2021, together they vote against a bill of law to recover the right to land. Therefore, history is repeated, unsuspectingly or fortunately. I, finally, therefore, to the people of the PSC..., to the Lluïsa – forgiveness –, of Esquerra, and to the Rosa, of the PSC : many thanks for the work, for the patience you have done. The proposals support the objective and I think it is very interesting, let's say, redundant, because they support and support us in the objective – they support the objective and they support us in the objective – which, as the proposal says, is to compromise 'in terms of legislative procedures that allow us to stop speculation. So many thanks to both of you, we did a job, and for patience. And, finally, a very short thing about personal title. Some good friends we share with Meritxell, who are pagers, had to come here today and couldn't come because they're working. I socialized the young man with them. They told me that very well, that it seemed very good to them. And they challenged me to say the land for which the work is to be done. So that's where the land works. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.121.0	The debate is over, and since the vote will take place after the substance of the next item on the agenda, is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] So if that's not the case, let's suspend the session until four o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.122.0	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the school in Catalonia]] [[302-00046/13]] The twenty-one point of the order of the day is the motion following the Government's inquiry into the school in Catalonia. It is presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, and has the word, to make the presentation, the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.123.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Well, today we bring a motion subsequent to the question I made last week to the Education Adviser, Mr Gonzàlez-Cambray, where we want to show that in Catalonia there is, as a result of the action, the action of nationalism, a problem with freedom; a problem with freedom in many ways, in many flanks. The first of them... Yesterday, for example, we heard a news, that the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia annulled a new linguistic project, a new educational project of a school, of a school, for not including Spanish as a vehicle language. That is the main problem of lack of freedom in school in Catalonia, which is that the right of parents to choose bilingual education, education in Catalan, Spanish and, if possible, also in English is not recognized. It is a problem, no doubt, with freedom, that some constitutionalist entities, such as the Assembly for a Bilingual School, are trying to resolve and are facilitating Catalan parents who are being deprived of their full power and, in some totalitarian aspects, which prevents them from gaining access to a fundamental right, which is to educate their children also in their mother tongue. We have also recently seen this problem of freedom with statements by the president of the Institut d'Estudis Catalans, Teresa Cabré, who said the other day – and I quote textually – that teachers..., when talking about the linguistic question and the question of whether to establish or – forgive – shield, consolidate Catalan as the only language in education, as the only language to carry in Catalan schools. Maria Teresa Cabré, president, I insist, of the Catalan Institute of Studies, of the Catalan Institute of Studies, said that teachers have to be convinced of the cause they serve. I don't know what that sounds like to you, but it certainly sounds to me like past and very black times in the history of this country. And, certainly, I regret that some in Catalonia normalize the fact that a president of an institution like the one I just mentioned says that teachers have to be convinced of the cause they serve. I find it really ominous, tremendous and very worrying that in Catalonia that is normalized. As regards concerted education, which is another central element of our educational proposal, I want to say and make it clear that concerted education is a guarantee of a fundamental right recognized by the Spanish Constitution and also by all the international treaties signed by Spain. Therefore, it is not a minor thing. And what's going on? That, in my opinion, in my group's view, concerted education annoys a certain vision of nationalism – and also of a certain radical left – which considers concerted education to be a threat to its social engineering project and its willingness to sweeten citizens. Because, indeed, concerted education allows for an area of freedom, it enables parents to respond to this right to choose the education of their children, also in moral terms and, yes, also in religious terms. Because I sincerely believe that one of the problems and one of the great causes for which concerted education is so denosed in our country – both in Spain as a whole and also in our autonomous community, in Catalonia – is precisely the galloping anti-clericalism, the rancid and caspian anti-clericalism of a part of the radical left of this country and also of Catalan nationalism that joins that crusade – or anti-cross – against the concerted school. Concerted school is a fundamental pillar of education in Catalonia; the Concerted School has been a fundamental complement to a quality public school in our community and throughout our country. And, therefore, the normal thing would be for us to recognize that contribution from the concerted school. In this motion, too, what we want to do is to claim the importance of daycare centres, from kindergartens from zero to three years, because we consider that they have been one of the great ones affected by the lack of priority in educational matters of the successive governments of the Generalitat. In order to carry out this project of social engineering of the Government of the Generalitat, of the last governments of the Generalitat, huge amounts of money have been necessary that have ceased to be spent on what really matters to the citizenry and what is really fundamental to the progress of our society; among other things, that education from zero to three years. And to recognize – I think of justice – also the importance of the private network of day care centers. Moreover, there are aspects, such as extending concerts to both the baccalaureate and the upper and middle grades, which seem to us to be aimed at greater equality, greater equity in the distribution of public resources and a more just and democratic society. Those are basically the points we bring in this motion and we would like the support of most groups in this chamber. Thank you for everything, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.124.0	To defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.125.0	Thank you, President. First, move that we will support the motion in its entirety. And we had tabled an amendment to include a reference within concerted education – then there have been other amendments that have been tabled in the same sense and that we know that they have been accepted –... to include, I said, differentiated education. And only one point: I say 'differentiated, and I think language is fundamental, and it is not innocent or casual that some refer to it as segregated education. Terminology is neither minor nor innocent, as I said a moment ago. Segregation in political terms entails different rights or marginalization of a collective. So that we understand each other: apartheid; there was talk of segregation in South Africa, and that is shared by everyone regardless of the ideology they have. Differentiated education is differentiated because there is no segregation. Children have exactly the same educational plan. Children have exactly the same rights and freedoms and are subject to the same rules. So, you can't talk about segregation. The argument is not mine. The argument is Hillary Clinton's. I am saying this, because she is one of the people who has expressed himself more and more in favour of this educational model, because as you can imagine, I was a little dismayed to quote Pilar Rahola, who is the person who in Catalonia has most defended differentiated education, with arguments very similar to those used by Hillary Clinton and which I fully share. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.126.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Socialists and Units for Progress Parliamentary Group, Mrs Esther Niubó has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.127.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Well, this young man allows us to have another important debate about the educational model, in concrete terms about our model of the Education Service of Catalonia, which integrates public, private and public-funded ownership centres, the concerted ones, and that we understand that it is a system that, unlike other autonomous communities, has worked reasonably well in Catalonia. Obviously, from the PSC we defend education as a public service and maintain the commitment with the education service and have no problem in saying that the system's whole is underfunded and that, also in the case of the concerted centres, if we want them to be co-responsible, they are compromised with public service objectives, too; that is to say, they must complete the need to ensure fairness and the fight against segregation, with a balanced schooling of the student, with an inclusive education system – and, therefore, to educate students with specific needs of educational support – that work for social cohesion and also that they do a mixed schooling, that co-educine and, therefore, that they do not belong to either sex or gender. And that's why we can't vote in favour of keeping school funding differentiated. We believe that it is a respectable educational project, that families have freedom to sort, but in any case, it must not be financed with public funds. It's been years since we gave it away. Now we have the educational pact, at the Spanish level, approved a few months ago for the Spanish Government, which gives a legal umbrella not to renew these concerts, and we await the decree of concerted centers of the Generality precisely to strengthen this umbrella. But, as I said, if we want a socially compromised, socially compromised school, they are wasting more resources, not only to move progressively towards gratuitousness, but also because this school of these centers that I need must have the necessary resources that they deserve. Because if we do this only perviously, as I did at the last plenary session, those most elitist choices, which are precisely those that we do not want to finance with public funds. And, said that, we defended, as cannot otherwise be, freedom of teaching, freedom of choice of centres, but always in the framework of educational programming. That's what the LEC says in its Article 4. It does not seem to us to be a smaller issue than the educational authority planning the offer to guarantee this access to education on equal terms, and we are grateful to Ciutadans, therefore, that he has accepted this issue. With regard to the zero-to-three stage of education, we have clearly explained, therefore, the abandonment that has taken place for many years by the Government of Convergence – the one set up by Junts' predecessors – at the time precisely that it had agreed with the People's Party, and that it was very difficult for Esquerra to recover. Certainly, here they did leave the municipal public schools game to zero to expand the concert game. That happened for a few years. Well, everyone knows that this debt in most cases has not returned; that the current departure is on the basis of what was agreed eleven years ago with the municipalities, and therefore after all these announcements we would be very expectant in our own presupposition, in view of all the important resources that will come from the ministry and see if the current departure will be doubled to, precisely, predict the gratuity of families. But, in any case, they will agree with our group that we need to expand our seats to achieve universalization. It may encourage greater access by families, especially those with less resources, who are precisely those who are less educated by their children, which is to the detriment of fairness. And to say, on the other hand, that we are not in favour of universally extending concerts to post-compulsory, at least not in this way. We understand that in exceptional times such as encanny, and before the lack of a public offer exist, it was a good thing to set up punctual concerts temporarily in those most demanded format cycles, and so we defended it; but not that this is the only solution before the lack of a public offer. We understand that this doesn't have to be like this. What is needed is to create quality public places, accessible to students and thus strengthen the public system of vocational training. And here we are surprised that Ciutadans, therefore, did not accept our message in this direction. I, finally, on the subject of the adoption. To those who are so constitutionalists, I would like to ask if they respect the freedom of expression, the freedom of the chair, understand that we can even agree here. This is collected, it is a fundamental right collected in Article 20 of the Constitution, as is the production of textbooks. And to what fans say liberals: can't we agree? Can't they agree to promote freedom of thought, the critical ability of the student? One thing is that public institutions, like a school, remain free of party contents, which are not politically instrumental; but obviously... this is what we share. The other thing is to ban banners, banners... can't there be banners that alert the climate change, against male violence, against retailing in educational centers? If not, what school are you imagining? Politics, no; ideological freedom and the transmission of democratic values, yes; with the limitation of respect for human rights, obviously yes. In short, we are asking for a separate vote from points 2, 2a and 5, which for us could be voted together – and here there will be a separate vote from Units for Forward – and also from point 7. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.128.0	Thank you very much. Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the words of Mr. Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.129.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, very late. If we could vote for the title from this young man, we would surely have entered a school in Catalonia for Catalan school. This is the model of Catalan school that we defend: a Catalan school endorsed for the Catalan education law of Catalonia; a Catalan school that develops, deploys the Catalan education service, and a Catalan education law that was approved for this hemicle in 2009, when the Ciutadans group had three deputies, which makes us think that it makes a time of linguistic consensus, of country consensus, to re-work another time these linguistic themes important for us, important for the Catalan school, and to be able to reverse the xifra of 46.8_percent of teachers who are always working in Catalonia. We will give full support, obviously, as it could not be in any other way, to the Department of Education in a promotion plan and use català at school. No proposals were accepted to strengthen the Education Service of Catalonia. A Catalonian education service that in the government pact between Junts and Esquerra we develop in terms such as what I will now read: "Develop and implement a system of financing the educational centres of the Catalonian education service, or to speak of universalization and progressive freeness of education between zero and three years; to ensure a sufficient and quality offer integrating public and social initiative, and to maintain the LEC, to finalize its deployment and to work for the real improvement of the Catalonian Education Service, advancing in the full freeness of education, guaranteeing the adequacy of the centers supported with public foundations. If we go into the small detail of this young man who presented us today, let me tell him that, about the debt of the joints, he is returning. He hasn't left anyone at the stake. Let's move on to the gratuity of the first cycle, and we must also move on to the universality of this gratuity. The Law 5/2020 of fiscal measures is unfolding, which returns this debt to the joints. So, we're on a positive line of work. As the counselor has explained more than once and twice in appearances, this government has planned the progressive gratuity of the zero-three stage and will begin with I2. And we will age for the progressive gratuity and the universality of this gratuity. They're talking about encouraging the creation of more seats at the gatherings. Look, I don't know, if technically this is the right line. More places need to be fostered... Birth and demography don't know if they're pointing at this line, but above all, what needs to be done is that the current places in this zero-three migration to the public system, to the department and to the migration, which are supported throughout Catalonia's education service just like that. Talk about expanding post-compulsory concerts. It happened; it happened this year. It took this year to solve an expansive situation of the FP. Despite the difficulties, it was done and it was done very well. But we believe that it is certainly more important to work in the line of keeping the current concerts, in the face of demography and birth, and that they serve in the post-compulsory also in order to lower the rates and improve the attention and quality of teaching. The set, on text manuals, is absolutely a pamphlet, ideologized and distorted text, as it was also – today it did not speak again – in terms of social engineering..., at his inquiry he spoke related territories with acquaintances. Mr. Martín Blanco, frankly, you, who is a critical person and who likes parliamentary debate, no..., I was negatively surprised by the relationship between surnames and territories that he made, or relate totalitarian, communist and socialist regimes to what the Government of the Generality is doing. On inter-initiation, these figures that you say are really unacceptable, but it would be unacceptable if they were true. By the end of 2022, stability and consolidation... we'll be in 13.4_per_cent. We'll vote against it all. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.130.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, Mr Joan Carles Gallego has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.131.0	Well, good afternoon to all of you. Well, we'll vote against this young man. We had submitted a couple of papers; they were not accepted either. But we cannot vote in favour of this motion, except because it is infumable and entrepreneurship, because I believe it places some elements that run counter to an educational model that focuses precisely on freedom of education and on the higher right of infants to be educated in freedom. I think that what this young man wants is to try to avoid and confuse this right of the child with education and replace it with freedom for the parents to choose how they can teach their children; that it may seem very weak in theory, but they are actually betting on an education model that is segregator, a confessional education model, and a dogmatic or scientific education model. And that's what everyone and every one of the points there is in this young man. The Constitution defends the right of the infant to education, to an education that fully develops the potential of his personality, with respect to coexistence and to the rights and freedoms of speech. Each and every one of the elements located here seems to be contrary to this fundamental principle, which I believe is what must be respected by the Catalan education system. He's betting on a secretive school. The placement of the concerted school, as it is situated in the text presented, when it is even talking about those schools that secrete girls and girls by sex, say, in different places, I think it is a placement that ends up secreting students according to their origins, depending on the pre-selection that the centers can make. And that's what we think can't be accepted. Just as there is the possibility of a confessional education, an education that does not respect the diversity of beliefs that can hold the boys and girls. Religious education must go outside the school hall. It is not possible to learn that in the school hall it is possible to place an element of education of the religion, of a certain religion, because you end up having a confessional school and, therefore, a scientific school. Just like the plantation in point 7, which is, in short, a plantation of dogmatic school, of scientific school. With the excuse of denouncing this theoretic indoctrination that they repeat insistently, what is being questioned is the freedom of chair to schools and institutes, the freedom of the teacher to organize the educational processes, the processes of learning of the students, adding an ideological neutrality claim, when there has not been possible ideological neutrality, because it is impossible, because it is precisely dogmatistic that the ideology can be neutral. There has been no ideological neutrality and to set it so precisely is to bet on a dogmatic school, on a scientific school, in which the currents of science cannot be countered, which can be contradictory between them, but which have boys and girls all right to know them and to be able to develop them. Therefore, we understand that in the measure that is proposed a segregating, confessional, dogmatic, scientific education model in these proposals, they cannot vote in favour of it. There are two points that try to put some proposals in relation to questions of employment. One in relation to the reality of an unfair situation of interested personnel, obviously excessive, and denounced everywhere, and that we are working to find forms of stability. But the formula that is put forward in the motion is an even perverse formula, because it poses the working duality, the possibility that you will have the workings, but that this staff that today is interested is consolidated as such, with a situation in a few languages, without the rights that would correspond to them with transparent and public processes that guarantee precisely access to public office with full rights, leaving them dead, consolidated in processes to be extinguished. The same is true when it comes to the educational inspection of transparent and public opposition processes, obviously, as it cannot be in any other way, but the educational inspection does not cease to be a docent body to which..., in order to access it cannot be in the way it is proposed, but it must be placed in the precise framework of the teaching career, of the possibility that those people who know the reality of the educational system of educational centres may, through these obviously public and transparent selective processes, value merit and ability, may acquire the condition of structural. Therefore, neither in these matters do we believe that the motion is acceptable. Therefore, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.132.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, the deputy Mònica Palacín has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.133.0	Thank you, President. Well, today I remind Members and Members that it is International Day against School Accommodation, and I think it is a good time here too, from the Farestoll, to encourage all of us, all of us, to work for so that our infants and young vaginas in happy school, that it is what we want, in short, to put all the tools in place so that there are no children and children in attendance, but also because there are no children and children in attendance. I also need to go to the cause of this problem. Well, our papers follow, in a decisive manner, the motion of motion, defending the work of the department, the work that each of the Directorates-General, and to its head before Councilman Cambray..., that from these Directorates-General, I would say, are carried out. And it's also what we tried today; it's like, we've always been with proposals in place for all and almost all the motions that from different groups are present. We've tried it today, too. But, Mr. Martín Blanco, with all the sympathy and gratitude that he has given us on our part, let's say that today he could sort between pragmatism or illusionism, between recognition of the country's educational model or less for it, between reality or lying, in short. And, in all cases, let's say he's sorted out the second option. Also a parentheses, because the points of this young man refer to the language. He freaked us out, a lot of us, because it's his flag. But he couldn't help but come here to the Faristol and start polemizing a little more towards the language and make his falcon. For what he does to the papers, which have rejected them all – no surprise –, say that..., recognition of the Education Service of Catalonia, with a single network, two titles, that coexist from years ago, and which have an objective, an obligation, allow'ml'arrogance, that is to age for the education of all children and young people of our country, from education, equality of rights, respect and freedom. This item is not accepted. For what he does to the return of the debt, so this has already been explained: if he is working there – calendars, execution, compromises... he also compromises to the gratuity of zero-three. Neither has this dream been accepted. An unrelevant point for what he does all the time. We don't need anyone. We cannot say the same as those who have published a list of names and personal details of teachers; I think you. [[Greetings.]] They want the generality to tell the gatherings that they think more places, so, yes. Miri, I'm putting two dice on them. The places offered by children's lars at this time do not reach, in the case of publics, a sixty_per_cent occupation, and in the case of private children's lars not up to fifty. So, maybe what we have to do is get old to occupy these places, because it comes, to these places, before creating new ones. This dream has not been accepted either. And for the last one, the reverse of inter-initiation, chiffon ball. Maybe they don't listen to the counselor, because there's a process of stabilization on the way. But do you know who won't get into this stabilisation process? No members of the inspection body, because it is essential to access the working being, but this was one of the fantastic items they bought from VOX. Miri, another example. I'm surprised you didn't come with the photocopy of the book, did you? , because..., the subject of gentilicism. The alien gentleman has nothing to do with national identity, it's a linguistic description; it seems incredible to me that you're still putting this down. And, well, lastly, I think I'm making this young man... he gave them a big curse, because they put a lot of contrasting aspects between themselves, didn't he? , from liberalism to the defence of public service and the rights of public school teachers. Look, today we're going to cast a negative vote on the whole place, because, unlike others – few, but others – there's been a margin of agreement on other occasions. This time they have sorted out a copy of the Ciutadans brand's manual and need the education model, aligning very comfortably to the side of VOX. But what can be expected of those who have attacked the Catalan school as an inclusive and non-segregative model from its beginnings? This is not only done outside the anti-fessist pact, but they are no longer there, but they are constantly legitimizing their ideology. Legitimizing this ideology is legitimizing the extreme right and accommodating it to institutions, playing its game, doing a weak favor to democratic values. We, in defense of the Catalan school, yes, and democracy, always. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.134.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And now it has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Manuel Jesús Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.135.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen..., this motion puts the accent sensibly and coherently – and, by the way, it is nothing infumable, as some have said here – in the freedom of teaching and of foundation and maintenance of educational institutions also in all cycles, something that no one in his or her right mind can deny, except the minds obtuse and obfuscate by the one thought, which we have also been able to see here how they have been expressed, and by liberticide totalitarianism. For VOX it always has to be above any initiative that supports educational freedom, as common sense dictates, and endorses the Spanish Constitution in its article 27. We have always defended all the school models demanded by the current Catalan society – all – public, private, concerted, mixed, differentiated – that are not segregating, as I explained very well in the last plenary – lay, religious, inclusive, special. They are all essential and convenient models for any society that is valued as plural – because it is plural – open and progressive. To underestimate some of these school models, and to do so in such an abrupt way as to stigmatize people socially and extort with the withdrawal of concerts, and even worse, even worse, to try to impose a single model of public, mixed and secular school, is to rule from behind the people and is to create inequalities in the face of the difficulty of parents who want to choose another educational model that differs from this one. On the other hand, as we agree on the free provision of children's education, we find it very timely to demand payment of the amounts of funds committed between 2014 and 2020 and not yet settled by the Generalitat to the municipalities, to the municipal schools. If indeed, as Mr Aragonès committed himself, in the last general policy debate, starting from the next course – in principle yes, but we will see it – P2 will be free for families of private social initiative nurseries, the Government must already start taking steps in this direction and, therefore, the first thing it has to do is pay its debts. Moreover, the demand to increase the number of public day care places is correct, as proposed by the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, but without forgetting the enormous social function of the 740 private day care centres that currently exist in Catalonia. By the way, I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the work and professionalism of private day care centres, without which the crisis caused by the lack of childcare facilities and the consequent neglect of the education of children would have reached even more dramatic dimensions. The Generalitat's disregard for private day care has been reflected in the abandonment they suffered during the pandemic. Ten per cent of private day care centres had to close last year due to lack of resources, 2,500 child care places were unfortunately – unfortunately – destroyed for Catalan families and 1,200 jobs – 1,200 jobs – went out. Unfortunately, fifteen per cent of private day care facilities today threaten ruin; in the short and medium term, unfortunately, they will disappear. Our proposal for a school check would solve these anomalies, since it would also guarantee the freedom of parents to choose the centre they like. The cost of public day care is set at €4,800 per year. The Government should hand over this amount to families to invest it in the municipal or private public day care square that they consider most appropriate. And finally, the indoctrination, which has been talked about here too, that many children suffer in schools through the dissemination of school manuals, banners, yes, posters as well, party symbolism as well, is an intolerable attack on the innocence of children and on freedom. It is necessary to uphold the principle of ideological neutrality in school, and for this reason the educational inspection must play a leading role in the protection of minors. That is why we call for a system of access to educational inspection only on the basis of public places by opposition. Currently – I have to correct the, Mrs Palacín – the eighty_per_cent of those who make up the body of the educational inspection is in interim. Finally, we agree to urge the Generalitat to immediately reduce the temporality of the thirty-thousand interim teachers, through recognition of merit, capacity and transparency through the realization of appropriate oppositions so as not to generate injury compared to the rest of the teachers. Many thanks for the extra time, Madam President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.136.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, has the words of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.137.0	Well, thank you, President. We will vote that we do not at the time of this motion, and I will try to make it very brief and synthetically clear the motivation of this "not at the time of this motion, to the integrity of its motion. Miri, you are raising a debate about the educational and school model in Catalonia from a model that we do not share in absolute – in absolute. And they do so in the wake of a youth of those in whom you give cat per lebre, with some proposals that maybe in case you could just be acceptable, but in the face of a youth that is, from our point of view, unacceptable – unacceptable. Look, you are defending a model based on diversity and inequality between schools; a model that, as we have already had occasion to debate on many occasions in this Parliament, generates, in a doubtful sense, school segregation and, therefore, increases social inequalities. For you, inequalities are not only acceptable, but also necessary to reproduce the social system that you swallow, which you want to build. And for this reason, a school system that separates, discriminates, separates according to creeds and ideologies, confessions, sex, economic, social, cultural and functional diversity. And look, for us inequalities are not absorbable, and eliminating them is one of our main goals, in the education camp, in the school camp and in all areas of society. You also defend that education can be a business; that it can be a business and profit. We argue that basic services and resources, such as education, are public, universal and free. You defend the freedom of choice of school and we categorically answer that we do not believe in the freedom to choose neither segregation nor inequality. The school which helps to reduce the social inequalities that capitalist society generates, and this will only be possible by means of a single, public, secular, universal and free school network. We finally bet on a Catalan school, with the català as the vehicle language in the mark of linguistic immersion. A democratic, critical, feminist, environmentalist and anti-feixist school in all stages of education. And for all this, I suppose it remains clear, we will vote that not to the totality of your motion. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.138.0	Finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word now the deputy Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.139.0	Thank you, President. Well, this last speech by Mr..., by the Member of the CUP, Mr Riera, is very illustrative and very symptomatic of what is currently in this Parliament and what is, let us say, the hegemonic ideology in Catalonia. He says he wants to end all inequalities, and puts on an equal footing a physical inequality, a gender inequality, with, for example, an inequality in religious beliefs, a difference in religious beliefs. You say there has to be a single school, which they want to eliminate, you textually say, "the differences in religious beliefs. That is why I said that, unfortunately, in Catalonia, in the Catalan public debate, in the ideology of nationalists, there is a deep anticlericalism that is rancid, caspian, carpetovetonic, and absolutely anachronistic. I really tell you from the most convinced agnosticism. I think that next to your..., your idea of school, all I can say is: live the concerted school and live also the concerted Catholic school, of course, because it is a guarantee of freedom [[applause]] And I'm telling you from agnosticism. For the rest..., Mr. Ten, from the affection I have, considering the Catalan school as a school that has to be exclusively in Catalan is really an authentic desori. The Catalan society has two languages: the Catalan and the Castilian. Therefore, in order to be an authentic Catalan school, the Catalan school should have a balanced presence of the two languages of the citizens of Catalonia, the català and the castella. That would be an authentic Catalan school. What you defend, in fact, in practice, is an anti-Catholic school, it is a school that lowers and excludes from the school curriculum the language of most of the citizens of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, I stop talking about Catalan school to defend a school that, in practice, is radically countered by the feeling and nature of Catalonia's citizenship. It is an anti-Catholic school, which you defend, we defend the bilingual Catalan school, which respects the linguistic and ideological pluralism of Catalan society. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.140.0	The debate is over and the fact that the vote will take place after the substance of the next item on the agenda will be taken into account if there is a separate motion for a vote. [[Raúl Moreno Montaña asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.141.0	Yes, President. Separate vote from points 2, 2a, 5 and 7, which could be voted in block. Not the 7th. [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] 2, 2a and 5, which could be voted en bloc, and separate vote from point 7.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.142.0	Okay. All right, thank you. [[Joan Garriga Doménech asks to speak.]] Mr. Garriga. I'm lucky I got a pointer. [[The president laughs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.143.0	We would ask for a separate vote on point 3
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.144.0	Three. All right. Any other petitions? [[Pause.]] Perfect. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation of Afghanistan and the role of the Generality in the gathering of refugees and respect for human rights]] [[302-00047/13]] So let's get to the twenty-two on the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the situation of Afghanistan and the role of the Generality in the gathering of refugees and respect for human rights. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word, to make the presentation, the deputy Mr Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.145.0	Thank you, President. Before entering Afghanistan, a few weeks ago, we were in Pakistan a few days ago, in the city of Islamabad. In the city of Islamabad there is a barri, a small barri, the same in..., could be, therefore, the Eixample barri or the barrier of Grace, within the city of Islamabad. It is a barrio exclusively of Afghan refugees, but not Afghan refugees derived from the last crisis, from the entrance of the Taliban on August 15 of this year, but only from the beginning of the 78, when a war began, an Afghan conflict that persists until today, which continued with the Soviet invasion. Therefore, we find people who carry between twenty and thirty years of refugees there. When you asked them why they left Afghanistan to all these people, so the reasons they gave you were different, right? Some say by reason of false motives, "the war came to my country and I went away; others by reason of political persecution; others by reason, indeed, of genera; others by reason of fame. And, therefore, each one had, a little, its motii. Also, when you asked the people who had just come out of Afghanistan or wanted out of Afghanistan why they wanted to go out and you asked them the reason, although it was obvious, the answer was also different according to the cases, because some of them say that because of the political persecution, of others and they say for the fame, many – many – women and they say for the fact, for the simple fact of being a woman, of others and they say « climate refugee society; climate refugees that the United Nations estimates that 2050 will rise to a thousand_million people in the world, which means a part of the world fleeing from the place, right? We live from space. And when we actually met with people who had not yet been able to get out of Afghanistan, for example with former Members of the Assembly of Afghanistan and Members of the Assembly of Afghanistan..., who, in fact, their findings were a bit – allow me 'in the expression' – blessed. First, why did you find yourself with someone who's doing the same job you do in this country? And then you felt a little bit like when we saw movies from the early years of Nazi Germany, when they were hindering us from looking for political dissidents from different habitats... so it was a situation quite steeped in these movies that I'm sure you all saw, because we found ourselves with people, mainly women, also, deputies, who were changing from home every day, who were getting tricks from the Taliban, saying, "Look, Islamic law doesn't allow you to do and, therefore, when and we find and kill; it caused every day to change from home, in cases without electricity, with blows outside, that they were exhilarating... This was, therefore, an experiment. Also journalists, like the one we got here last week. But the case of Afghanistan is a concrete case, it is a case that is now emerging in enough communication media, but it is a concrete case of many. In the world, today, according to the numbers of UNHCR, there are 82_million people, between refugees and internally displaced persons, people who have to move to their country, who cannot leave their country. Meanwhile, the countries that should not be receivers, or the country clubs, such as, in this case, the European Union, these last few years have devoted themselves to raising each more frontal cup: since the fall of the Berlin Wall, more than a thousand physical kilometres of walls raised to the length of the European Union; each more violent and with more resources of Frontex, the maritime police; the refugee camps that each day are more detention camps; the CIES, which we also have in this country; the omission of the rescue, of the legal and secure lives, or the persecution of those people, NGOs that they do. We would certainly need many minutes to explain everything we had to do, all the self-criticism that we had to do as we were, as the community, as the region, as the country, as the cities, at the front of all this; above all a country with Catalonia, which has the firm, full of will, but which remains to us sure that many margins of better. We have not tried to gather some of them in this House; we have also accepted some of the points that are likely to broaden it, themes..., and so on, for example, the candidacy of the popular UPC has taken it several times in the last parliamentary term and that has not yet been made, such as the issue of control to many – to many – municipalities of Barcelona, and that is the entrance door, very often, to access to universal health, education or in different areas. We also claim in this case, therefore, a transfer, or the transfer, directly, of very many competitions, for the realization in this gathering. We ask the Spanish State to open asylum offices where it does not have them at present, to open humanitarian corridors, to leave us, if not, at least to open us to this human corridor, and that all this, obviously, is also endowed with resources; resources that must not only come from the State, also from the Generality, of different departments. It is inter-depertmental, the gathering: passing from the Department of Health, the Department of Education, the Department of Feminisms, which is the immigration holder, obviously also the Department of Foreign Affairs. I, therefore, the plan can only be extrapolated to a department, but they must be diverse. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.146.0	It has the word now to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.147.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Wagensberg, for your time. We've been commenting before, from the young lady, who somehow asked me or I'm not, from the affected, too, let's say, the fact that we don't vote in favour of this young man's conjunction. We shall abstain from the assembly of the motion, bearing in mind point 4, because it is a point that we actually consider to have, therefore, a clear vocation of voluntarism, of humanism, a clear vocation, let us say it, of equality, and a clear vocation of help to our equals, in this case our fellow Afghans and other countries, of other rights that suffer from truly dramatic situations of oppression and persecution for their ideas, for their own sake, for their origin and, ultimately, I value very much, personally..., like the rest of my group, but I personally value their task of humanity very much, both in Catalonia as it did for the world of human aid, which I seem to be truly worthy of praise. Therefore, from here I recognize his pocket. It is true that I believe that many times in the Parliament of Catalonia there are motions, motions for resolutions and parliamentary initiatives which are clearly exorbitant. And when they say exorbitantly that they intend to fix the world of the Parliament of Catalonia, from an autonomous parliament. What, actually, are there things that we can do? Yeah. That Catalonia has always had a tradition of international cooperation that I don't think is insignificant? Effectively. I believe that from this point of view we have admitted this task that the entities, the international cooperation organisations that exist in Catalonia, make, but I believe that their proposal, in short, does, I insist, give the Parliament of Catalonia some skills that it really does not have. On the other hand, our concern for his youth is a concern that seems to me to be just, that it is precisely the fact of pointing out, of drawing up something that his group and other parliamentary groups of this chamber constantly deny, that it is the claim to place the current government of Spain of Mr Pedro Sánchez, and ultimately the joint venture of Spain, as administered by us, as a form of political organization of a particular society – the Spanish society is organized, is constituted in political terms, let us say, substantiated in the Spanish State –..., and the criticism that you leave on your own motion seems to be absolutely alienated, absolutely unjust. And I believe that from the point of view of human rights, of respect for international law, Spain..., and, moreover, this can be perfectly demonstrated in convictions; in the, let's say, the smallest amount of convictions our country has had in international courts – in this case, for example, in the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg – it is demonstrated that our country is a very respectful country in general terms with human rights. Therefore, I believe that it is also necessary from the Parliament of Catalonia to claim Spain, with legitimate pride, as one of the full democracies recognized for all international organizations, recognized for all international standards, recognized, among others, for example, for the democracy index of The Economist, recognized also for the international entity Freedom House. Its quality, from the democratic point of view, from the point of view of respect for human rights, from the point of view of respect to the state of law, I think it is absolutely undeniable. And, therefore, I believe that many times your motions, Mr. Wagensberg, and with all due respect that you know perfectly well that I have them, I believe that they do not go into reality at all. Spain is one of the states, let's say, that it has a more advanced democracy that respects more human rights. And from this point of view I think there's a lot of work to be done, both in Catalonia and in Spain, but I don't think that the starting point, the premises of which are part of many aspects are really adequate. It is more, I think that many times, as I said before, it is intended from the Parliament of Catalonia to fix things that are totally outside the abst of Parliament. In fact, his inquiry, Mr. Wagensberg, at the time seemed very interesting to me..., and now I don't want to leave him in a bad place, but his defense – because it was so, I don't want to leave him in a bad place now before his companions – from his cooperation with the Spanish Embassy to the Afghan, his valuable recognition..., for sure, brave, because it has to be good to be a member of a separatist party and to go out to the House of Commons to recognize the pocket, the work that the workings of the Spanish Embassy do; I think it must be good and I recognize it. I want to leave the wrong place, on the contrary, Mr. Wagensberg, because I value the people you have the ability, at least from time to time, to say the same things that you say in private, in public. And, therefore, I recognize this and I thank you for this recognition to the task that you will be doing for the Spanish embassies in the world. And that's all we can say about your young man. Thank you, Mr. Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.148.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.149.0	Thank you very much, President. After this exercise of the deputy Nacho Martín Blanco to know how to do and to recognize, as well as to recognize to the deputy Wagensberg also the work that makes solidarity, to lead in this matter, but I think that also to try to pose for the interests of the party, of the ambition of the party, a concern that I think we share the majority; not everyone, we can no longer tell all the parliamentary groups present in this hemicicle. The situation of the Afghan..., not that we talk more about it, is spoken out loud when the inquiry was made. In fact, we had talked a little before, also, about the dramatic situation that is seen on the border, that sees all the exiled and refugee people, not just what happened to Afghanistan this summer, that put it back in the conference, but because we are already coming from a dramatic situation of the past twenty years, where basically what has been manifested is that when the governments of NATO and when the Western governments decide to intervene in a country for humanitarian reasons, what has actually happened, most of the times, they are geostrategic and military objects. In fact, much of the money that has been invested in Afghanistan in these past 20 years, which has come to a great deal of international resources, has basically been spent on military spending. And not only that, but since 2008 the European Union countries have deported more than seventy thousand people, who have brought them back to live in Afghanistan because they considered that Afghanistan was a safe country. We have seen that since the beginnings of this year there were already more than 400,000 people forcibly displaced in Afghanistan, and what we ended up seeing in August was the finding of something that started badly, something that started already with an international aggression – and we remember the pathetic picture of the Azores that featured President Aznar – which ended another time more, in a humane drama of international dimensions. The movement wants – and we share the objective – to put on the table what we have to do to improve the reception of refugees. Not just the crowd, but also secure lives because we don't have the thousands of people we have who are dying in the Mediterranean and who surely would be a lot more if there wasn't the rescue pocket that NGOs like Open Arms and people like Óscar Camps do. And I also think it's a good time for this Parliament to thank Open Arms and Camps for the work they do, because it doesn't do much, in this very Parliament, we saw how it was insulted and how it was intended to denigrate and degrade the work it does. And we believe that it is precisely thanks to the solidarity of these organizations that they can support many of the people who believe in the sea and who are at risk and are at risk in order to achieve a more dignified and safer life. The motion places on the table things to be done at the level of the Spanish State. And we are already moving forward: we will all vote for them, because we agree that this is all to be done at the level of the Spanish State. And we're in the Spanish State, and that's right, but that doesn't mean that we, like a parliamentary group, can demand a lot of things that aren't going well. It is not clear from the past that the Spanish State has a percentage of denial of the asylum requests of the north-five_per_cent. This doesn't get out of hand, because we have a responsibility to these people who arrive. More than anything else in the process of dealing with these consignors, which condemns these people to a situation of precariousness, that they cannot have access to work, that they cannot register, because there are many gatherings – and that is why we have made a statement – that precisely prevent these people from registering and having access to basic services as salvation, as education. Therefore, there is an important level of denial that has not yet been understood why, if at the level of the European Union the percentage of approval of requests is of the thirty_per_cent– that is not that good, but it is much more. It also calls for the transfer of the competitions to the Generalitat de Catalunya. And we agree with that, because we also believe that it is the government that is closest to the citizenry and closest to the place where these people must live who must be able to attend to them. But it's also true that we have a lot of doubts that these wills that are expressed later are translated into resources to execute it. Because it's been a few years since we've announced a Catalan refugee platform, and we haven't just seen what this Catalan refugee platform has been translated into, which are the resources that have been allocated to it, which are the places that have been created, and which is the follow-up that has been given to these refugees. The resources, during all these years, have not increased, despite the fact that it has increased the number of asylum seekers, and that is why we have asked that there be more resources for the Department of Equality and Feminism, which is now to gather them. But we have also called for the presuppositional scenario to be fulfilled by the director of development cooperation, because the best way to defend Catalan cooperation and Catalan solidarity is to allocate the necessary resources to it so that they can work in the gathering of these people in origin, but also in the defense of the rights of these people in the countries in conflict. And that's through resources. There is a commitment from the previous government, through the director plan, that 2030 will come to 0.7_per_cent, and there was a commitment to increase by 20_million euros each year the official aid to development in Catalonia. This, for this year, would mean reaching almost 100_million euros in official development aid. We'll see if this commitment is fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.150.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr David Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.151.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I shall stand on the points of the motion. We, in the first point, will vote no. We think that, indeed, we do not agree that the systemic and arbitrary denial of protection claims should be halted, because it is not being done. That is to say, it is true, there is a very large contingent of people who do not have an answer, but it must be said that Spain is one of the countries with the most asylum requests of the world – of the world – from all over the world, eh? Indeed, Germany is also one of the others, but we are one of the countries with the most asylum requests from all over the world. There was an asylum office – you already know it – equipped with fifty you will work; at this time you have two hundred you will work. And that's, a little bit, too – and I have no problem saying – from the Republican Left to the Congress of Deputies; not Mr.Wagemberg, but the Republican Left Parliamentary Group, which has insisted on all these issues during this presidency. So this office is going to go from fifty to two hundred. And we're also doing a huge job on this subject, and so we disagree that there's a systemic and arbitrary denial. I would also like to put in value – and I will speak only of Afghanistan, Madam President; although Mr Wagensberg has spoken of other countries, I will only speak of Afghanistan – to highlight the role that Spain has played in this whole operation. We think that the army is talking about a repatriation package of 800 people; in the end there were 2,200. We have to say that the air bases of Morón, Torrejón and Zaragoza have participated throughout this deployment, with Catalans who have participated throughout this deployment. And we also have to say one thing that is very important to us: in the case of Afghanistan, zero denials of asylum – zero denials of asylum –; now, zero, eh? That is to say, of all those who say, in this case – in this case – of this young man, zero, That said – and the deputy said it, and I agree – can you do things better? Yeah, huh? On behalf of everyone. On the part of the State, on the part of the Government of the Generality and certainly also on the part of the joints. We will also vote that not in the second point of the young lady. I believe that on the subject of assumptions we leave the Congress of Deputies that I debate. The discussion of the assumptions I think is going well between the different parliamentary groups that will eventually support these assumptions there. I would not like the Congress to say to the Parliament of Catalonia what is to be voted on and what is not. And, therefore, we will vote that also not at this second point. We will abstain at point c, even though we are also partially in agreement at this point, so that we can work on the development of this rule. For the rest of the points, most of us will also vote yes. But there are points, for example the point and, that we will also vote that no, because the procedure of application for international protection cannot be converted into an alternative way of legal migration for other people who do not meet these requirements. Our goal is to promote regular and secure migration for economic migrants, precisely by giving this international protection to the tax assumptions that are already foreseen. At the f point we'll abstain. In favour of the proposals put forward by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I believe they are accepted and we will vote in favour of them all, except in the case of the subject of the assumptions. And we will also vote in favour of paragraph 4 of the resolution. In any case, I'd like to comment on that. I think it's a theme where we all need to get better. I think they're doing... from the point of view of the Government of Spain, they're working in a very appropriate direction, as well as the human problem they represent, as well as the great human problem. We've seen it several times in this House, all this big problem I think is working on in one, let's say, proper direction. And as the representative of Ciutadan also said, not only in the matter of democracy, but also in the matter of human help we can assume what all our administrations are doing. All right, all right, Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Madam President, I would like to ask you for a separate vote on paragraphs 1 and 2, which could be voted on jointly, point c i f, and point 3, at the vote on the agenda, a, b and c, which could be voted on jointly. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.152.0	Perfect. Thank you very much, Congressman. I haven't taken any notes, but I'm sure I'll be fine with the extra help. Next, and on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.153.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. And good afternoon to you all, honourable Members. The motion brought to us today by the Republican Group seems to us to be an irresponsibility of those who seek to resolve major international conflicts with simplistic and populist proposals. Look, the war in Afghanistan has been a failure of the West. A conflict involving twenty-seven thousand Spanish military personnel who have collaborated in the fight against Islamism, against the advance of the Taliban and on very important humanitarian missions. It should be recalled that the Afghan conflict was resolved by a balance sheet of one hundred and two Spanish soldiers who had fallen into service. And from this atril I want to express our gratitude and pride to all those who gave their lives for Spain. [[Some applause.]] Last August, following Joe Biden's arrival as President of the United States, the Americans led a hasty withdrawal of troops from Afghan territory, at a terribly delicate time when the Taliban were regaining more power than ever. And that hasty withdrawal has left millions of Afghans, millions of Afghan women and girls at the feet of the Taliban. Well, what you're asking for in this motion is irresponsibility. From VOX we already urge the Government of Spain to repatriate all the collaborators with whom Spain has a duty of justice and loyalty. In addition, we have called for priority to be given to the repatriation of members of the Afghan minority of Christian religion, since it is our Christian brothers who are suffering genuine genocide in the Middle East and in so many other Islamic countries. Having said that, the proposal that makes us welcome Afghans in a massive way is a misconception for our national security and coexistence, in addition to an absolutely intractable proposal in economic and social terms. Islamism poses a real risk to the West. And this is not the first time we have faced this threat, for since 2015 Europe has suffered more than one hundred and twenty jihadist attacks that have dried up the lives of four hundred Europeans. The mass reception of Syrians involved the entry into Europe of hundreds of jihadists camouflaged among refugees, and it was precisely these goodist policies that opened the door to terrorism, butchery and terror within Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, the humanitarian corridor you are proposing to import Afghans massively is a veritable waste. Afghanistan is more than 6,200_kilometres away, and it has no meaning that you intend to cross them here, between Afghanistan and Spain, countries such as Uzbekistan, Iran, Pakistan, Oman, Arab Emirates, Egypt, Tunisia, Qatar, Jordan; all of them Islamic countries where they share the same religion, the same way of understanding life and the same values. In short, countries closer geographically and culturally. Ladies and gentlemen, what Esquerra Republicana proposes to us today is a pure parliamentary posture, an irresponsibility that compromises the national security of Catalans, which compromises the survival of our national identity and the permanence of our values. The European Union has already warned of the serious risk posed by the massive reception of Afghans. France, in fact, has already carried out the first identifications and detentions of refugees, which turned out to be Taliban. And we here can't take that same risk. Because Catalonia is overcome by the immigration invasion that has encouraged both separatists and socialists. Multiculturalism has ended security in the humblest neighborhoods of our land. The economic and social crisis has led thousands of Catalans to unemployment and the tails of hunger. And the position of VOX is very clear: as long as there is only one unemployed Catalan, one family without resources or one household without bread, we will not allow the money of all Catalans to be used to welcome those who have just arrived. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us be sensible, the Spaniards first. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.154.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.155.0	Well, thank you, President. If we go back to military activities with European participation in the later decades – those of NATO, those of the United States of America – in those that have counted with the approval or participation of the Spanish State what we find there, without exception, is a long and macabre list of failures. No conflict, no – no – has been resolved democratically, in the context of these military interventions, nor with respect to the right of the people to collect and to their sovereignty; however, they have since left territories of government, territories in conflict, territories of democratic regression and of loss and violation of fundamental rights. Or, on the other hand, territories in the hands of weapons, drug trafficking and trafficking. Or, in the past, territories in the hands of titular governments serving imperialist interests, without democratic guarantees for their people. A long and tragic list of elements alleged to be– alleged– compensated for reconstruction programs that have resulted in a new phase of conflict and interventionism, in order to transfer resources and negotiations to the enterprises of the invading states and their military industrial complex. A new phase of plundering and bottling, and always – always – seeking control of raw materials and strategic territories, against the rights and sovereignty of the people of these territories. By giving these interventions we always find a range of economic crises and humanities that aggressors or invaders consider, in economic language, externalities, of which, as a result, they are not a responsible fan or who pretend to hide or conceal with engrunes, under the form of humanitarian cooperation, often also underlies the logic of military intervention. Nor is he a fan responsible for the forced migrations that these crises produce: walls, tanks, Frontex, persecutions, repression, CIS, concentration camps, detention camps, expulsions, hot returns, denial of permits, precariousness, racism, xenophobia and fascism. I always – always – violations of phonemental rights. We denounce these military interventions, all of us, defend respect for the sovereignty of the territories attacked or invaded and the rights of their people and, at the same time, demand and demand the assumption of responsibilities in terms of recognition and reparation of the damage caused, among other aspects, by means of the gathering, the refuge and the asylum. And yes, we want to be a home country, a country for everyone. Against no one. A country for all and for all. A country of recognition of rights and inclusion. We want to be a country of reference in the recognition and defence of the rights of citizens and in the protection of the human, social, civil, economic and political rights of all people, come from where we come. For all this, we thank and celebrate this motion and we will vote yes to its totality. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.156.0	On behalf of the Grup Mixt, she has the word, now, Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.157.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, once again in this Parliament we are debating a resolution, well, in this case, a motion, on international policy. I think it's time to remind them again that Catalonia is not a member state of the United Nations, as you promised in that science fiction story of yours that was the Junts for Yes program. Look, the governing parties already have several plenary sessions that are filling us with international issues on which this Parliament has no competence. But I think they do so so that they don't have to discuss the mismanagement and mispolicy their parties are carrying out from the government. Well, this Parliament has a function – I do not think we should repeat it, but I think so, because it is clear that it does – to control and urge, in any case, the Government of the Generalitat. But it turns out that half of this motion is addressed to the Government of Spain. I wonder if it is that Esquerra Republicana does not have representatives in the Congress of Deputies, or maybe it is that Esquerra Republicana does not trust its deputies in Congress; that, well, that would have its logic, because I think no one trusts Rufián, that gentleman who told us that he was going to be eighteen months in Congress, but who has already been in the chair about seventy. Well, let's get into the content of the motion, which has no waste. For example, in the second point of the Republican Left motion, the European institutions and their member states are required to comply with the legislation in force. Tips I see I don't have for myself. Because, of course, this is very funny: that you, that Republican Left, demand law enforcement... I mean, for others yes, but for the Generalitat, then never. You are the party of disobedience; it is the party that defends that the law only has to be enforced when it comes to you, when it gives you the will, right? , those who believe that complying with legality is an option rather than an obligation. You, too, who came here, who trampled on this Parliament, the Statute, the Constitution and even European principles, for I believe you are not to teach anyone lessons; although, in fact, it seems to me that no one here is listening to you now. If we continue with the following points the motion, at point 3 of the motion at last you begin to address the Government of the Generalitat ; but, frankly, it is a toast to the sun, what you are asking in those points. Look, millions of Afghans are living a real tragedy after the departure of the country from Western troops. For years, armed forces such as the Spanish one, to which we owe great recognition, guaranteed some stability and some security, guaranteed that the rights of millions of women, who were able to study, who were able to work for a future, were respected, at least in a minimal way, what was possible, but practically all of this has disappeared from a pen. And the Taliban and identity fundamentalism, therefore, again put at risk not only the rights and freedoms, but also the lives of Afghans. And you in this motion tell them things like studying Catalan, and you remember that the Generalitat has offices abroad, that I, honestly, still don't know what they're for. Beyond making bad propaganda from Spain and, therefore, bad propaganda from Catalonia, I tell you that I don't know what it's for, because the more you spend on foreign action, the less companies and the less investments you come to Catalonia. And in its nationalistic ensimism, I do not think that they realize the harsh reality of Afghanistan and the enormous challenge facing the international community. I think it's immoral – it's immoral – that you take advantage of any tragedy – and I also told you in the previous plenary, with the Kurdistan proposal –..., it seems immoral to me that you use any tragedy to make moral boast and to continue selling your nationalist mantras, instead of offering real solutions in institutions where you have the competence to take those solutions. We are, of course, in favour of defending the reception of refugees, of defending respect for human rights, but effectively, without toast to the sun, without political propaganda. I believe that we must bet on the genuine solidarity of people who suffer persecution, who suffer and who flee from terror, but we must do so responsibly, coordinating efforts among all administrations and also taking advantage of the knowledge of civil society. Therefore, what they should do is defend in Congress, as the People's Party does, a serious debate on Afghanistan, on the consequences also of the withdrawal of troops; a debate that, by the way, its Socialist Party partners always refuse. But do not come here, please, with debates that simply seek to cover up the mismanagement of the Government of the Generalitat in those matters that you do have competence, which, by the way, are not very few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.158.0	And, finally, in this turn of position fixation, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mrs Aurora Madaula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.159.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. Deputies... « Please, the Taliban are not believed, they have not changed. This was how an Afghan woman spoke to a journalist from the Ara newspaper in a report they made, explaining the situation that the Afghan women were suffering from when the Taliban came back to power. We believe in the culture of the country and in a system of international institutions and multilateralism, which should guarantee the protection of human rights and their application, but we see with sadness and pride that it is not succeeding. And Afghanistan is a living example of the frailty, the frailty of these international policies, and it's an example that's been hurting us for many years. Last September, from this Parliament, and through our president and parliamentary groups, we sent some cards to the Spanish ambassador where we reported the population's emergency situation to Afghanistan and the situation they were patenting because the embassy was closed, blocked. And, therefore, the embassy – the Spanish State – was not complete with Article 38 of the Asylum Law and did not guarantee the international protection of asylum seekers to the embassies. That's why we're going to sue again, we're going to demand it again in this case – that it certainly seems that the deputy from Ciutadans didn't read himself, when he defended the action of the embassies. And it's that the government of the socialists and the commons is clearly failing with their humane obligations, and it's not. Starting with the right of asylum, for example: the year 2019 Espanya will receive 118,264 requests for asylum, a cent_dividuit_per_cent of increment respects the year 2018. So, the rate of acceptance of these asylum requests was a five_per_cent; only one five_per_cent, during the year 2019, were accepted, close to 20 points less than 2018, the year that still ruled the People's Party, so that just over three_ thousand people obtained international protection from the State – from the government of socialists and commons. But neither does it do the work when we ask to define and establish humanitarian corridors for forced displacements, since it does not even execute the assumptions, the part of the assumptions intended for the humanitarian corridors of the general assumption of the State of 2021; nor has it reached Catalonia as well. That's why they understand that we can't approve the assumptions or believe in their assumptions, that they don't even apply, in the case of cooperation. And neither do they comply with the requirements that we made them from this chamber when we approved the motion, 2019, with the Government Torra..., we approved the motion of rescue operations in the Mediterranean, where we approved the offer of the ports of Catalonia for landings as safe ports before the impediments of the Spanish Government, which was blocking the ships of rescue and cooperation. It's not complete, either. Nor do they complete with warm returns, which are still being made. Nor do they complete with their promises of closure of ICES. And it's that we're pretty clear that most of the competitions that this young man is referring to are state competitions, that's true. And that's why there's a majority in this chamber that in theory wants, desires, demands, defends, votes an independent state for Catalonia. But, in the meantime, we want that... in this meantime, what we want, above all, is that it is satisfied with the international responsibilities in the matter of human rights – as it is, at least, respectful of the competences of the Government of the Generality, that they are not respecting each other – and also with the compliment of division of judgments – of the Constitutional Court, of the National Court, of the High Court of Justice of Madrid, which obliges them to transfer the competences of co-decision from the places of assembly to Catalonia – the applicants for asylum – respect for the promotion and support of international cooperation to Catalonia. Because yes, we want to gather, we want to keep the necessary tools to guarantee the human rights of refugees, a service that is better and more conducive, with a gender perspective, and that, therefore, adapts to the realities of women's needs, both for the availability of the network of information offices and for the learning programs of the Catalan language. And I'm done where I started. We want an Afghan free of the Taliban and with full democracy, where women become part of society and don't leave them, don't shove them into a burque or stone them to death. We want to defend a Europe free of racist policies, along the Frontex or the Spanish alliances with Turkey. We want to be present at all international institutions because he's old for human rights. And that's why – that's why too – we want, we defend, we need a good state, an independent Catalonia. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.160.0	I, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.161.0	Thank you, President. It's a great thing that Mr Martin Blanco has already left, but... in short, when he was asking why from here to the Parliament of Catalonia..., or he was saying that from here to here, from the Parliament of Catalonia, it's not possible to fix the world, obviously, therefore, that's it. But when our lives, our local policies have a global impact – our habits, our consumption –, what may be a fear or irresponsibility is that our policies do not even think about the rest of the world; that our actions, our policies from this Parliament are borderline. Therefore, this would be the answer that I would like to give to the deputy Martin Blanco, who is not there. And also add..., and not just to the White Martin, but I'm sure it also serves as a response to other interventions that defended the action of the Spanish government in the claus of migration policies. Congresswoman Segovia commented very well: the four-per-cent number of asylum petitions – four-per-cent number – is now being denied to the Spanish State. That good actions that have taken place in Afghanistan do not stop or delete from the map situations such as Tarajal, such as Ceuta and Melilla, such as Canàries, the world's deadliest route, such as ICES, etc. What he does to the intervention of other parliamentary groups is really a sad one or even a disaffection of politics from politics that any debate has to be contaminated, isn't it? , for other stories. And I allow the request to question VOX, which I had no intention of doing either now or at the end of the legislature, but... Ladies, your ignorance and fanaticism are the most united to Islamist extremism. You're authentic Taliban. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.162.0	The debate is over, and despite the fact that the vote will take place at the end of the session, after the substance of the last item, is there a separate vote request? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Sales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.163.0	President, for a separate vote on point 3.g.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.164.0	3.g. Perfect. I already have a separate vote petition from the Socialists and Unity Party to advance, I already have it written down and in detail. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Okay. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into economic action to combat concentration of wealth and social inequalities]] [[302-00048/13]] So let's get to the twenty-three point of the order of the day, the motion following the government's inquiry into economic action to combat the concentration of wealth and social inequalities. It is presented by the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Pomem. And you have the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mr. Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.165.0	Good afternoon to everyone. If we want to end social inequality, we need to act against work inequality. We talked about it the other day, when we presented the question that gives place to this young man. This is why, therefore, this young man wants to end social inequality by trying to act against work inequality. Because we know that inequality affects health, education or social conflict, which causes unhappiness. We also know that the market is the one that generates inequality, but we also know that the policies of governments determine the forces of the market; that a market without rules or controls is the most unequal, and it is not clear that a market without rules or controls is the most productive or competitive. Because it is not slavery, the most economical and most efficient system; if in case, it is the balance between regulated markets and the intervention of public authorities before injustices, economic power concentrations and inefficiencies, which promote higher levels of equality and also productivity and competitiveness. It is simply to look at what has been the economic and social success experience of certain progressive public policies in certain countries, the Nordics, or the social and economic defeat and the economic stagnation that certain countries see immersed in the fierce neoliberal policies. We don't just have to go to Xile or Argentina; we can look at America's United States. For this reason, the demands of the Government of the Generality are firm commitments and active intervention to reinvigorate the dynamics of the labour market and of the economic functioning that generate inequality. The House is talking about income policies, maximum abuse of wages and insurmountable minimum wages; it is talking about precariousness and fraud in the contract; it is talking about discrimination against women workers in the home and in the cures; it is also talking about large extractive enterprises and parasites in relation to the peppers, to which they externalize all risks. The motion is based on the premise that the Government is an economically active subject with the capacity to intervene on demand, such as the buyer of goods and services, in the logic of the rules of the market, and by offering, such as the provider of concessional services and the generator of public instruments, to modify economic behavior. The movement wants to put on the political agenda of the country the reality of an abusive wage sales, those that star the companies of the IBEX. We are talking about Ferrovial, of Inditex, of Banc Santander, among others, with other branches that cover salaries that represent 200 times, 148 times, 88 times the average wages of those companies. Our proposal is not that we all cover less: it is that there is a fair relationship between what comes to the creation of wealth and what is collected, that any one who pushes to the top has his proportional correspondence in the push to the bottom. Because what we want is fair wages, which we can reach in the framework of the social dialogue, from the concertation between employers and trade unions. That is why the government is also committed to negotiating it and applying it, requiring companies to work for the public sector or to do public service, and to do so in the public enterprises of the general public. Let's talk it over, wake it up and apply it. It is possible to catch up with the wage bill by guaranteeing a minimum wage of just reference, but finding the most unfair wages. We also propose that the Administration is committed to fairer working rules, because the debate on the reform of the labor reform is not an abstract or purely political debate, it is also played in companies that work for the administrations or that provide services on behalf of the Administration. We want them to be exemplary enterprises, which work for the Administration: temporality, priority application of the sectoral agreement and minimum wages must be the requirements for these enterprises which work for the Administration, so that we are introducing a major disruption in the labour market that will end up benefiting everyone. The Generality also has powers to fight fraud in the contract: we use labour inspection, we coordinate with the ministry, we work together against fraud. And we also work because the work of the women workers of the cures, of the lar, can come out. We are emerging from this submerged economy, creating public instruments that facilitate the right-wing employment contract, which is a guarantee for these people, both present and future. And obviously, we're also involved in corporate morosity. We avoid that big companies use the peppers to benefit in, to outsource them-there all the risks, because we know that the destruction of occupation generates inequality, but we also know that more inequality does not generate more occupation. What can generate more occupation is more equality, more efficiency, more knowledge, more salvation. A fairer society will generate more reversal than not a fairer society. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.166.0	It has the word, now, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.167.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. This motion addresses five very specific issues, all of which are very different. Each of the five themes deserves a differentiated treatment, debate, and I believe that they could be discussed much more deeply than with four brushstrokes and, here, in five_minutes, right? But well, you communists have remixed here barbecues with merinas, apples with lemon pears, etc. Let's try to give a review of this whole Macedonian issue. He says... the first block is talking about raising the highest wages in companies. Okay. It is something unpublished in any medium-developed country – unpublished – it is absolutely incompatible with any market economy. It is therefore an illegal, interventionist proposal. And, well, I ask you other questions. I think they're rhetorical questions. Do you think that an entrepreneur pays a manager a large salary without the manager generating a wealth significantly greater than his salary? [[You're saying, "Yes!]] Do you think he pays you out of pure philanthropy? [[You're saying, "Yes!]] Well, you live in Matrix... [[Rialles.]] You don't have to answer me, I know what you think about things, if not, you wouldn't have introduced yourself... Anyway, I know that all entrepreneurs are philanthropists, for you, and so on, but... Don't you think that the brightest managers would go to other parts of Spain where there wasn't this clause? Well, I think they'd go to other areas, don't they? , to earn more money, the principle of economic non-saturation. I will tell you so that you understand: do you believe that Messi would have played in Barça if you had limited his salary as you propose? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That's how they'll understand, maybe. Well, second block, Catalan minimum wage. Why not the Garrotxa minimum wage? Why not Bellvitge's minimum wage? Posts to adjust, set to mark the zum, to adjust the living conditions of some citizens of Catalonia... Finally, there are notable differences in price, in living conditions, in all these..., why don't they tune more? Indeed, they are rhetorical questions. And, therefore, we are against... By the way, this Parliament does not have the powers to regulate this either, it is the umpteenth toast to the sun of this motion. I would expel many companies from Catalonia, and the truth is that, with all the companies that have already left, really, there is no need for more pale nationalism as pointed out with the Catalan minimum wage. You are also about to condition collective bargaining to the sectoral agreement. Well, from our point of view, this is a delay. We think that priority should be given to the company agreement in order to avoid that in a country of SMEs such as Spain..., it is much more beneficial. The third block talks about digital food distribution platforms. We are also against – here we agree – the figure of the false self-governing and the precariousness of employment. And here they will always find us. We are also in favour of the pursuit of labour fraud, but we do not think it is fair or thoughtful to stigmatise, demonise and signal a particular sector. This is in many sectors, you don't need to point one out. There are many places where fraud can be combated. And turning a certain type of enterprise into the icon of fraud, because, in the end, it is neither fair nor reasonable. Fraud and bogus autonomy exist in many sectors, huh? , this..., really. Fourth block: working conditions of household employees. Totally agree. There is no need to create another political chiringuite or a general direction for this. It is not necessary – it is not necessary – that is, it can be helped in this sense without creating a general direction or I do not know what they have agreed on in what amendment. Secondly, we believe that it is not sensible or balanced to offer the same work benefits to people in a regular situation as to undocumented immigrants. That is, stop penalizing those who have come to Spain in a legal and orderly manner. And in the last block they also talk about lateness, don't they? Sounds like an interesting subject to me. We have to talk about this, of course. We know that many large companies pay beyond what is required by the law of lateness, the 15/2010. You have to work in that direction. But what all employers and companies are demanding is precisely what we have put in an amendment, isn't it? : that a sanctioning regime is created – a sanctioning regime –, which is what they ask, therefore, Pimec..., the big employers. Even a platform has been created for this, the observatory..., the platform for combating lateness, which Antonio Cañete directs, with good judgment. A sanctioning regulation in accordance with Act No. 15/2010. We know that they will vote against it, because they vote against everything we put forward; they do not even respond when we send them an amendment, that is, they do not respond, and they do so with..., very well, with pride. But believe me, it's compatible to be left-wing, to be polite, to be respectful... And I'm also going to tell you one thing: they're not going to vote for you anymore to behave in this shabby way. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.168.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.169.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors... I have to say that when I read the motion presented by the commons, the first point of them – the first –..., I was suspended. And I also have to admit that I didn't see the inquiry, but I ran to see the inquiry, because, of course, I saw Mr. Gallego telling an ex-director of the box that I should have collected much less, so, of course, I couldn't lose it. And, in fact, I followed her. [[the timer riu]] More or less accurately. I believe that, in this case, on this, on the subject of the self, the counsel's answer was more or less the same..., than we are as liberals. I'm sorry, but that's it, we defended... And in the end, it's the market, which regulates the subs. And I think a question has been asked, and you should answer; or no, better not answer. [[The timer laughs.]] But it is true: who determines that the self that is paid to any of us, including ourselves, is the right one or not? In this case, above all, when we talk about private enterprise, because in the end we are..., what we cover are under publics, and, therefore, here we could limit them. Then, I went on to see..., and to point 1.3, from this first point 1, that for me it is the most curious of all, so, I don't know whether or not they made a self-doubt, but to the deal with Esquerra and Juntas for Catalonia... Actually we would vote yes to this point, because they say "apply to companies and public and consortia this maximum wage. All right, we'd love for that to happen for many years before we find each other now. The great increases in the number of people in Catalonia have always been, say, in public space, never in real private space. So let me tell you that the first point, therefore, seemed really incredible to us, Kafkian, that we cannot share, and that this point is that we will vote... It's true, you're making a diagnosis that we could share. They speak of unequal pay... in the end you defend that there are brets, and it is true: brets of gender, brets of age, territorial brets... And there's not so much insistence on that, but there's territorial brets in the same space, in the same city. In cities..., I no longer speak of Barcelona, I speak of cities like Sabadell, I speak of middle cities like Terrassa, as it can be..., the West Valley, we have the municipalities with the lowest income of all Catalonia, which is Badia del Vallès, and the municipalities with the highest income, which is Matadepera, of all Catalonia, in the same region, in deu_quilómeters of distance. It's true, we could accept it. But, well, what they do, in the end, is talk many times about the diversity or reality we live in. The rest of the young man... you've talked about different points. Obviously, when we talk about the figure of the false autonome or this real fraud, that exists, so... yes, totally in agreement. In fact, we will vote in favour of most of the points, we agree. They're also talking about the real fraud we find ourselves in the healing and work of the home; it's also a reality. It's true that staying at the same place the top or wanting to get to the same level from this mechanism and at the same time talking about a very clear reality, like this, we don't understand. We don't understand the connection, but, well, we agree. And, obviously, because we have defended them many times, during different legislatures, all the measures against morositude, which are already demanded by the great associations of peppers, of Catalonia and of all Spain. Therefore, we would also agree on this. I say again: you have spoken at some point of arriving at equality through predispositional policies – I think that this concept was commented by Mr Gallego on the inquiry. We want to reach the equality by means of a model change – we spoke about the law of science today – a product model change... We believe that with distributive policies – not predispositive, but distributive... And never – never – must we confuse regulation, which is what we defend, like liberals, with imposition. And this is the difference I think we can expose or conclude after seeing this young man. Thank you, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.170.0	Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mr.Jordi Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.171.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Giró, deputies and deputies, good late. Well, we'll start at the end. To thank Mr. Gallego for the good disposition of the negotiations for the talks and transactions that we have made, and the company, also, Jordi Albert, d'Esquerra Republicana. I'd like to highlight a few points for the end. With the transactions we have made, we agree and will vote in favour of most points of the motion, except point 1. In any case, highlight important social and labour issues, such as defending that the application of the sectoral agreement prevails in order to avoid practices of labour devaluation in company agreements. This has to do with labour reform. In fact, a few days ago, a few days ago, it was announced that, in the end, the coalition of state government seemed to want to attack this issue, that it was a compromise and that it was not advancing. Also the topic of plant stabilization, as a possible factor of positive valuation in public calls and tenders. Or, for example, promote, from the government, a general direction of cures, organization of time and fairness in the work. Or also compromise its training and accreditation of skills to those working in the world, healing, very precarious, both in a regular and irregular situation. Therefore, it is fears that I think they are important and in which we share, after trading, what we can vote in favour. Point 2.1, reference salaries to Catalonia; in fact, completely agreed. In fact, the August 19 student vice president and economic advisor has already agreed to promote a study that you have seen that the minimum wage of state reference to Catalonia is neither balanced nor just. In fact, in those moments, I have already made use of resolutions that are at the level of the Council of Europe and at the level of the European Parliament, to fix at one sixty per cent of the wage a minimum wage policy in Catalonia around a salary of about 1,239 euros. Obviously, it's a lot over the 965s at these times approved by the state. This Catalan reference wages, in fact, more reliable return to the real situation of our shopping cyst, huh? , our CPI, from our home. And, therefore, to want to go through the « common state racer, in this sense..., therefore, it is not just for the citizens of Catalonia, who vote, think or do not think of an independenceist clause. What's wrong with us? Joquem in state politics. We are told..., statements by the vice president a few weeks ago, he says: "It has been categorically shown against fixing different minimum services per region, because it is a measure that would create citizens and citizens of first and second place, and break the rules of the market unit. This unity, which unionism always defends, condemns, in fact, to second or third citizens Catalans and Catalans with minimum wages, because with the same minimum wages they can buy, they can eat or they can consume, or even face the basic expenses of the lar, in thirty_per_cent or thirty-five_per_cent less than other regions, in this case, of the country..., of Spain, right? Therefore, not dealing with different situations condemns our citizens. Therefore, we think that a minimum wage of Catalan reference does not cease to be a structure of state. In fact, if we were independent, we would apply a Catalan reference wage – sixty per cent of the average wage already in Catalonia. Point 1, setting a maximum wage. Evidently, here..., the Councillor Giró has already defended him, too, on the day of the inquiry. Defending the maximum wage, actually, isn't it new either, huh? 2011, the UGT; 2014 Podemos included it in the electoral program; 2015 is now the Minister of Consum, Alberto Garzón, also made a proposal. There is an example of Switzerland, which dropped it into reference; an application of Israel, in 2016, in the finance sector. And the closest model we have is the model of Cuba. In Cuba precisely the 1st generation of 2021 have set the order, a maximum wage of 9,510_weights in thirty-two different salary scales, by categories, and a topall equivalent to 396_dollars. Obviously, we, when we defend being an independent state, independence, the model that we look at, obviously, as you can imagine, is not Cuba, but are more models of Nordic countries, more defensive countries, right? , more structured in the sense of having a market wage, as we say, with a free competition. Because, as the Councillor Giró also said, at these times, so, if we set a wage topall, that would impose on us..., many companies would fix different locations, or even all the talent could go to different regions. Another thing would be that we were talking about a model at European level; in any case, it would be a different discussion, which is not the object of the motion we have here, is it not? Neither does this young man, for example, speak of people who live in the public sector. We could get to talk, couldn't we? , of which strictly its market is the public market; or of companies, for example, of IBEX 35, right? It's different things. We think more about stimulating the added value of businesses, stimulating the economy of knowledge, distributing wealth through taxes... In fact, Councillor Giró also reminded us: approximately the seventy-eight per cent of what is collected in taxes to Catalonia was destined for spending social services, education, health, public transport, housing, etcetera. So we bet more on this formula than on this cubic example, huh? , to set maximum wages in a market economy. [[Some applause.]] Thank you very much. And, therefore, we ask, Madam President, separate vote from point 1. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.172.0	Thank you very much. The vote was taken separately. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left of Catalonia, has the word Mr Jordi Albert. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.173.0	Well, president, thank you. As a matter of fact, I had started the point intervention at one point of the escó and I ended up at another, so I apologize, because I couldn't find myself..., just like Companion Munell... Well, we could make a trip to Cuba folded and have a good time. [[Rialles.]] MPs, MPs, Councillors, Workers and Workers in Parliament, this is a young man who... first of all, I want to thank Companion Gallego for his willingness to negotiate, to dialogue and, finally, to agree. She's a young man we've been able to work on folds, and I want to thank her, because at the end of the day, our job is this. When we came out here to the Faroes, so we expressed our positions, but before we went out to the Faroes there is a job, a job of refreshments that no one sees but it is very important, because in the end it gives these results. And, therefore, I want to thank him for his dialogue dynamics and also that we have been able to reach practical agreements on all the issues that we have presented. And, in this sense, the content of the motion also helped us to agree, because we have very similar views, the Republican Left Group, respect those you raised in this motion. Starting with wage inequalities. In effect, it cannot be that 2020 there is a medium difference of twelve times between the highest and lowest wages – twelve times. Res justifies it – nothing justifies it. I also answer those questions. Does it justify it? No, it doesn't justify it. Because, in effect, it is not normal for this difference to be so great. Why? Because social inequalities also begin from the equal pay rights, just as they have long-lived repercussions when we have a pension system like what we currently have. These inequalities, therefore, we believe we need to redefine them, and it is good that it is debated and it is good that it is work. And, in effect, the reference minimum wage, the Catalan wage, is an important measure that we need to implement, and we need to continue to deepen at this least of the 60 % of the average wage. This, moreover, was very connected with another key element, which is public contract, public contract in our country. That we have a basic tool, which is essential, so that we can do so, so that we can enhance the social responsibility of companies, so that we can prevent those companies that do not respect sectoral agreements, those companies that do not respect internal democracy, those companies that abuse their workers' salaries, from being able to present themselves to public competitions. Well, unfortunately, this didn't go far, but I am glad that in this proposal that you have moved we have been able to come to an agreement to talk, precisely, about public contracts, because it is very important that when we talk about public contracts we also focus on those more precarious jobs. And, in effect, the work at home, the work of cures, are the most precarious jobs. And it is also important that this recognition in social security, and that, therefore, we establish these necessary mechanisms because this recognition is a gift. In addition, another element, which no one has ever talked about and which also seems essential and decisive to us: training in labour rights. Training in labour rights in the higher cycles, in the middle and upper cycles of professional training, so as to equip our workers and workers with major tools to face collective bargaining with major guarantees. Because the current labour regulations restrict this freedom of collective bargaining, they delimit them in excess of their labour rights. And, therefore, it is also important that we remember that this week, that so much has been said about the repeal of labour reform, that so much has been said about this conflict between PSOE and Podemos for the repeal of labour reform, I do not end up in pure technicality, in toast to the sun, or I do not end up, as I may end up, in which we will no longer talk about the repeal of labour reform, we will not talk about touching the transcendental, but we will end up touching what is not so much. And labour reform has to be repealed, it has to be completely repealed. We can't leave a live article, from that labor reform that came out of the PP, but neither can we leave open doors to that labor reform that 2010 also led the PSOE. And, in this sense, subcontracting is determining that we limit it. And, in this sense, it is essential that the labour authority recovers the prior administrative authority to deal with labour disputes. So this whole battle that we've seen in Madrid this week, I haven't been left in no place, which, unfortunately, looks like it's going to be there. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.174.0	And, after the block of defense of the papers, then has the word, to fix the position, the deputy Mr Pol Gibert, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.175.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Deputy Gallego, who presents this young man today... I have to tell you, Deputy Gallego, that I liked his intervention more today and the title of the young woman's motion itself. And I'll tell him why – I'll tell him why. Because you, in your intervention, have made reference to a subject that I think is interesting, that is the relationship between minimum wages and maximum wages in a company, a debate that has been going on for many years, isn't it? But your young lady doesn't refer to this subject. You, on your own motion, speak of a topall of maximum wages, for one band, and of the minimum wage of Catalan reference, for the other; you do not link one thing to the other. And this seems to me, therefore, that it is not the way to approach this debate, and, obviously, I will also explain it to you at the length of my intervention. But I left 'but before you made a point, because it seemed to me that from this Faristol there has been a manifest lack of respect for the Comú Pode group, and also at the side of the chamber, on behalf of a parliamentary group, to which they have said: «... so that you understand it. As if you... obviously don't have the intellectual level enough to hear what a Member was explaining, in this case, to the end bench. And it seems to me that in this Parliament we are all big enough, conscious and representing citizenship as if we could perfectly hear what is said by any person. And I'll never tell a deputy of VOX, and I don't think I should tell a deputy of Comú Pode, in this case. I also wanted to say that, with respect to what the honourable Member was commenting on, on the minimum wage of reference, I think there is a missing mention of this young man, let's say... because you said it in his intervention, and I like it very much, and I want to stress it, that this type of minimum wage has sometimes been achieved by mediating the social dialogue, which you obviously know firsthand, and I don't want to give it any lessons, in this sense, right? And I think we need this reference here. Because we try, therefore, to regulate, with a competence that we do not have from Catalonia, a minimum wage, and I do not think that is the right way to address this debate. I'd say there are other mechanisms. And today, for example, the interprofessional agreement of Catalonia, which is a mechanism to try, therefore, to boost this minimum wage or these minimum topalls, in this case, sectoral, too. And I've seen that it doesn't refer to this way, and it seems to me that it's the right way to address this type of debate. And, besides, I keep in mind that at present we still have a plan to renew it and it is also an important element that we can highlight in this young man, and that we can defend, too. You're also making a little reference to the salary structure of this country, because we have a little awareness of it, aren't we? And when I say this country, in this case, I will be forgiven, because I speak of Espanya; if they do not feel represented, I am sorry, but I do not think it varies very much. Fifty_percent of the citizens of Spain account for less than twenty_ thousand euros gross – fifty_percent. If we push up to seventy-five per cent... they charge less than thirty thousand euros gross per year. Only a five_per_cent charge more than six-thousand. And only a 0.5_per_cent charge more than 150,000_euros a year. This is what we are living in our country today. That's what people charge our country. And my question is: if there is an entrepreneur who pays a decent wage, who pays his taxes and who, obviously, therefore, respects all the working and legal conditions that are currently in place, it is complicated that we can tell him from this Parliament how much he has to pay to his directive. It's complicated, honestly, to say to him: "It's a law... Obviously, if there's a businessman who doesn't pay the bills they play, who doesn't pay taxes, and therefore doesn't complete a series of conditions, obviously, he has to punish himself, and he has to pay more taxes, surely, but not punish him with wages, which I think is not the right way. And also let's say, let's say, by previous experience in this Parliament, the theme of social clauses. I am a great advocate of applying, but I am also a great frustration with social clauses, because we have seen many times in this Parliament that many aspects of social clauses have been approved which cannot be applied afterwards, because the law does not allow us to do so. With which also this young man thinks he sins, if he sins in any sense, of an important voluntarism, that must be recognized, of trying to improve in many aspects, but also that many of these points know that they cannot be applied in the way they are currently written. And, therefore, we do not generate more frustration in a context, so it is already quite complicated for many workers who see precariousness in our country. And lastly, one of the points of the motion called... approval of a Catalan public contract law. This debate did not go far enough through Parliament, and we remember that it had a name similar to an "Aragonese law", which we then gave on this subject, didn't we? And listening to him, so he made me be careful, let's just say, about this, huh? Obviously, you're introducing a series of points, and you're already heading where this Aragonese 2.0 law has to go, as it will be, right? We'll be very careful to see if it develops. And obviously developing our group will be very loving as it can be, because we think it's very important that this is done carefully, and not as it has been before. But I did want to finish these thirty seconds that I'm left to recognize the work of the young man – it's been discussed in depth – which is obviously fighting inequality. Here you will find our group, and you will see it with the vote. It will find the support of our group in many of these aspects, but we do believe that the issue of minimum wage has to be addressed in a different way, and that the maximum topalls, in this case..., we do not agree, like Group Socialists. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.176.0	It's the turn, now, of the Popular Unity Candidacy. Mrs Eulàlia Reguant has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.177.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. I have to admit that, if we were based on the title and then on how the inquiry went, I was hoping for some point where Parliament would organize a trip to Cuba, which I already tell you that I haven't been there with you, but... [[Give me the applause.]] Let's keep it straight. [[Widow's remorse.]] But beyond that, if we look at the young lady, one thing... she was talking about economic action to fight the concentration of wealth and social inequalities, and reading the young woman is a little short, when we hear it, right? It's also short, we understand, where it goes and goes... If we see where it goes or how it defines the maximum wage, we understand that it's a little trick, say "maximum wage, because what it does is based on the salary of the rest, right? I mean, we don't have a topall on pay, but what we do is... a more proportional question. We would understand or share – and it seems more interesting to us – that we begin to put on the table the need for a maximum income linked to a universal basic income. That is, universal basic income, which is linked to a maximum income. That's to say, from a certain amount, you can't win any more. Or, if we don't go in this sense..., that is, a cent_percent tax, that we take the idea of what has already happened and has already been done to the United States – and I say the United States, not Cuba – in the 40th, 50th and 60th years, or to the Kingdom Unit, where the richest have marginal taxes between the North and the North-Three_percent. I'm not saying that it's from Communist countries, that to some it looks like they're the demon, right? That is to say, they raised it and it was applied for years to countries like the United States or the United Kingdom, countries"communists from many years ago, as everyone knows. And yes, maximum income is not just a tax recap, but it also has a redistributive aspect. Therefore, we understood that it could be interesting, if we are talking about fighting the concentration of wealth, that we are talking about redistribution. And, therefore, the maximum income as a redistribution tool, therefore, in the sense, yes, that the rich people are not so rich, because we do not want the poor people to be so poor, but it is not that we want some to accumulate over exorbitant amounts, and, so long as the rich people are not so rich. That's what the United States wanted, and that's what some of us want now and here. And also, when we speak of greater equality, we understand that it is obvious that for a greater equality to combat work inequalities, as the honourable Member has said, but that one sure way to generate greater equality is also to guarantee the material existence of the entire population, a condition for exercising freedom – the freedom that some people fill their mouths, but forget and that they lack public services. So..., guaranteeing the material existence of the entire population, and that goes through a universal basic income. That's why we say: the young lady doesn't seem too bad, but we think she's short, she's shy and she could have gone there, too. And from that, we decided that we wouldn't be presenting papers either. In some points we will vote yes, in others we will abstain. We understand that putting a debate here, like the famous law of public contract law, is to open a melo that requires expected debates, as we said at the time, about which public services we want, and, from here, therefore, which public contract we want, and that, therefore, previously to this law, that we are talking about public services. Therefore, in this point we will abstain, and in most of the remainder we will vote in favour. Finally..., to those who exclaim when some speak of expropriating, redistributing and that the rich are not so rich, I will remind them that at the beginning of the century a trial of the Supreme Court of the United States, Louis Brandeis, said: "We can have democracy or we can have wealth concentrated in a few hands, but we cannot hold both things. And that's why we need to talk about redistribution of wealth, to avoid taxing the abusive concentration of wealth and concentration in a few hands. And, above all, that..., republicanly, the great fortunes – that, by the logic of things, to its domain add the empire to its coexistence – are incompatible with the freedom of the great majority. And what it takes is to make policies to fight these excesses and abuses. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.178.0	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.179.0	Thank you, President. Very briefly. It has caused perplexity, not only in our group, the claim of Cuba as a model that was so joyfully made in the interpellation. I think it must be from those interpellations that we have..., there you have triumphed, you have to recognize it, because normally you look at one text, but if you were not present in plenary in the interpellation, then, it does not usually happen, but everyone started to see the video, because you said a few barbarities, with all due respect, that, I insist, provoked us, all, perplexity. And it is true that, after making a claim of Cuba as anything, then, in the end..., as Schuster said: "There is no need to say anything else. And perhaps we no longer had to say anything, but, out of parliamentary respect, I will simply say that the motion... ideological prejudices that have destroyed all the economies where they have been applied. The question of the maximum wage and its limitation is raised in a way that, in my view, is absolutely delusional. Criminalization of the entrepreneur and the entrepreneurial spirit, as if they were evil people who get up every morning to see how to destroy the workers' lives. I mean, there's a vision of the world absolutely... in the end, we can't share it. And, I insist, that is, virtually the whole motion for us is impossible to assume, except for some points for which I am already advancing that we request separate vote, which are those in which, without adding more expenditure or new administrative structures, they call for those mechanisms to be increased to ensure compliance with the law, which we think is right, which are points 3, 3.1, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4 – which are for those for whom we request separate vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.180.0	Thank you very much. So now, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word the deputy Joan Carles Moreno..., Gallego, who changed his surname.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.181.0	Okay. So said Vázquez Montalbán in a poem: « Useless to look so high heaven/ useless cosmonaut who doesn't know/ the name of the things that ignore him/ the color of the pain that doesn't kill him. / Useless cosmonaut who contemplates stars/ not to see the rats. I say this because, when I decided to come here to Parliament, I was told that, one way or another, I was already going to cry here, I was going to come here..., "I was crying to say that I was already going to assume the blackness of the reality that we are living to try to transform this reality, that it is the proposal that this motion has: to try to intervene, from the abilities that we have the public powers of Catalonia..., to intervene in the labor market to combat some – not all, some – of the elements that generate work inequality, that end up generating social inequality. Because we don't have enough to redistribute wealth, but to intervene where wealth is generated, which is on the labour market, where there are inequalities and social injustices. And that was on purpose. I'm not worried that they say they're Communist or Cuban proposals. That's not the problem. The problem is if we want there to be no unfair and scandalous wage fan that is not justified by the contribution to wealth creation to anyone. A wage rate that guarantees that everyone can live with dignity, absolutely everyone, and that the wage rate between the company's average wage and the maximum wage is socially acceptable. That's why we're talking about social concertation to determine it. But that's why we're talking about the Public Administration being a copy of it at the time they do it at their businesses and at the time they're demanding that they work for the Public Administration. But we do not limit ourselves to the issue of wages, which is important; we also want the Catalan Public Administration..., that the Catalan public authorities intervene in the contracting of the collections that are today in a more precarious situation on the labour market. We're talking about who uses digital plataforms to pre-characterize, when they can be rich, just, free. We are talking about working women in the home and in the care sector, who are being expelled from their labor rights, because we have many difficulties in contracting them legally. And here the Public Administration..., the public authorities can help, and it's a matter of helping, that helps to dignify the work of everyone: of the workers of the world, of the workers of the riders who work for digital platforms..., but also that they intervene because the enterprises that work for the public are exemplary in the social justice of the wage sales – maximum wages and minimum wages – and, obviously, with temporality, instability and other issues. All right, all right, Thank you. I vote. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.182.0	All right. So, over with the debate, is there any more separate petition for this point? [[Pause.]] Mr. Gallego...? Is that right, Mr. Garcia? Did you ask for the word, Mr. Garcia? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Garriga. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.183.0	Yes, in order to ask for a separate vote on points 4.1, 4.2 and 5.3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.184.0	4.1, 4.2 and 5.3. [[Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Martín Blanco?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.185.0	To ask for separate vote on points 1, 1.1, 1.2, 2.1 and 2.2, which can be voted jointly...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.186.0	One moment. He said point one...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.187.0	1, 1.1, 1.2, 2.1 and 2.2, which can be voted on jointly...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.188.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.189.0	...and also 2, 4.4 and 5.2, which can also be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.190.0	Okay. [[Eulàlia Regant and Cure ask to speak.]] Mrs. Regant...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.191.0	Vote separate from points 1.2, all 2 and 3.2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.192.0	Okay. [[Raúl Moreno Montaña asks to speak.]] Mr. Moreno...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.193.0	Separate vote on points 1, 1.1, 1.3 and 2.1, which may be grouped together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.194.0	1, 1.1, 1.3 and 2 points...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.195.0	2.1.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.196.0	2.1. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] Okay. So let's proceed... [[Mònica Sales de la Cruz asks to speak.]] Oh, Mrs. Sales... - Oh, we're not done. But don't worry: if it's the last point, we'll have to vote separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.197.0	Ah, it was because... Deputy Munell said that in his intervention, but we needed point one separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-04-1603.198.0	Point 1. Okay. No, but it's that between the votes that I've been asked to vote here and those that have already arrived, the last thing I have to do is vote separately. So, that's why... So we proceed to the vote on points 17 to 23 of the agenda. I have separate voting petitions and I'm going to announce them to each of the motions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into public safety and the Police of the Generalitat - Mossos d'Esquadra (continuation)]] [[302-00042/13]] Let's start with motion number 17, following the question to the government about public safety and the police of the Generalitat - Mossos d'Esquadra. We're voting point number one. The vote begins. The first point was approved, with 125 votes in favour and 9 votes against. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2 has been approved, with 134 votes in favour. We now vote on points 3 and 4. The vote begins. Points 3 and 4 were approved, with 124 votes in favour and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved, with 117 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting now for the letter to. The vote begins. This apartment was approved, with 106 votes in favour and 28 abstentions. We're voting on letter b now. The vote begins. This apartment was approved, with 82 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 50 abstentions. We're voting now on letter c. The vote begins. This apartment was approved, with 117 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting now for the letter d. The vote begins. This apartment was approved, with 111 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting now for the letter and. The vote begins. This apartment was approved, with 119 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 6 abstentions. And, finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points were approved, with 134 votes in favour. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into T-Mobility (cont'd)]] [[302-00043/13]] We now vote on motion 18, following the Government's inquiry into T-Mobility. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 125 votes in favour and 9 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man's points now. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved, with 134 votes in favour. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the state of the Administration of Justice (continuation)]] [[302-00044/13]] We now vote on motion 19, which follows the Government's inquiry into the state of the Administration of Justice. We're voting point number one. The vote begins. That point hasn't been approved. He got 60 votes in favour, 74 votes against. We're voting points 2 and 15. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 123 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. We now vote on points 5, 7, 8, 9 and 12. The vote begins. These points have been approved, with 68 votes in favour, 65 votes against and one person who does not vote. We're voting now on the 6-a point. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 69 votes in favour and 65 votes against. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 70 votes in favour and 64 votes against. We're voting point number 11 now. The vote begins. Point 11 was approved, with 123 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. We're voting points 16, 18 and 19. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 125 votes in favour and 9 votes against. We're voting point number 14 now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 69 votes in favour and 65 abstentions. We're voting point 20 now. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 60 votes in favour and 74 votes against. And now we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved, with 134 votes in favour. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the management of agrarian spaces (continuation)]] [[302-00045/13]] Let's vote for motion number 20, the motion following the question to the Government about the management of the agrarian spaces. We will vote on the definite text of the motion, with the two transactional elements incorporated, and there is no separate motion for a vote. Therefore, the vote begins. The motion was adopted, with 83 votes in favour and 51 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the school in Catalonia (continuation)]] [[302-00046/13]] We will now vote on motion 21, following the question to the Government about school in Catalonia. We start by voting points 2, 2a and 5. The vote begins. These points were not approved, with 20 votes in favour and 114 votes against. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3 has also not been approved, with 52 votes in favour and 82 votes against. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 19 votes in favour and 115 votes against. And now we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points have also not been approved, with 52 votes in favour and 82 votes against. [[Motion following the question to the Government on the situation of Afghanistan and the role of the Generality in the gathering of refugees and respect for human rights (continuation)]] [[302-00047/13]] We now vote on the motion following the question to the Government about the situation of Afghanistan and the role of the Generality in the gathering of refugees and respect for human rights, motion number 22. We will now vote on points 1.a, 1.b and 1.e. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 82 votes in favour, 46 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting points 1. and 1.f now. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 82 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 39 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2 has been approved, with 115 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 6 abstentions. We now vote on the heading of point 3 – point 3a, 3.b and 3.c. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 82 votes in favour, 46 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting now for point 3.g. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 83 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 38 abstentions. [[Some applause.]] We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has obtained 121 votes in favour and 13 votes against. We're voting for the rest of the young man's points now. The vote begins. The remaining points were approved, with 115 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 6 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into economic action to combat concentration of wealth and social inequalities (continuation)]] [[302-00048/13]] Perfect. We begin to vote on item 23 of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on economic action to combat concentration of wealth and social inequalities. We're voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1 was not approved: it received 16 votes in favour, 51 against and 67 abstentions. We're voting point 1.1 now. The vote begins. Point 1.1 was approved, with 82 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 33 abstentions. We're voting point 1.2 now. The vote begins. Point 1.2 was approved, with 107 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting point 1.3 now. The vote begins. Point 1.3 was approved, with 87 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 33 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2 was approved, with 106 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 15 abstentions. We're voting point 2.1 now. The vote begins. Point 2.1_was approved, with 73 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 42 abstentions. We're voting point 2.2 now. The vote begins. Point 2.2 was approved, with 106 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point 2.3 now. The vote begins. Point 2.3_was approved, with 112 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved, with 123 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting point 3.1 now. The vote begins. Point 3.1_was approved, with 123 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting point 3.2 now. The vote begins. Point 3.2 was approved, with 112 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved, with 122 votes in favour, 11 votes against and one person who does not vote. We're voting now on point 4.1. The vote begins. Point 4.1_is approved, with 133 votes in favour and one person who does not vote. We're voting point 4.2 now. The vote begins. Point 4.2 was approved, with 134 votes in favour. We're voting point 4.3 now. The vote begins. Point 4.3 was approved, with 123 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting point 4.4 now. The vote begins. Point 4.4 was approved, with 116 votes in favour, 16 abstentions and one person who did not vote. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved, with 121 votes in favour and 13 votes against. We're voting point 5.1 now. The vote begins. The 5.1_point was approved, with 121 votes in favour and 13 votes against. We're voting point 5.2 now. The vote begins. Point 5.2_was approved, with 115 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 6 abstentions. And finally, we vote on point 5.3. The vote begins. Point 5.3_is approved, with 132 votes in favour and 2 votes against. Let's raise the session.
