ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-28-1201.1.0	Very nice late. Let's start a new session with the general policy debate, where in other countries it is called "the debate on the state of the nation, and which should establish the master lines of government action for this course. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Unfortunately, before I begin the order of the day, I must communicate the three nine victims of general rape. According to the official data of the Department of Interior, on July 30th Antonella Abigail was murdered, in Sant Vicenç de Castellet, and Pamela, in the locality of Cambrils, and on September 3rd, in Vilafranca del Penedès, Maria Rosa died. Let's remember that we don't give her a name for a data protection issue and to protect her infants. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn these crimes, and I reiterate Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women and to age for its record. In accordance with the Protocol of Dol of the Parliament of Catalonia against Masclist Violence, approved by the Working Group on Gender Equity, this presidency calls a minute of silence, this late, at the time of the suspension of the session, before the facade of the Palau del Parlament, where all the workers of the chamber who wish to do so can be added. So, I'd like to point out that this week is a full ninety-year anniversary of the achievement of the women's vote. Today's ninety years ago, a fact so normal that women have right to vote remained out of the law. This tape serves us as a reminder that there are things that are illegal and impossible until they are possible. This is the Parliament with the most women in history, and this must hope to continue working to achieve real and effective equality between men and women, which today continues to feel a pending assignment. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] I also inform you that, as a compliment to what is established by the Movement 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of the year 2021 there are a total of 1,394 victims dead and missing in the Mediterranean. And, finally, on September 26th was celebrated the International Day for the Total Elimination of Nuclear Weapons, which commemorates every year the United Nations. They follow the long tradition of this Parliament in favour of the culture of the pau and the peaceful resolution of conflicts, carried to all groups of this chamber the finding that I had with the Catalan Foundation for the Pau, FundiPau, where I was made the campaign that is taking place so that from Catalonia the State is required to join the treatise on the prohibition of nuclear weapons, which is in force since the 22nd generation of 2021. So, I'm extending this petition to all groups. We have, in accordance with the agreement of the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen on the celebration, yet, in reduced format of the plenary sessions, at the same time as the current circumstances of the covid's pandemic-19..., the guess is that sixty-four Members have delegated their vote for this plenary session. [[Discussion on the general political orientation of the Government]] [[255-00002/13]] And, without further ado, let's start the only point, from this session, of the order of the day, with the general government policy debate. This debate will be governed by Articles 154 and 155 of the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the sequence adopted for the Board of Spokespersons. Therefore, in the first place is the very honorable President of the Generality, Mr Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-28-1201.2.0	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Counselors and advisors, vice president, deputies and deputies, and everyone who is following this debate, very late at all. Catalonia needs the tools of a state to guarantee social cohesion, to guarantee economic prosperity and the defence of the interests of this society in a global world. For these reasons I'm an independentist, because we can only guarantee it with independence. I presented myself to the investiture with an unequivocal double commitment: to complete the independence of Catalonia and to start a new stage of transformation and change for our country. These are my objectives, the objectives of the government that I preside over and those that reflect a majority of the electorate present in this chamber. And today I can affirm to them with all the roundness that the transformation of the country I promised in the investment debate and in the constitution of the new government is already on the march; the change and transformation to Catalonia have already begun. We are at a new stage in our history as a country. The new Generalitat has begun to lay the foundations for the transformation and the sacking that the country needs in all spheres. We have restarted the negotiation process between the Spanish State and Catalonia; a historic opportunity that we need to take advantage of. And we have laid the foundations to drive a exit to the crisis that I did not leave behind, and to transform the economic system to generate well-being and prosperity for everyone, with only one objective: to improve the life of the citizenry. The transformation to Catalonia, as I said, has already begun. And this is one of the central ideas I want to convey in this general policy debate of the new government and of this presidency of the Generality. Therefore, in this intervention, in the first place, I will explain some of the transformation actions that we have already been implementing as a government; later, I will address how I believe we have to address the resolution of the historical political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State, and finally I will expose the master lines of the new Generality's legislature, which intend to respond to the objective of the four transformations that the country needs: social transformation, green transformation, feminist transformation and democratic transformation. In short, I will expose them as this government always works with a double objective that is indestriable: national freedom, national liberation, which is the culmination of Catalonia's independence, and progress and struggle to improve the quality of life of Catalans and Catalans, the best of the everyday life of the common people. That's our goal. I would like to give you three examples, three examples that respond to three decisions that are already beginning to be implemented. The first example. In the investment debate I committed myself to promoting free education from zero to three years. So start implementing it now. From the very course, the last course of the school bressol, which we call the P2, will be free. This will be the first phase of the free access process to Bressol school, which must allow us to advance towards equity in access to education, make a leap forward in equal opportunities and build it from the principles of life, from childhood. In the second place, therefore, we will present in the premises of Parliament..., therefore, before the presentation of the premises to Parliament, therefore, during the month of October, the Government will approve the new law on renewable energies that will allow us to make a leap forward, a just transition, consensually territorial, that is also ambitious, and with social and public participation. We will present the draft law of assumptions that the Councillor of Economy and History is working on, and that will allow – and this is the third example that he would like to put on the table – that together with the resources planned for the year 2022 from the mechanism of recovery and resilience and the React..., will allow an increase of more than 3,500_million euros respect to the later approved assumption. So, let's start the zero-three gratuity, push for a just energy transition and agree with the territory, and some assumptions that aim at mobilising an additional 3,500_million euros in respect of the last approved assumption, thus enclosing the React fund and the recovery and resilience mechanism. Therefore, we are here, we are in Parliament, we participate politically to improve the living conditions of the people; to improve the quality of life of the citizenry; to build a better country that guarantees equal opportunities and a future worthy of everyone; for public services of excellence that can respond at hard times like the present, and we are also here to build a future and a society that is more equal, advanced and that respects the surroundings. We want Catalonia to be a state of reference to the world. We want to become the republic of blessing and progress of reference in southern Europe. And we know that these objects in the Spanish State cannot be achieved. And that's exactly why we're independent. We want the independence of Catalonia because we know that it is the only way to build a better, fairer, more freer, more forthcoming country that is the best tool to help improve the living conditions of the people of this country. Because in the Spanish State, Catalans and Catalans do not have this future of prosperity and freedom, and, unfortunately, we see it every day. And we also found out last week with the arrest of President Puigdemont. We want independence to make life easier for citizens, because everyone has more and better quality of life, more opportunities and more enjoyment. And precisely, for this reason, because we want independence for these objectives, we have the obligation to start this transformation from now on, conscious of the administrative limits and competitions that we have, also financed, but above all showing all the ambition to have the tools that any State has to put them to the service of the best of the life of the citizenry. We cannot give up the most useful instrument for the citizens of Catalonia. Today, independence is the most transformative and ambitious political element in Catalonia and I would say that it is also a good part of today's Europe, the main revulsion. And we have to prove it every day, too. The state is a frenzy, we know, but we can't be excused to paralyze everything. We work, therefore, to gain independence and improve the life of the citizenry. One thing you haven't felt without the other. This is the twofold objective of moving this independentist and progressive government, two cares of the same currency: national freedom and social progress. These past few weeks have felt me talking about this idea of transformation. We are before a process of transformation and change in our economy and society that, if we make a historical comparison, we would have to pay for the industrial revolution to see it in a similar size. It is a process of profound transformation, on a global scale, that we can only compare with steps of the past, with great past revolutions. This transformation that we are already living is dominated by the digital world, by the customization of the servers, thanks to the massive use of data and also for the new technologies; also for the changes caused by the climate crisis, but also for the demographic change that the better of salvation and, therefore, the widening of life expectancy and the aging of the population cause. The accelerated technological revolution and the need to fight climate change are changing the forms of our society to produce, distribute and consume. We are also seeing a fundamental change in the globalization of services; also those services that configure our cultural brand of reference, as in the case of audio-visual plataforms. Some changes that have to make us transform like society. It is an opportunity; it must be and we must turn it into an opportunity to generate more equity and more equal opportunities, to create more shared prosperity and benefit for everyone. They are changes that we must move on to govern, that we must not let ourselves be watered down by inertia, but the way to govern them is to put collective intervention through public policies that strengthen the welfare state. It is essential, therefore, to bear in mind that we are in a moment of change of great transformation, which has accelerated with the outbreak of the global pandemic. Catalonia must also be the protagonist of this revolution. They can't go to the trailer. We can't afford to do things like they've always been. We have to have the right and the right to question ourselves - that's all. In this sense, the new way of governing is fundamental. We want to make it agile, effective, pro-disruptive, able to put all the talent of the country at the service of the city council and we are modernizing the institution and we have to tackle all our unconformity with the will of transformation, defuguent it routine and easy management. Therefore, we have to do it differently and above all we have to get out of the top, all of them, the inertial veils. In this sense, I always like to remind myself that I have asked my government and also the closest team that there are phrases that need to be deleted. "It's always done this, it gets wiped out. He doesn't like the answer in front of the reptes have to be deleted by default. We need to get rid of the excuses and we need to focus on opportunities and innovation, not difficulties. We represent, therefore, many more than we are here, a majority of whom we are here, a new generation. For the first time in many years, there are no cares of the generality, and this is known. We won't do the usual. We come to make profound changes, to change insecurities. It doesn't change one day for the other many of the changes we want to push are not easy and they will have resistance, but we come here to change things. We know what we need to do and where we need to go. Citizenship also trusted us for this, because a new generation represents those who have always had fewer opportunities to lead institutions and boost the changes that the country needs, that the government works for the sentient country, for the sentient Catalonia. A government for the people and with the people, which transmits an innovative, transformative and also possible taranna. We're here to make things happen. We can't take refuge in excuses and difficulties. The pandemic, in some sectors, has forced this innovation, the acceleration of processes, and has made us realize that it is often said that it was not possible that it was. So we have to keep doing it. And I would also like to make a prec, especially in this general policy debate. Let us abandon the sterilistic gestures, the rift, the polemics concerned, the tactics, the conservatism combined with that phrase of the passing of the page, the policy of short flight and that we work together from the consensus, because this country can pull forward. I call on us, therefore, to rebel against the inertias, the inertias that stop us, the inertias of an economic system that lead us to compete with low wages, we have to rebel; the inertias of old development, we have to rebel; the inertias of the comfortable politics of those who never question them, we have to rebel; the inertias that can lead us to a distasteful future if we are not valiant to change. And I said it in the investment debate: Republican values will mark and I think they are marking the new stage of the Catalonian Generality. We start from a common idea of birth and of the conviction that we are and must continue to be a people's sun. All and every one of the government's policies respond to these republican ideals; to the basic principles of freedom, equality, fraternity, together with ecology, feminism, pacifism, cultural diversity and Europeanism and, above all, with the will to be useful to the citizenry. The new Generality has to become the main tool for building a community, a social community and a political community, building and progress, building and social cohesion. It has to be raised as the main search tool for the common good. And that's what I think, with all the modesty, has begun to pass. So I'm going to take a short nap on the girls' tasks from the government's constitution. Catalonia is the territory that has given the most direct aid to the affected sectors during the pandemic, to the affected economic sectors. As soon as the new government got out of the way, they started implementing measures for the social rescue. The first of these was the plan of action with active policies of occupation, which presupposes the most ambitious plan that the Government of Catalonia has ever promoted to combat the atur, with more than 900_million euros, in fact, 917_millions to promote the contracting and formation of the collectivities that have suffered more intensely from the economic effects of the covid-19. In order to respond to the immediate effects of the crisis, we have increased the subsidy for guaranteed citizenship income by 2021 to a total of EUR 430_million, 140 more than the previous year, and we have thus ensured the arrival of guaranteed citizenship income to those family units that require the most support. In this sense, we have also created the Pla Pilot Office to implement the Universal Basic Income in these days. And we've started other changes that are the first stone of profound transformations. We've started a plan to feminize both the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad And we have transferred the legal services from the Department of Interior to the central services. The objective is to defend more and better all public servants and, at a time, to work with the same criteria and proportionality. In housing policies, we have expanded the Reallotgem programme with the aim of abolishing the impending denunciations, offering a contract to the owner to hold the families in their housing, and we have allocated an additional 20_million euros. And it is clear that the pandemic of which I collide-19 has made social inequalities worse. Our responsibility is to fight these inequalities so that no one stays in this path to economic recovery, to work to help the sectors most affected by the pandemic and, at the same time, to transform Catalonia's production model. This is why we have continued to help businesses and local authorities affected by the crisis in Covid-19. At June we opened a first call for access to extraordinary direct aid for business solvency, a line of EUR 993 million for the payment of debts of self-employed professionals and businesses affected by the covid. And during the month of July a second call was opened, after having granted with the social agents, in the framework of the Council of Social Dialogue, to extend the line of help to all sectors of activity affected by the crisis. At the end of July we have already made the payment of EUR 431 million to 16,490 Solvency Fund applicants from the first line of solvency aid for businesses and self-employed people. The Department of Enterprise and Labour also paid, at the end of August, EUR 10_million to the line of aid at night, which was opened in response to the health restrictions which came into force on 9 July and which required the closure of internal spaces, as well as the payment of almost EUR 61_million to a total of 90,285 people, 90,285 workers and workers who requested economic aid for persons on temporary employment or with a discontinuous fixed contract. I would also like to recall that, in these weeks when the new republican government began to walk, we have set aside the National Pact for Industry 2022-2025. We are starting to work on this platform that has the objective that industry is making the leap forward in competitiveness that it needs and allows the sector to face the great challenges of sustainability and digitalisation, which are the transformational and changing blocks of the economy that will come. We have also pushed the law of science, which must allow us to put research at the centre of our policies and make it one of the pillars of the new country. These are just a few of the measures that have taken place in the first hundred days of the new Generality, exceeding by far the compromise of 700_million euros worth of shock measures I acquired in the investiture debate – we went further there. But we have also faced repression, we have faced the million-dollar bonds that the Court of Auditors wants to impose as a win against a whole series of political leaders and senior officials of the Generality for having worked honestly for the objectives of the Government of the Generality's external action. We created a specific fund to cover the finances of other utilities and public workers, to guarantee and protect the right to compensation and to the rights of all public servers and public servers. And now let me make an incision about the pandemic, about the pandemic management of these past weeks. We have to say and we have to recognize that the iniquitous of this legislature, especially the iniquitous of the government in this sense has not been pleased and has not been as we would have liked. As we worked to regain the strength of the institution, after many months of interinternship provoked by the repression of the State, and laid the foundations of the transformation, we faced a new wave of the covid, in concrete terms, of the quinta, an wave that was different from the previous ones, in which the infections grew exponentially. They affected above all the younger population sectors, which were the percentages that were less vaccinated, and they greatly strained the primary care of our health care system and also hospitals. Vaccination, though, we have to say, has been the great barrier of defense before this five-year-old. Its effectiveness has directly impacted on the resistance to infection, the worsening of the disease and, fortunately, also in the name of dead people. This shows us the effectiveness of the cows. But today we also have a great challenge, and it is essential to increase the percentage of people vaccinated from the Catalan and Catalan stripes we have... less than thirty-nine and more than twelve years old. I would like to address the young people of our country directly: if you don't want to do it for yourself, if you don't want to vaccinate for yourself, do it for your avia, do it for your peers, for your Germans or for your friends. This isn't about protecting one, it's about protecting all of us. If one thing we're after this pandemic is that if we're not all protected, we won't be collectively protected. The exit will be collective or not. The battle against covid-19 will only win it if all the citizenry makes an act of responsibility and generosity and decides to immunize itself, protect itself to protect all of us. And it's also true that we've made mistakes. We must recognize that we were still hoping for a better response in the vaccination forecasts, especially during August. This has made it available to more cows than they have been able to inoculate, but it will not happen again. Let's learn and correct when we need to. We also recognized that the five-year-old had taken us for the counter. It's not expected in any of the models that we'd experience a contagious explosion entering the estuary. And we recognize that if we had had these data before it finally happened, if we had known before the various deltas had, therefore, this potential for such high infection, we had taken other measures and kept some restrictive measures that had risen weeks earlier. Then, I want to remind you that the pandemic incidence data was very good. By mid-June, there were fewer than five hundred hospitals across the country, of which just a hundred and fifty were in intensive care units. The risk of resurgence had been on an ugly scale for a hundred days. The number of deaths recorded those days was the lowest since the pandemic came, and the vaccination had taken on the speed of creating, advancing at a very good rate, thanks to the efforts of the Health Department and the health system's joint. The people's response was excellent; they came to vaccinate more than a hundred and a thousand people a day at the highest points, and the number of cows that came to them was very large. With this scener we found ourselves just beginning the month of July with the quinta onada. He forced us to live another summer with important restrictions, such as the night confinements, which affected the municipalities with a high incidence. We're going to have to take steps back, like recommending the use of the mask at all times, also outside, or re-declaring the shutdown of the night oci sector. But this country has done it again. We're back to getting over a new one. The situation today – and I think we have to thank the public health system for its effort – is that it has fallen to 464 patients admitted, of whom 100_seventy are in critical beds. The risk of rebound was 58; the Rt is 0.90, and the percentage of positive PCRs is 2.12_per_cent. All of them are on the right track; they allow us to continue to descalate the preventive measures that we have adopted. But we have to move forward with caution. The pandemic isn't over, and there's no one who's ruling out an on-the-spot. We will work so that we do not pass, we will work for the full recovery of all sectors of economic activity, social activity and cultural activity. That is why, before the best of the epidemiological situation in Catalonia, last week we proposed to open the night oci outdoors until three o'clock in the morning, thirty minutes later to close. We expanded the schedule of the restoration until one in the morning, keeping the outcropping of two people outside and inside. And there's also the timing, in the next few weeks– let's hope that it can be very soon, meaning that the epidemiological impact data accompany –, that we can open the night oci in inner spaces, always using the covid certificate when the epidemiological situation so, I demanded. Also just two weeks ago we started a new school year, an atypical school year, like the past, in a context of pandemic in which teachers and teachers have made a great effort, together with families, to keep schools open. The educational community has taught us that with will, ability, commitment, compromise, the most complex situations can be overcome in an exemplary way. I want to get our most sincere thanks to the whole educational community from here. And we can't close this information on the pandemic without making a recognition and thanks to the health system professionals, Counsellor Argimon, and to all the staff of other areas – clean, clean – that have allowed us to fight as we have done against this cruel pandemic. Thank you all very much. As I said, beyond the management of these hundred days, I also want to address the need for recovery and the transformation of the country's economic model. We want to transform Catalonia's production model. We have an opportunity to make use of the resources coming from the European Foundations Next Generation, a foundation that makes available the European Union to facilitate post-pandemic economic recovery and that with the country we need to know how to make the most of it. As an example we are driving the Valley of the Hydrogen of Catalonia, which currently counts with thirteen mature projects for industrial uses and renewable hydrogen mobility and thirty R+D+I projects. In total, we work to achieve an investment, generate an investment of more than 1,300_million euros, a reduction in CO2 emissions of more than 325,000_tonnes per year. This is a strategic initiative to tackle climate change and to activate key economic sectors of the country that need to have continuity of the future such as the chemical sector. The transformation of the automotive industry and the entire value chain associated with it will also be seen, with the progressive abandonment of the manufacturing of the combustion engine vehicles and the replacement for the electric vehicle. This change will mean a transformation of an economic sector that represents the deu_per_cent of Catalonia's gross domestic product, more than 200,000 places of work between direct and indirect. And, therefore, from the Government of Catalonia we are completely compromised in the Next Generation projects linked to the electric vehicle to deal with guarantees this change that is absolutely disruptive, from the field of training to the technological transfer, such as the changes that will see the manufacturing industries of components and all repair services, the maintenance of the vehicles that we have in our barrels and in our towns. Later weeks some companies have also had to modify their production due to the lack of semiconductors and microxips. Dependence on the Chinese origin, Taiwan and South Korea has affected our productive capacity, and that is why strategic projects shared with the European Union are also taking place, and Catalonia has them at its fingertips. This is why the European xip project led by the Barcelona Supercomputing Center is also being promoted, which wants to be our contribution to the challenge of European digital sovereignty. The project seeks to create a local ecosystem for developing high-capacity and low-consumption xips, taking advantage of the R & D texture already existing in the field of microelectronics and computer architecture. The objective is to achieve, in order to start this path, a reversal of about 400_million euros. In July we created, in relation to the European Foundations Next Generation, the commissions that will coordinate the capture, the impulse and the execution of the Catalan projects financed with these foundations. For a band, the interdepartmental commission, which will plan, prioritize and follow up projects; and the technical commission, which assists and directs it in the economic recovery strategy in the framework of these foundations, take as reference the Pla for economic recovery and social protection in the report Next Generation Catalonia. These bodies complement and assist in the management and coordination of European funds, which it collects from the Secretariat of Economic Affairs and European Funds of the Department of Economics and History. The Generality, therefore, is prepared to rebre 'lsi to manage them. We have experience, we have skills and we know the country as no one, basic principles of subsidiarity. For this reason, it is essential that the Government of Catalonia be the one who directly manages the share of the funds that correspond. We have all the transformative ambition to know where to direct these investments so that they actually have a transformative and multiplier effect. From the Government of Catalonia, from the Generality, we continue to demand a real role in the direction, management and consolidation of European foundations, especially the Next Generation, and we have to say that the Spanish Government is far from this path. He has pulled for the right to present to the European Commission a recovery plan that rips off the Government of Catalonia and the rest of the governments like ours. In fact, in the plans he presented to Brussels, not even the rest of the governments with the skills to manage these resources were left out. Therefore, the Spanish Government clearly escapes the co-management of European foundations. Considering the Generality as a management and not letting me participate in the government of these funds, I think it's a big mistake. Ignoring the view of the administrations most suited to the needs of the citizenry and the product fabric, the Spanish Government was undermining our institutions and the interests of our citizenry. Take this rest to the beginning of the new government and to the work done with the will to transform these first months, so let's talk about how I think we need to move forward in the goal of independence in Catalonia, in the goal of national liberation. They know that I submitted my candidacy to the presidency with a very clear compromise: to make possible the culmination of Catalonia's independence. And that's it. This is my main objective, it is the main objective of the whole government, and it is an absolutely inseparable objective, as you all know, of the struggle for progress, social justice and the better of the life of all citizens. There's nothing more we can do to work because our children and our girls are living in a fairer, greener, more feminist, and freer republic. There's nothing more about our political commitment, there's nothing more about my political commitment to leave my daughter's generation a better country to live. I want us to follow the next generation of Catalans and Catalans who are suffering from repression, espousal and the smallest of the Spanish State. And I'll work, we'll work, the government, like nobody else because it's like that. And I know that today, with the correlation of forces and conditions in which we find ourselves, there is only one winning strategy to achieve it, that it is to force a negotiation with the Spanish State and at the same time continue to work to be each time stronger. Add, add and add more independenceists to be truly unstoppable. To be independent, we need international recognition. And it is precisely the international community that also encourages us to start this negotiation process. I've heard a lot of independent leaders say they're skeptical of the results of this negotiation process with the Spanish state. And it's logical. We know the state perfectly, not just the government. We know the State. We know the story, and we also know who we have in front of us. They can't be naive, and in the ho sound. If we confided in it, we certainly wouldn't even be independent – and, in fact, some independenceist sounds since we were politically right. Now, it will also be noted once that we look up to understand that achieving this objective is complex, it is very complex, and that, therefore, the strategy to achieve it will also be, that there is no right or magic solution, but there is all the will, all the determination and all the attitude of victory. Skepticism, as I said, is absolutely justified. In fact, I would say that we are obliged to be skeptical from an intellectual perspective, but also from a political perspective. But once we are skeptical, we must be demanding and we are also obliged to work with all determination, all the joy and all the social strength that we have at our side in this attempt. A bet of these characteristics has to be done with all this because, among other things, if the State does not take advantage of the opportunity of this negotiation process, it can end up showing the eyes of those who look from the outside, this process, but also those who look from the inside, who really do not have the will to make a political solution proposal for Catalonia. We have assured the Government of the State to negotiate the resolution of the political conflict over the independence of Catalonia and this was never achieved. That we are still ambitious and therefore cannot take advantage of any opportunity. Neither is this one. It is a bet that we need to do with all conviction and with all the unit of action, the maximum unit of action, because we really have a lot more strength than we think, and because if we are able to pull out our targets, such as amnesty and self-determination, we will get to protect all the reprisals and we will see the city of Catalonia because we decide its future, which is what we want. The strategy of the negotiation unites the Catalan society. The Catalan delegation, represented by the Government at the Bureau, represents the entire society because it represents the institution and leads to great country consensus. And to bear in mind that the result will also have to count with the approval of all the Catalan people, because the proposal that comes out of the table will have to be referred for citizenship. And here everyone is questioned, independent and non-independent. And in the event that the State does not take it seriously, or is not able to control its apparatus and continue the persecution against the independence movement, the more reason and the more force we accumulate vis-à-vis the international community, both in political terms and in judicial and reputational terms of the State. The negotiation process that we have started will not be easy or fast. These types of negotiations are extremely complex; they require perseverance, learning, unity and much, much social strength. Everything we do from the Catalan delegation must always be designed to strengthen its position; the opposite would be to weaken Catalonia in one of the most complex situations we have to face. And no one can contribute to affluence Catalonia with its actions, consciously or unconsciously. I won't do it. And at this point I'd like to make a little incis, too. It's not a dialog table, as long as you go to talk or chat. It's a negotiating table for a political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State. Sometimes the term "dialeg" is used to undermine this process, not to give it value, to try not to compromise the position of the state government. And I think that's out of interest, not conviction. The dialog may be a phase of the process, but what it is about is to start a real negotiation process, and so let's not miss what we have achieved: to bring the Government of the State to a negotiation table; to begin to address the political conflict from mutual recognition to political subjects. It is a victory in itself, because it is the explicit recognition, in the eyes of the whole world, of the existence of a political conflict and expresses the willingness of the parties to give it a democratic solution. Let us not deny it; we are still aware of the complexity, but let us not deny it. The fish of the games has changed. The country is certain, therefore, that it has changed, but the objective remains; the objective is the same. We have a lot of work to do, we face one of the most important and decisive processes for our country and our history. And here there is no one: there is no one, no one. In fact, I have the firm commitment to work because each time I am more people, more sectors of our society and more political forces that accompany us on this path. As I said, we are very aware that it will not be quick or easy, but at times I grow sincerely and honestly that it is the best alternative we have at our hands, and we also know what is the tempt of the State Government: to look to sleep the independence process; to play with division, and make the smallest possible concessions; to try to fall asleep, to try to divide us to make the smallest possible concessions. Therefore, the answer is clear: more conviction than ever, more unity than ever to achieve the most ambitious goals than ever. Worse still: it can be the state's tempest to publicly diverge with proposals that are not working in the negotiation and that intend to get the focus of the political conflict, and we have not had experiences very much. But we also know where our strength is: in the unit of action of the sovereignism, in the civic mobilization persisting and also in the arithmetic, in the dependence of the Government of the State on the independence votes at the Congress of Deputies. In this sense, we have much more strength than some would want and, therefore, we cannot give up using it. We must work tirelessly to achieve results, and that is why we must strengthen that alliance that has made us powerful over the years, between institutions, parties, civil society and citizens, which must enable us to take the initiative in negotiations and make our objectives inevitable. In this line, it is necessary to establish the bases of the National Agreement for Amnesty and Self-Determination, an agreement which must be widely used, which must reinforce the Catalan proposal at the negotiating table with the State, based on defence, on the part of a large majority of the Catalan society of amnesty such as repression and self-determination referendum in order to resolve the political conflict. Because the natural nature of the conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State is a natural political one, every time it has entered, it has done so for the entry of the judicial route and for the entry of repression as a response to the will of freedom of Catalan society. This negotiation process is going to be critical, and it's going to come from a lot of bands. A lot of people will want to derail them, for a lot of reasons. I want the extreme right of Spain; or I want the deep state of Spain; I want sections of the Socialist Party. And there are also people in Catalonia who may want to. We need to be aware and we can't fall for paranys. The state-trading train is about to take off. A few days ago, we took over the process, now it's time to go deeper. We were going to work on the methodology and now we're going to start our own negotiation. Probably, and in the most opportune way, at the moment, discreetly, but it's time to park the positions aside, tacticalism, and jump to the train. It is time to build strength and strengthen, from within and from outside, the negotiating table, the positions of the delegation of the Generality, of the delegation of Catalonia. I think we can't take this historic opportunity away; we need to put the country and the people ahead of us. We therefore ask all the eligible parties to participate in the constructive, dialogue and listening negotiation process and not to put themselves through the negotiation process. We have achieved a negotiating space that has value in itself and we want to explore all the opportunities that you offer us to achieve our ultimate goal: the absolvement of the Catalan Republic. Calen decisive steps to consolidate the negotiation between the two parties. They also take decisive steps on the part of the Government of the State. In this sense, it is obvious that actions such as last week's, with the arrest of President Puigdemont, the actions of the Court of Auditors, the prosecution of Tamara Carrasco and so many others, or, for example, the accusation made by the State Advocate requesting thirteen years of incapacity to the mayor of Rápita and one of his governors, accused of having allowed the U of October to his municipality, do not help people in the process of resolving the conflict. There are different devices from the State, different powers, but no one can be relieved of his responsibility. It can be done and it has to be done. We must prevent them from generating the conditions that can foster trust between the parties in the negotiating process. The first step was to end the repression. And that's what has to happen. If we are not able to generate the conditions, if the Government of the State does not help and cooperate in generating the conditions, it will be much harder, it will make it very difficult to talk and negotiate for nothing. And in this negotiation process we have some truths and many unknowns. We know the Catalan proposal, the proposal that expresses a majority of this Parliament: amnesty and self-determination. But also the days and Catalans passed and Catalans do not know yet what the Government of the State is proposing as a solution to the political conflict. The political objective of the Government of Catalonia is independence and our proposal to resolve the political conflict with the State is amnesty and self-determination, freedom and democracy. And so we exposed it before the Spanish government. Amnesty to end the repression and persecution of a political movement, and to bring the conflict back to politics, to resolve it. And a self-determination reference that you can give to the entire people of Catalonia to decide the future of the country. These proposals contain the largest consensuses that exist, the highest consensuses of Catalonia's citizens around the resolution of the conflict. It is not just the proposals of the independenceists or some political party. I think that's the proposal that most represents the consensus that exists in Catalonia. And in this sense, I would also like to point out that the reference is the most inclusive proposal that can be put on the table to resolve the political conflict. Because we are talking about a democratic process, free, legitimate, where everyone can defend their proposal on equal terms and where everyone can make their voice felt through a referendum, a vote, which must also be endorsed by the international community. This was done Scotland – and it will do so again – to face a conflict that has very similar characteristics. And it's obviously the most inclusive proposal, because all the options in the reference have the opportunity to win, all the options we have the right to win and we all accept the result. As a minimum, I will accept the result, because any future project can be based on the imposition or denial of the other's reasons. And that is why the reference is the best solution, which includes all of us, which does not oblige anyone to give up their ideals, and a proposal that also allows us to emerge reinforced as a society, as a different society, with different views, but which resolves them by debating, questioning and voting. Democracy together, democracy strengthens societies. Democracy is the most legitimate instrument we can use to resolve political conflicts. Catalonia is a deeply democratic society, with values about freedom, democracy and the fact that they are very backward, that they are historical. And, therefore, whether or not he is present, the solution will be in the ballot box, the only solution will be the ballot box. And the reference given and, therefore, with international endorsement, is the best solution. And this is my proposal as president. This is also the proposal – amnesty, self-determination – that generates more consensus to resolve the political conflict between Catalan society. I regain the consent of independenceists and also of non-independenceists. The question is: this is the proposal of the Government of Catalonia; what is the proposal of the Government of the State? What proposal does the Spanish State have for Catalans and Catalans? Until today, we haven't heard anything. But now, precisely for this, it is necessary to force the State to mull, to move 'if to present its proposal. In this sense, therefore, the Government is completely compromised and will therefore guide this element, an important part of our pocket. But there's also a lot of other pockets to do just as important. We are fighting to defeat repression and to find a political solution to the conflict between Catalonia and the State. We are also facing the health crisis to help the most vulnerable people and the most affected economic sectors. We are working and working for economic reconstruction and the transformation of the product model, in the face of the climate crisis, for a society that is more egalitarian, more feminist; for the defence of human rights and for a deeply democratic society. You know where we're going, you know where we're going. And, despite the fact that Catalans and Catalans do not have all the resources that we generate or the possibility of being able to implement fully the model of society that responds to the general interest of Catalonia, despite the fact that we do not have a state in favour of it, but, quite often, we have it against, despite all this, the Government of Catalonia will use all and every one of the tools available to execute the plan of government. As you know, last week's government approved the government plan of the 14th legislature with the objectives of social, green, feminist and democratic transformations; a strategic plan that is based on five axes, including more than 1,500 measures, of which three hundred are priorities for its transformative potential. And let me start with the goal of social transformation. We've lived and we're still living the world's worst health crisis in the last century. The pandemic has caused a paradigm shift in our lives. We have to reduce our social life, we have to learn to put distance between ourselves, to create and adapt new spaces and ways of working. We have been helped with digitization and the importance of a robust health system has been demonstrated again. Catalonia has a good health system, but the pandemic has put its weakened, like the main one, which is the lack of resources, the lack of funding. The impact of the pandemic on the health system has been profound, recovery and transformation actions will be needed to strengthen a public health system that works for social cohesion, to reduce inequalities and also to generate value for the system's whole. In the health field, we last the recovery in two senses. For one band, the emotional recovery of the population and above all of the health professionals, to whom, once more, I want to thank their efforts, dedication and compromise during all these months of pandemic. From the other side, the recovery of health activity, which has had to differ and which has had an impact on the health of the population. Therefore, we will prioritize attention to mental salvation. The indicators indicate that there has been an increase in the possibility of suffering a difficult problem of mental health, especially among the young population, and also among our economically more disadvantaged fellow citizens, who suffer more from economic inequalities. For this reason we will allocate 80_million euros from the budget to strengthen and transform the mental health network, especially children and young people. Mental disorders have an important impact on the quality of life of the person, and also affect all areas of interpersonal relationships: family, social, work. Prioritizing the emotional well-being and mental health of the people is a country goal, an inescapable priority that we will address by developing and approving the national pact for mental health to achieve the recovery and community rehabilitation of everyone who may be affected by it. Primary and community care has played a central and essential role in the resolution, containment and monitoring of the pandemic. We've proven it again with the last one. It is necessary to advance in the transformation of the primary care model, making it exercise a true leadership of the care process and the healing of the person's salvation beyond his life. This is why we commit ourselves to earmarking the twenty-five percent of the primary health care premise, so that the system's axis actually becomes, as well as increasing and stabilising the current primary care template. More resources are needed for the health system; more resources are needed to continue facing the pandemic; to recover attention to other diseases; to cope with technological obsolescence; to address mental health problems, and to improve emotional well-being and community health; to consolidate the increase in the number of professionals hired for covid-19, and to improve the working and remunerative conditions of health professionals. That's why we're aiming to increase the public health budget by an additional 5,000_million euros over the next five years. To do so, we will need to be demanding in the demand of our resources to the State, which chronically has underfunded public sanitation, and to whom I can now claim to comply with its obligations. Hi and sport are two guys of the same coin. We know that a society that practices sport and physical activity is, in general, a much healthier society, and, moreover, it is a fundamental element of social cohesion, of socialization, especially in a society that is more diverse every day. That's why we need to boost the sport, and we're going to turn it into a country project where you have access to the whole city, making it a special focus on women's sport. We will make efforts to promote physical activity and sport at all stages of life, and we will do so in part by approving the new law of sport and physical activity. The pandemic has also shown that school is one of the best tools to fight inequality and promote equity. Education is an essential public service for some families who have already painted adversity in many areas. And we're after now... like we're after it's not going to tell us "it's always been like this, now it's when I have to transform, improve, do things another way. Education has a prominent role to play in building a country that we want to be equal and fair, and the government's main objective is to guarantee the right to education of all students with maximum inclusiveness and no segregation. Child education, and concretely the zero-three stage is key. It is a fundamental element of the education system. Schooling at this stage is an opportunity for the integral development of infants. It promotes equal opportunities and the reconciliation of work and family life. As I said at first, in this legislature we will advance to progressive gratuity and the territorially balanced offer of education from zero to three years, beginning in 2022 for the last year of the Bressol school. Therefore, this gratuity of P2 will begin to unfold in the assumptions of 2022. Access to the zero-three stage on an equal footing by all persons, regardless of family economic conditions, is one of the first and most important factors of equity and cohesion. It's a transformation lever. We know that families at risk of exclusion or economic difficulties caused by the current pandemic situation, but also because of the continuing economic crisis, have been the first to disenrol their infants from the zero-three stage, precisely because today they do not consider themselves universal and free. It is necessary to reverse this situation, to move towards the gratuitousness of this stage, which will allow us to move forward in terms of social equity. We want social transformation to come all the way. This is why we guarantee a territorially balanced educational offer; also in the first cycle of children. We're betting on rural schools with zero-three offers too, we've started doing that in this class. They're a basic tool to fight against depopulation. If we don't cover this stage in the small towns, the families are not leaving, and that's why we promise that the rural school will be closed for economic reasons. Among the objectives of the legislature, it has also continued to work to increase the resources available in order to reduce the ratio to primary and secondary education, and to increase the public offer, follow the way of new equipment or for the incorporation into the public network of the concerted or private centres that require to make this change of ownership there where possible to expand the offer. We will continue to strengthen the Catalan school model, starting with the language immersion model, increasing the use of Catalan and Aran as the vehicle language and reference that it is, and continuing to implement the digital education plan, ensuring that the student is digitally competent to finish the compulsory stage. A Catalan school model that will focus on developing measures to combat school segregation, to maintain the commitment to inclusive school, and to address the mental health and emotional well-being of children and young people, who are not missed by anyone who have been most emotionally affected by the consequences of the pandemic. For this government, vocational training must also contribute to this social transformation that we are pursuing, and which also has an impact on the transformation of the production model. We must have an inclusive vocational training, able to act as a social lever and as an element of equity, inclusion and reintegration into the education system. And we need to adapt the professional qualification structure to the opportunities of the product fabric and the territory. As you may know, this year we have registered a demand that exceeded the pre-registration requirements in a 22_per_cent – in a 22_per_cent – at middle-grade FP cycles and in a 16_per_cent higher than at the later year. In previous years, this growth was around 2_per_cent. We went from 2nd to 22nd and to 16th. We have to work to give the best response to this situation, with the greatest speed and efficiency. At the end of July, we created 4,215 new mid-grade cycle places, starting with an extraordinary increase of sixty groups, an increase in the capacity of the groups in a general way where we had more demand than offer. The economic and health crisis that we are experiencing has had an impact on the people of Catalonia that can only be overcome with the momentum of key actions that shield rights and guarantee a fair recovery for the entire population. Many families have remained vulnerable: in the year 2020, the risk rate for the poor reached its maximum value after fifteen years. The inequalities have disappeared and the obligation of the Government of Catalonia is to leave no one behind. In this way of leaving no one behind and of social transformation, the Government of Catalonia, as I said before, has already put the Pla Pilot Office on the march for Universal Basic Income. A pilot plan that has to be a tool of assessment that allows us to analyze the impact that universal basic income has on the beneficiary population and to be able to compare it with other social returns that already exist. We are deploying a set of social rescue measures that, as I explained earlier, overcome the compromise of my investment to provide them with €700_million. And we did it to respond to the most immediate effects of the crisis. With measures, such as earlier measures, with the increase in the presumption of guaranteed citizenship income, that we will end up at the length of the year with an increase of 140_million euros, or, for example, the actions of approach to combat the poor energy and guarantee of minimum services in order to guarantee basic sub-administrations to families at risk of social exclusion. This added to the help to ERTO workers and to the contracting of the collections that per age, gender or sexual identity unfairly suffer a higher rate according to the first measures that we have already started to apply. We want to make social services the fourth pillar of the welfare state: we need to move towards a universal system that focuses on the person and on their social and community interaction, and we want to have it mediated by the deployment of the strategic social services platform that has to include the increase in the number of professionals and the improvement of working conditions and wages. As you may recall, the virus of the covid-19 unfortunately caused a high mortality of the residential population, and this cannot happen to us again. For this reason, from the Department of Social Rights and the Health Department is working in a coordinated way to protect people living in residential centres, with the intention of integrating the health care of people living in primary care teams. From this reinforced collaboration between departments, we want the new agency: the agency of integrated care, social and health care as the manager of socio-health resources. We need to take care of the weakest, the most vulnerable. That's how we want the government of Catalonia to act, and that's how we have to bring this social transformation to an end. As is also the case with families who are in a situation of surviving residential exclusion; the pandemic has compounded access problems and maintained a decent and adequate housing, and for the Government, housing policies have become an absolute priority. In terms of housing, we will deploy a whole battery of actions to ensure access to and permanence of housing for the most vulnerable people and families, with measures such as the modification of the judicial release protocol, the help lines to pay for the logger, the increase of the public housing stock; with measures such as the recovery of the 100_percent of the three_000 habitats that the Sareb has in Catalonia and of the habitats owned by the funded entities, or with the increase of the assumption of housing policies up to EUR 1,000_million, which is the objective that we mark in the legislature. We will also encourage the promotion of affordable and social housing, placing special emphasis on housing for the emancipation of young people and improving access to housing for large people; two of the collections with higher taxes of vulnerability. Pain Bassa reminded us that work is the best social policy we can do. And, if it's true that in the last few months there's been a recovery of time and occupation, it's true that we haven't reached the levels before the pandemic. The most affected collections are young people from seven to twenty-four years, also women; two of the priority collections for the new government. As I have already commented, we are running a shoal in active employment policies, with the biggest reversal of our history: €917_million. We must not only help this recovery, but also help workers to prepare for new work realities. Work is a determining factor in the transformation of the production system, from which we want and from which we can come if we do not act. Economic recovery cannot be based, as it has been based on the past, on the reduction of real wages. Catalonia cannot compete in labour costs; we must compete in training, in the quality of work, in the added value that each person can carry in his or her work, in talent. We must guarantee the right to decent work, build a framework of working relationships that guarantees the rights of workers and workers guaranteeing decent wages, with the aim of advancing to a minimum wage of reference in Catalonia that is a minimum of 60 % of the average wage in Catalonia. We must continue to work to promote economic recovery. The Government of Catalonia, however, was able to prevent the economic substratum from being more resource-intensive than any other autonomous community government to the sectors most affected by the pandemic, preventing the companies affected by the crisis from closing, helping the local authorities and helping workers, but we do not want or can limit ourselves to economic recovery; we want to take a step further: we want to transform the production model, make it more sustainable, more resilient before the crises, act before the climate emergency and adapt to new realities, placing people and life at the centre of our production model. The Administration must have this entrepreneurial vision, it must help to promote strategic projects for the country, projects that must start from an unequivocal responsibility and an unequivocal will for social justice; a formula that is part of the current European policy of socio-economic transformation that replaces the failed neoliberal model. Governments cannot limit themselves to being market correctors: we need to be creators and we need to become guides to ensure the public good; we want to be a state entrepreneur. Through Avançsa we will increase public participation in the business fabric that has rejected help, work for the return to the tremor of public investment and to give support to emerging industries. The central axis of this transformation of the production model must be the industrial sector, because of the power of attraction of the economy, because it plays a decisive role before the climate emergency and because it is the sector that generates the most stable and highest quality occupation. This is why we have already started work on a national industrial pact in Catalonia, a new national industrial pact, which, with the participation of all the sectors involved, is updating the reindustrialisation policy for the period 2022-2025. The transformation of our production model will also enhance the sector of the social and solidary economy; for its natural nature, it connects fully with the objectives to which we aspire: collective and democratic management, the active participation of the sociable people in all spheres of management and decision-making, the relationship to the territory and the fact of prioritizing people and life, place it in a strategic position. We are about to define the legal framework of the social and solidary economy. I expect that, among all of us, the Government and Parliament, we will work because the new law of the social and solidary economy will be adopted as soon as possible. Since the government we've already started. We want Catalonia to move forward in conjunction. And, therefore, knowledge policies are a key and essential element for social cohesion, vertebracy and territorial balance in the country. Catalonia is today in positions ahead of Europe and the world for what it does in the university and research field, with a model that is of reference and of high added value. We must continue in this line, once we have to empower and improve the transfer of knowledge and innovation. It is essential that the research that is done to our universities and research centres arrive at the product fabric, but also to the social fabric, the educational, economic, cultural, health fabric, bring the maximum benefit of the capacity of the generation and transmission system of knowledge. In this line, the government will strengthen the system of universities and research. We need to consolidate the European model of higher education. And we will establish the foundations of a new model of solid and stable university funding that reflected the country's commitment to universities and research as a guarantee of future and progress. Because Catalonia is moving forward together, to transform southern Catalonia, one of the great challenges we have is the digitalization of the economy. Catalonia must become what we call a digital nation that is competitive in the global sphere, a context where digital and digital economies are every time more present and decisive. To absolve him, he must have a country, as the vice president often says, connected by land, sea, air and space. And that is why it is essential to deploy the digital infrastructures that allow the territory to be digitally interconnected, so that access for all people to work, educational and commercial opportunities with independence from visquin or work. Those like teletreball have come to stay, and may be able to favor it from any raccoon in Catalonia; a tool, teletreball, which can allow us to approach reptes like that of depopulation. This is why we will define a new model of digital territorial innovation from spaces or areas of interest for development for innovation, oriented towards the creation of business, digital, specific ecosystems of the territory, with particular attention to rural areas or at risk of depopulation. We will develop a plan to overcome the digital divide so as to advance the social and economic development of the country and the full equality of opportunities. Reversing the negative effects of the pandemic on economic and social fabric and taking advantage of the opportunity represented by European foundations are the two great challenges of this legislature. But we must make it very clear that Catalonia has been suffering from the effects of a fiscal deficit and endemic investments for many years; a situation that the Government is willing to correct in order to advance towards full sovereignty. With all the resources at our disposal, we need to work out the assumptions. And in this sense, the objective is to ensure economic sustainability in the medium and long term and to improve the Generality's financial capacity. The Government of the State has set a deficit target of 0.6 and not 1.1, as we had requested; this clearly limits the ability to perform the assumption. We need to be aware that eighty-five-cent euros that the government can spend on the new premise are already allocated to current spending to assist public service providers. For this reason, in Catalonia the welfare state is a state of the Catalan welfare, because the finances of the generality. This fact, which eighty-five_of_one hundred euros that the government can spend is already compromised, demonstrates our limited capacity to act and that it prevents us from improving the living conditions of the citizenry according to the taxes that we pay all Catalans and all Catalans. We will be the most efficient, therefore, with the resources we have, we will make a social distribution, fair and balanced, and then we will not give up using the tools we have to expand economic capacity through taxation, such as the fight against tax fraud or the implementation that we are doing now of fiscal measures that encourage more respectful behaviour with the environment, enhancing green taxation. We will make a presumptive effort in those areas that guarantee the welfare and progress of citizens and citizens: health, education, social protection and cures. Also in the realm of culture, understand it as a right made up more of the welfare state. We are aware that culture is one of the sectors most affected by the consequences of the pandemic, restrictions of activity, affort and mobility. We want to take care of culture, we want to revalue culture, as a social action, as a creative action of our space, of our country and of our era. It's time to push for a new cultural renaissance, a new post-pandemic cultural renaissance. In order to cope with the consequences of the pandemic, it will be necessary to dispose of the appropriate resources, which we say in the settlement of the two_per_cent of the Generality's assumption at the end of the legislature. Getting to be a cultural system of international reference requires everyone's input, because culture begins to be an element already in school and accompanies us at all times and in all areas of our lives. It is necessary to guarantee free and universal access to culture as an inalienable basic right; to boost the audiovisual sector as a source of economic growth, and also to preserve European cultural diversity from Catalonia's own identity in a globalised market. In this sense, it is essential that the new Spanish audiovisual communication law protects the Catalan language and our audiovisual sector. Audiovisual occupies a good part of our time, and that is why it is so important to guarantee the presence of Catalan language and culture. We must devote our efforts to the Catalan audiovisual sector. And we've already started doing it since today. For example, the Government has taken the first step in drafting the amendment of the Catalan audiovisual communication law, updating, therefore, the standard mark in force since 2005. And it's a mark that's obviously gone. We protect the present and future of the Catalan language. The state law of audiovisual can be two things: either a catalan stock or an opportunity for catalan. And no one gets away with the fact that the original text that was known was a stock, a stock that some of us could come to consider definitive. By luck, the work of the Government of Catalonia, also of the parliamentarians in Madrid, has served to put up with it, and now we are working to examine it, making use of all our strength and our commitment. In parallel, we need to work on the Catalan audiovisual law, which requires maximum agreement with the sector, which has to include all proposals for the future, which has to be an authentic engine of audiovisual production and the impulse of production in catalá, and, at the same time, it has to be a pole of technological attraction and talent. The current law, the current Catalan audiovisual communication law, is a very good law, it is a very good law of 2005, when it was all right to point out the possibility of online consumption and still thought of a use of audiovisual thought in the linear consumption of television. It is therefore a priority to promote in a special way the audiovisual sector in order to stimulate economic activity in a strategic sector that creates cultural and social imaginations, that creates referents. And here, without further delay, we will boost the audiovisual hub and the video game, the centre of reference of southern Europe, which must be structured around a research, innovation and production infrastructure to make the Catalan audiovisual industry more competitive. This hub must allow the creation of innovative audiovisual and digital content that can be recognized by industry, the country and the world. This is a strategic – strategic – sector, which has to be connected in the territory, empowering the industry and giving opportunities to local talent. And, speaking of television and communication media, the renewal of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation and the Catalonia Audiovisual Council is urgent and we are in the Chamber of Deputies. Audio-visual management and control bodies have fallen directions – and therefore a precarious situation –... that need to be renewed to take a new impulse and plan strategy in the medium and long term, a renewal that no one can shut down because it is necessary and essential. We have tools, but I need to renew them, and that goes by consensus in this Parliament. No one can think that the current situation is better than the one that will come, and that is why it is a direction that marks the necessary direction to make the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans a new one of the production and promotion engines of Catalan language. And from this bet, it's about consolidating and stabilising the Catalan News Agency that needs a plan to give it off, and it's always in danger. Renewing the steering organs is the first step, it's essential. But once this is done, as a new programme contract, which must look beyond the economic contribution, it must put forward strategic elements of the impulses of català, of the promotion of the audiovisual, of the technological best; it must face up to challenges in order to relaunch the television, rejoin the template and maintain some channels that have to bet for the leadership, but not for the leadership only quantity but also journalistic quality and audiovisual production. We are compromised – and therefore it is self-requirement – to strengthen our language and our culture. In complex times like the present, when we are determined to open a new stage of the country with the political ambition to make an independent state, we can strengthen what makes us a nation, which is also our language and our culture. Catalan is an action that we need to re-evaluate as the language of finding, as the language of social cohesion, and that is why we will push forward the national pact for language that I pursue shared objectives, such as that everyone in Catalonia is willing to hear and speak Catalan or that the Catalan has a presence in all areas. Let me now, therefore, enter the areas of the climate change compromise, in the area of green transformation. Climate action is the most important environmental challenge facing humanity in this century. Catalonia can't stay out of it. The challenge, therefore, is global, and the answer must be global, but it must now be transformative. Catalonia – and the rest of the world – needs to take the path of the green revolution. Before the climate emergence we can not be impassive, we need to act and we need to do it urgently. The transformation of the product model must also be accompanied by the essential energy transition; the green transformation must be one of the objectives of ending the energy model based on fossil fuel cream and nuclear energy. Renewable energies are the ones that must enable us to decarbonize our lives and reduce the emission of polluting gases to the atmosphere. And we're stuck and we have to make a leap forward. This is why we announced the amendment of Decree 16/2019, of urgent measures for the climate emergence and the impulse of renewable energies, to ensure that the projects of new installations also include the participation of the inhabitants of the nuclei where they want to be located. The transition to renewables is unstoppable, but if this transition does not happen to us, does not feature this society, they will do it from the outside and following the energy model extractivist and oligopolistic that has prevailed so far. Among the actions that the Government wants to promote is the development of the National Energy Transition Pact, which must aim to reach the 100_percent renewable by 2050; the approval of the Energy Transition Law, in coherence with the objectives set to the Climate Change Law and under an energy model will be sown, democratized, sustainable, 100_percent renewable and proximity. And we will create in this sense a public energy company that allows us to influence from the Administration in the energy sector, a public energy that can affect all phases of the electricity sector, so that we can define and plan the energy transition model as well. The objectives must be: to participate in the ownership of nine renewable generation plants and to help and participate in the development of renewable and civic energy communities; secondly, to take part in the public management of hydroelectric power plants from which concessions expire; and, thirdly, to coordinate participation in the management of electric vehicle reclamation services. The preservation of biodiversity is also one of our great objectives linked to climate action. The green infrastructure strategy of Catalonia, the functional inn of the Agency of Nature must be two decisive elements to help the challenge of preserving our natural heritage and biodiversity. In this preservation of our surroundings we will help, and much, if we generate fewer residues, and those that we generate the recyclers or value them. This is why we will encourage selective collection, the circular economy, the valuation of waste, the disposal of waste, the recovery of space and degraded soils. In the transformation of our product model, in this green transformation that is connected to it, it is also appropriate to act in agri-food policies. We need to transform our food production system into a model that allows us to achieve a greater degree of self-sufficiency in quality, health and proximity foods, and also to respond to the challenges that the whole planet has and that Catalonia also has, therefore, for what it does to climate change and the loss of biodiversity. We want a sustainable agri-food sector economically, socially and environmentally. One of the engines that will guide this government, therefore, is also territorial cohesion. For a balanced territorial development of rural areas, we must encourage the economic diversification of these regions, encouraging as a first step the competitiveness of agriculture, the industry, fishing and the sustainable management of natural resources. This is why we are deploying the law of agricultural areas, aimed at promoting the generational replenishment and putting the land into production in disuse. We will deploy the modernization program of regadius, continuing the works of the Segarra-Garrigues, modernizing the Urgell channel or executing the project Xerta-Sénia. And we will approve and deploy the rural agenda of Catalonia, providing the territory with enough services so that people can develop their personal or professional life project there on free sculline. We do not just have to connect the territory with digital infrastructures, as I have explained before; also with physical infrastructures that must allow cohesion and connect all the points of our country to one another and connect us with the outside. Connections with a safer, more sustainable, more efficient, more intelligent road, rail, airport and port network. Our goal is to promote the decarbonization of mobility. Connectivity must be linked to the preservation of our environment, to the preservation of the natural environment and to the fight against climate change. This goes on to complete a powerful public transport network with frequent improvements, adapting them to the needs of each territory, improving intermodality. We must ensure that the transport collected is the first means of travel chosen for the citizen in front of the private vehicle. It is essential to have all the tools at our disposal to achieve it. It is necessary and essential that all road, rail, port and airport infrastructure be managed from the level of government closest to people and territory. We do not want any more incompliments or a transport system that does not respond to the needs we have with the country. And in this sense, we won't accept head restraints. In the matter of airport we bet because Catalonia has an airport directly connected to the world with intercontinental flights. We want to develop an airport model that connects with high speed to the airports of Reus and Girona, a model that responds to the needs of the productive economy, that respects biodiversity and natural heritage and that fights against climate emergency reducing the emission of greenhouse gases. This is why we need to complete the transfer of Barcelona airport management - Prat, Girona airport and Reus airport, in order to be able to decide from Catalonia what is the airport model and, therefore, also the product model that we want as the country. And in this sense I regret that the position of the Government of the State has been to make a last resort policy on the future Catalan airport. It has thus prevented the future of Catalonia's airports from being concrete, detailed, in a consensual manner among all the country's administrations. We will continue to work on our own model, which must be agreed territorially and be responsible for the climate change. Beyond the infrastructure, the vertebration of the territory also passes to keep it straight and to keep it tidy. A country as heterogeneous as ours, in which there is a very powerful metropolitan area, but there is also a system of small and medium-sized towns that articulate the conjunct of the territory, needs specific tools for each case, that age to achieve maximum territorial efficiency, minimize urban and territorial inequality and avoid depopulation. In this sense, Catalonia's urban agenda needs to be consolidated as the strategic framework because cities and cities are the driving force behind the demise of a digital, connected, independent and innovative country. At the same time, we will develop the strategy of dynamism of the rural world municipalities, which will enable us to strengthen the potentialities of the territories, mitigate territorial inequalities and depopulation of mountain areas. Among these actions, and in this framework, we also have support for the application of the Winter Olympic Games Pirineus-Barcelona, which we understand as an opportunity if we place it in an ecological, social and sustainable framework that will require a broad social, territorial and political consensus, and with the compromise to promote a consultation at the city council of the affected peoples of the Pyrenees. This consultation we will do, and it will be the coming year, it must be possible to do the Winter Games. With these criteria, with consent and adapting to the global challenges we have set. Inequalities, discrimination and rape are also the cause and consequence of the structural oppression system that generates arbitrary domination such as heteropatriarchate, racism or anti-Gypsyism. Equality is, therefore, an empire, a democratic empire, because without equality there is no individual or collective freedom, and in this way within which is the third objective of this Government: the transformation into a feminist key. Thus, government action will be aimed at building a country worth living for. Guarantee women's rights to live free of imposed roles and stereotypes, and free, above all, of rapes. The feminist transformation of the country is a democratic empire, and it is for all administrations and public powers. In this sense, the Department of Equality and Feminisms is a key structure of the Government, which has the explicit task of transversalizing this principle of equality into all the actions of the Government, of leading this transformation into a feminist key. We start from an idea of positive freedom, freedom as well as non-dominance, which can only be exercised when it is done collectively, and therefore the action of the Government has as its objective the fairness, fair distribution of rights, obligations, opportunities, resources based on recognition and respect for difference. To absolve a real gender equity, we must continue to equip the country with the most powerful tools to make it possible. For this reason, we are developing a preliminary draft law amending Law 17/2015 of effective equality of women and men, and they will also deploy a menstrual equity strategy framed with a national strategy to guarantee sexual and reproductive rights. For example: Access to menstrual hygiene products is estimated to be a few cents a year per capita for women. This makes one of the four women often have to choose between buying menstrual hygiene products or other basic products, and that there are children who are forced to miss school for this reason. We remember that the Spanish state continues to apply the general VAT, and not the super-reduced that would correspond to them as products of primary need. On the other hand, the menstrual products of a sun use have an important environmental impact. For all these reasons, we want to develop measures to enhance menstrual equity, which links transformations into the feminist, green and social sphere, which we commit ourselves to as the Government. The deployment of this measure will initiate this same school year, which will translate into the free distribution of sustainable products in the media to educational centres, as well as other collections of women in a vulnerable situation, in educational and advisory actions that extend the information on menstruation. We will therefore prioritise access to reusable products such as the menstrual cup, because these do not only have a positive impact on health and economic sustainability, but also significantly reduce the environmental impact on residues. But inequality between men and women is given in many other areas; in fact, in all areas, also in the workplace. The cross-cutting work between the Department of Enterprise and Work and the Department of Equality and Feminisms has allowed to design a specific line equipped with 21_million euros for the contracting of women victims of male violence, or those who are in a situation of discrimination by place of origin, ethnicity or religion. Violence against women is an instrument of constant intimidation of patriarchy, which results in a heavy violation of human rights. Its eradication is a top political issue for this Government. We will relentlessly pursue the abusers, the abusers, the rapists, the vexers, and bring them before justice. Women have the same rights and rights as men. So everyone's being respected. We will, therefore, reinforce the services of the care network and the full recovery of women in a situation of male violence. We will implement a new model of approach to sexual rape. We will see to the guarantee of non-revictimization when the public authorities act before a case of male violence, and we will develop the specific tools for approaching rapes in the educational, digital, obstetric and political spheres. We also find inequality in the field of sport. It's a place where inequality has been more present, where it's more visible. In this context, we must also realize this transformation into a feminist key. This legislature must be the legislature of women's sport. We are a society that wants to be free of masculinities and patriarchy. We want the women's sport to get to where it's worth, to stop putting it, to differentiate it with this adjective, but before we can get it to the tools, resources, to place it at where it's corresponding. We will develop the National Women's Sport Pulse Plan in coordination with all sports and institutional agents. We'll make human rights a basic pillar of this government. That's why we're implementing a victim-centred, comprehensive intervention model, in front of hate crimes and discrimination, by deploying the equal treatment and non-discrimination law. We fight hate expressions and practices through the fight against false news and stigma against certain social groups and certain collections. In this same line, we will develop support and support actions for people and organisations working in the defence of human rights in Catalonia, as well as in the defence of civil and political rights. Memory policies are equally key to the promotion of human rights. For this reason the Government, through the Department of Justice, will draw up the draft comprehensive law of democratic memory of Catalonia. And we will work to turn the Upper Police Prefecture of Via Laietana into a centre for interpreting the memory and denunciation of the franchise. [[Greetings.]] Today is not a democratic symbol. And if anyone considers it a democratic symbol, it shows what the definition of democracy is, which is extremely far from ours. We will work because it is a space and a symbol of democratic memory, because the tortures that occurred there never again go back to place and against anyone. The great objective of this Government is also to advance the democratic transformation and, therefore, to advance the resolution – as I explained earlier – of the political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State through the negotiation process. After the 14th of February elections, the majorities in this sense were clear. Citizens and citizens were freely expressed in the ballot box and, unfortunately, it was not the best context to do so, as the third wave of the pandemic. But on the other hand, we are well aware that a democratic society is much more than the election of public representatives through the ballot box, it is also a good government. By a government that is committed to transparency, that has the pane of glass, that holds accounts, that is in constant evaluation, that counts with direct and high levels of compromises and compromises with the quality of public services and the functioning of the Administration, as well as with ethical principles and good practices. A government aware that public resources are scarce and that every euro we invest must have the maximum social return. Every euro that is inefficiently reversed means losing opportunities. And we have to avoid it. Every euro that doesn't invest with a public purpose is embezzlement, it's crime and we'll pursue it. We will continue to fight corruption and strengthen the public integrity of other bodies and public directives. A good government is also effective in an open government, a cross-cutting competence of knowledge transfer, participation and collaboration with citizens and between administrations, the public sector, the social sphere, the third sector and businesses. With an open government the country is reactivated, it promotes innovation and is fought against corruption. An open government is also a transparent government, a government that disseminates and gives access to public information, and a government that opens up data to citizens, public entities, and also to the social and private sectors in order to deal collaboratively with global challenges, all of which integrate collective intelligence into public policy through participatory processes. A good government, an open government and a good administration, this is our will. As for example, I get it to the Justice Administration, which we want it to be closer to the citizenry, more agile and more efficient. We must say that it is complicated to have a good administration of justice when this is underfunded. Since 1996 the competitions have been passed on to the Generalitat de Catalunya, they have not reviewed the funding parameters again. The Government of the State has to pay us the €6.2 million outstanding from the last investments in jutjats in order to be able to face up to nine. And we have to raise the EUR 60 million outstanding in court fees that are collected in Catalonia and that promised they would be used to finance the turn of offices, the defense of the most vulnerable people. All in all, the Government of Catalonia, as it has done, will continue to work to transform, digitize and modernise the Administration of Justice to make it more agile. In this transformation of the model of justice towards a more agile justice, we will push the out-of-court way for those conflicts that can be resolved through alternate mechanisms such as mediation, which allow to reduce the cases that end in jutjats. We want the disagreements to be resolved through agreements. We bet on the alternative resolution of conflicts. But also, because the Administration of Justice in Catalonia is a reflection of our social and cultural reality, so that it has the Catalan civil right as the basis of its practice. That's why we're claiming, empowering, invoking, and continuing to settle for the new citizens' needs. We will look for the lives that lead us to have judgments and judgments and you will function and functions of the Administration of Justice behind in Catalonia with knowledge of social reality so that the current high rotation that we suffer is reduced. The model that we want to pass also to have a justice that assures our linguistic rights, that is able to be filled and is able to lend in català. We want a model of justice and reference for the achievement of rights and freedoms. And we also want to transform the model of public security that, as in all democratic society, must guarantee the exercise of rights and freedoms. The democratic transformation we would make possible thanks to a public security model that assures it. Through the body of Mossos d'Esquadra, we will learn the equality of rights of everyone and we will age for respect for the diversity of the citizenry fighting against all forms of discrimination. And we would also ensure that you can enjoy public space by making all uses compatible and that these are exercised with good coexistence and citizenship. Cove-19 has re-examined the debate between security and freedom. They're not incompatible elements. We understand that there is no freedom without security and that security must guarantee rights and freedoms especially in situations of maximum vulnerability. With these parameters, we will update the public security model that enhances transparency, efficiency, coordination of the bodies, which is closer and guarantees non-discrimination. In this transformation of the public safety model, we will incorporate prevention and mediation elements as the main strategy for resolving conflicts in police actions, we will develop security plans for vulnerable communities, such as those of large people, victims of male violence or children and adolescents. This government, like any democratic government around us, also has the duty to explain to the world what Catalonia is and who our collective interests are. External action is a competition that forms part of a country's democratic normality. And in our case, moreover, it is a recognized competence for the State. It is a two-way country policy for the benefit of all citizens. In a context of pandemic, of economic and social crisis, of global challenges in which Catalonia must participate, the international presence of our country is irrevocable. Under the premise that global challenges call for global solutions, the three concepts that will guide the government's external action in this legislature are: presence, influence and compromise. We want to be an independent state, a country that is part of the family of states. The international promotion task of our country will not be done for us, either in the economic, social or cultural sphere. And I have constantly demonstrated the State when, for example, in the cultural sphere it prevents the Catalan language, a language spoken by millions of Europeans, from still being, at this time, an official language of the European Union. That is why we will place the external action of the Government of Catalonia at its maximum potential, with all the ambition. This is a government that reflects a chosen majority in the ballot box, which has a broad parliamentary support, which comes from an independent mandate of fifty-two per cent of voters, and therefore we explain to the outside world, without intermediaries or distortions, what is Catalonia's social and political reality; in its diversity, but we explain it. For all this, we will consolidate the external action of Catalonia through, among other activities, the approval of the new strategic plan of external action and of the European Union for the period 2023-2026 and the consolidation and strengthening of the network of external delegations and sectoral offices as the institutional representation of the Government. Catalan cooperation in development is also a key part of our commitment to humanity; it is also a key part of Catalan foreign policy. Catalonia is compromised with global development, with the promotion of human rights and peace. And this is the contribution we want to make to the world. For this reason, we will continue to execute the cooperation plan at the current development; we will approve the following one, which is for 2023-2026, and we will increase the assumption of cooperation at the time of 0.7 to 2030. I'm done. These are, in summary, the master lines, the main objectives of action planned by the new Government and which are in the plan of government, some lines and actions aligned absolutely with the objectives for sustainable development approved by the United Nations in the framework of the 2030 Agenda: transformation, progress, social justice and democracy. We're not here to do what's always been done. We're not here to keep doing the things that have always been done. We'll find a lot of resistance, but we'll get out of it. We have the obligation, I have the obligation, we have the will and I have the will, and I have the obsession to improve the life of our country's citizens, to work for the southern Catalonia, to build a society that is socially just, economically secure, democraticly advanced and fully free. That's what this government will do. That's what I'm gonna do as president. I compromised myself and worked as president of all Catalans and all Catalans. And, therefore, I will do all I can to make the Catalan people decide freely their future at the polls. Democracy, reference, is the most inclusive proposal there is. It is the proposal that allows all options to express their voice. It's what allows all options to have the opportunity to win. All options must be able to win. All options and we have to accept the result. That's what we're gonna do. When this moment arrives, which will arrive, because it is absolutely inevitable, when we can decide the future at the polls, then I will put all my efforts to win the yes, the yes to the independence of Catalonia. I said to the investiture and I come back to say today: I work as president of all Catalans and every Catalan, and we will do everything possible, this government, for the culmination of Catalonia's independence. Dream Catalonia free! [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-28-1201.3.0	Thank you very much. Therefore, the intervention of the President of the Generality, we suspend the session until tomorrow at nine. Allow me to remind them of the minute of silence to the facenna of Parliament. Thank you very much.
