ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.1.0	Very good morning, if you can go to your seats, please, we'll start the session. [[Question to the Government on T-Mobility]] [[300-00048/13]] And we take it back on the agenda item, the question to the Government on T-Mobility, which was presented by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress. And you have the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.2.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, councillor, deputies, deputies... what could go wrong? That's all. From the beginning this is a project that doesn't start well, Vice President. I think the ones that we've already done a follow-up of this project we've been mouthed down when the year, if I don't remember it badly, 2014, is the first..., the first years that started to talk about T-Mobility seriously, see here the government and present us with a project that, from our point of view, doesn't start well, because they explain to us that the financing of the project will come out, not of mobility parties, huh? , which would be the logic, but it would come out of the plan of the poor that presented the councilwoman Munté. And, therefore, its financing, through this plan of the poor. Nobody here hears anything, right? Look, it's been seven years since we were born: now yes, now it will be T-Mobility. And after each announcement, the conclusion is that now neither. And we're here, huh? It's been seven years and this is the timeline. It had to be, according to the words of the Government of the Generality, the second great revolution of public transport. You, as much as you talk about efficiency and security to criticize other administrations, I don't know how I would define T-Mobility, the whole process that has taken us, from 2014 to 2021, the end of 2021, right? For the time being, we have no real results and no predictions. From our point of view, T-Mobility is a project that has been and is poorly managed, that has been poorly planned, that of little transparency – that, right, huh? – and that they carry many years of delay and excessive costs. Let's hope we're talking about it too. For now, Mr. Vice President, what we have in front of us is a continuing disaster, isn't it? And this time we can't blame Madrid – you always like to blame Madrid and some others – because I'll remind you – from the beginning, all – all – all – the councillors have always been of Democratic Convergence and Junts for Catalonia, which is its natural successor. We also leave it, that we see lack of transparency in the development of the project; contracts that cost us to find the costs; the investments planned, that also..., that cost us to follow them; the counter-performances of this project; the compensations that should be produced; we do not know, at this time, the economic plan to finance the T-Mobility; seven years of delay and still have not finished the pilot tests. In fact, we get continuous complaints, from these pilot tests that have been made. For example, machines that validate buses, hours of the day, today, still do not work properly, there are continuous complaints; also drivers. It was yesterday, wasn't it? There's a problem with that. And the later filtering of data that, when we hear it, is a serious fact. And it's still more, vice president, frivolizing, as has been done by some responsible, whether or not they were sensitive data. All personal data are sensitive. And you should know better than anyone else that, besides, has the responsibility and competence of digital policies; not in this government, also in the past. And, therefore, we do not understand that this has happened. All personal data, if filtered, are sensitive. It's an incomprehensible disaster from our point of view. And listen, it wasn't a hacker, it was an interested person in the pilot test, who wanted to participate – ai, las! , is that he was an expert, plus, in software – and he got it. Imagine the disaster that could have been, if, in the accounts of being a person who went in with annimities of volunteering for this pilot test, up to being a hacker of truth. They've destroyed the work they've done so far. Or even harder: that you didn't say anything, that the process went on and, when there were thousands of registered users and users, you made an entry into the system, didn't you? Besides, speaking of the T-Mobility website, you also know that, the one who at those times was like the pilot test does not meet the European Union's safety standards. We want to ask you: did anyone, within the Metropolity Transport Authority, or within the CTTI, do any security audits of everything that had been produced? How many tests, from this point of view, were made to the staff of the ATM and TMB, who volunteered, before the summer, to start the first tests? Didn't they detect these problems? And, in view of what has happened, I want to ask you: what paper will the CTTI play from then on? Says in another way: if we do not apply measures – that you too often get ahead – of cybersecurity, what confidence will the user or user have in this system? Let's mafegate it there: we need to regain the confidence of users and users in public transport. And mistakes like this are exactly undermining that trust. They explained to us that the initial cost of the T-Mobility project was around 60_million euros; it did not arrive, it was missing pocket. We want to ask you 'here, Vice President: when do we carry – yes, fifty-night, I had it pointed out here – Vice President, spent so far, of these fifty-night? The previous councillor of the branch, Mr. Damià Calvet, in a parliamentary appearance that he did not make much time – a couple of years, if I don't recall it badly – told us that, as a result of the agreements that had been adopted in the board of directors, he needed, therefore, a certain injection of more resources. With the numbers we have made, it leads us to the conclusion that, as a minimum, they carry 100_million euros spent; but we cannot certify the cent of this amount. Some say more, huh? And some say more. In any case, we ask you for a certain precision with respect to how much money we carry. I mean, double, huh? We practically spend twice as much on this project. Millions of euros spent, Vice-President, on overruns; with externalisations, too, showing the confidence you must have in the concessionaire of this project. If my numbers are not inaccurate and my data are not inaccurate, around 20_million euros in externalizations, out of what the project would be. So we're asking for explanations, aren't we? because we don't have any tangible results at the moment. We also want to ask him for some assertions made by his predecessor, who explained to us that penalties would be imposed on the concessionary company for incompliments. In fact, these penalties, for our information, could be around 14_million euros, but it also leaked into some kind of communication that you have suspected these penalties. We'd like you to tell us how this is going. And it would also be appropriate, Vice-President, to know all the clauses of the contract, because everything..., even all those that are subject..., that you so much as say 'no', is that this is subject to confidentiality. Clearly, there are so many things subject to confidentiality that, in the end, no one knows what this T-Mobility was about. And above all the costs, right? We believe that for the time being, for what we know and for what we have seen, the management of T-Mobility is deplorable. There are unplanned economic costs, seven years of delays, the shame of the last week, and it seems to us inversely that, at these heights, none – none – of the Authority of Metropolity Transport or of the concessionary enterprise, has assumed any responsibility. And, in fact, that government doesn't require any responsibility. We want to know, why that didn't happen. I have a few more things to ask him, but I'll do it in the second intervention. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.3.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The words of the Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.4.0	Well, good morning, deputies and deputies, president. Congressman Terrades, first let's start, finally, make..., you've made many statements and some of them..., any one could share it and we'd definitely agree, huh? That, in everything he's commented on, it's probably not Madrid's fault in this case, it's already in progress, huh? Therefore, it will not be, say, the focus of my [[applause]] ...of my report. But I'll tell him, won't I? ... or so, you come out here and it looks like you don't have anything to see in this project, huh? [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] No, listen. [[the remorse of the voice persists]] I'll... no, man, I'll remind you... you know who the lady is... I imagine you know who the lady Janet Sanz is, don't you? Or who's Mr. Antoni Poveda. Mr. Antoni Poveda is vice president of this entity for years. I do, that in soc, three_months [[remorse of the voice]] President, huh? [[Greetings.]] And the ATM is a consortium where we participate in three administrations. So, it's not a Generality project; it's a Generality project, the Barcelona City Council and the metropolitan area. And it's a joint project and we want it to go well. So maybe we should work harder and not stick to the wheels in a project where we play Catalonia's mobility, in short, in this very decisive project. I say so, because you are also responsible, as are the common ones, for this project; we are all responsible. And this isn't a project... you mentioned the CTTI. It's just the CTTI here isn't even expecting it. This is not a project that is fired from the generality's informational background. The ATM has its own, say, ability to pull forward this IT mobility project and, therefore, awards and bids to whom it believes to be appropriate. So we don't sweep things, huh? Here the CTTI has nothing to see, nor the informational background of the Generality. I think it would be good to describe a little something that is the object of this project. And then I'll obviously talk about the incident, huh? This is not just a magnetic bit replacement project for contactless targets, or contactless technology. It's a complex project, which has six very important subprojects. Obviously, from the implementation of the ticketing system supported by digital technologies, as well as the implementation behind a big data project to take advantage of all the data that the system has to generate and, therefore, to be able to make better decisions in terms of economic management, in terms of what we serve, in terms of information to the user. It is a project, too, that wants to implement a new tariff model; so that the crowns disappear and that we can tariff for kilometers, by distance. It is also a project that wants to address a custom payment model by the user; therefore, it also introduces new payment modalities. And it's also a project that is trying and that will want to be scaled to the entire tariff system integrated into the Catalonian joint. Finally, we're talking about a project of an abaster amp. And it's true– and I give it the reason– that we carry masses of years, huh? You said so. It began concretely on October 2013, where the competitive dialogue was launched to define the characteristics of this tender; that after May 2014 the Board of Directors of the ATM approved the tender for an import of 58_million euros, and that it was awarded to a company, Soc Mobility, formed by four partners– Fujitsu, Indra, Movenia and CaixaBank – to which they later incorporated, with minority participations, three more suppliers: TMB, Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat de Catalunya and Sermetra. October 2014 marked, as he said, the contract with Soc Mobility. And then I have to say that some of these delays, for example, are produced because with the change in the Barcelona government, after the municipal elections, it turns out that part of the assembly is questioning the project. And, therefore, the new Government, of which you are a part, questions this project and shows its disagreement with some of the questions and, therefore, must be reconfigured again the abst and conditions of the project. So, you don't charge us and you don't charge the Government of the Generality with some of these delays, because, as I'm saying, I think we're all in charge, and I understand that we all want to have a full mechanism of mobility, and so we should all say in favour, when I said, more than ever, that the Vice President of the Entity, of the Metropolitan Transport Authority, so, listen, it's Mr. Poveda, that you know very well, from years ago, and so that you must also have some responsibility, in everything. Finally, there have also been, during this period, two elements or two situations that no one could foresee. The first was that we had to take the lead..., we were for a while with 155, where there was no government of the Generality. I, therefore, the government... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, it's true, listen, this is done. We were practically, we could say, a year in which the Government of the State was not the elected representatives of this country, but we had, in this sense, the Government of the State protecting the Government. And then we also had the pandemic for the middle. Therefore, there have been two unplanned situations which surely could explain this delay, which I already say is unjustifiable, and which is why I have already bought myself in this legislature. And so this has to be the legislature where T-Mobility finally comes into service, and that's what we're doing. And let me give you some data on the evidence that has taken place since I became president of the ATM and, therefore, advisor to the branch. At the end of June 2021, the first T-Mobility tests began, with contactless targets, with 4,600 participants. And from July 5 to July 16 the same tests were also carried out with the mobile application with 4,000 participants. I must say that the tests have been very satisfactory – very satisfactory. I'll give him some money. See, in total, in the area of contactless targets, the noranta_per_cent of the four_ thousand users who were proving them– the noranta_per_cent– qualified between an 8 and a 10 their value for this service. And for what they did to the mobile, it was fifty-four percent. And in both cases, less than a 20 per cent gave a note of an approved in this new system. Therefore, we are talking about very positive figures. In fact, during this phase and until September 30, 300,000 validations – 300,000 – had been produced, with only a two_per_cent of errors. Therefore, we are at this stage of inlet in a complex system, which obviously needs to be tested and, obviously, when these types of systems are inlet, so the tests serve precisely to correct those small errors that came out. And I think we're within the acceptable margins of what it means to implement a mobility system like this. Our idea, of course, is that this evidence continues. It is true that October 4th began a new phase of tests that was still more intense, and the 5th day detected a problem related to a cybersecurity incident. And this is an assumption that obviously has had more of a reputation, I think, than actually what the incident meant. It's meant to be magnified, but I have to say that it's actually a much smaller incident, and that some of you who are responsible for this project, as I see it in you, try, in short, to put the pin down. I think they should be more responsible in this sense and not contribute to this situation. Tell him that about this incident, which was detected at 15.39 on October 5, 2021 by a city that he made public, at the end of an hour – at the end of an hour – was already resolved. That's right, the ATM trigated only an hour to resolve the incident. An incident that, when I get to know and inform myself, I quickly asked that the Cybersecurity Agency, which, I insist, is not within the scope of this project, is placed at the disposal of the ATM to help make a report on what could have been this intrusion that had occurred on the part of a user, a city, on the web system, huh? – from the web. Therefore, not in the ATM system, only in the web system, which was where the citizens were registered. And I also asked that it be communicated immediately to the Data Protection Agency in this incident and the data that could have been compromised in this incident. It has to be said that in the preliminary report made by the agency we are talking about that only a thousand registers of this web have been purchased; a thousand registers where there are personal data, in this case name and surname and a name of a user. There is no password, no economic data or any other type of data that could, surely, be much more sensitive than the name, surname and user name of that person. So, we're at this stage, we're at this point. We'll expect the Data Protection Agency to say in its resolution. And to say that the report produced by the Cybersecurity Agency is already correcting this, in other words, vulnerability that existed in this user registry web for testing – for testing –; therefore, it was a proof web. And, therefore, I would ask that it is not magnified and that it is not magnificent, in this sense, therefore, what has been, surely, an event and an incident that could be preventable and that should have been avoidable, but that also happens often and we have not seen, after all, situations of computer attacks that have occurred in some systems of our country in the last few months. And in the reply I will try to answer other questions. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. In the turn of the line, Mr Jordi Terrades has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.6.0	Thank you, President. Home, Vice President, minor incident accessing the web editor... You have to qualify that way, other IT experts don't say it or don't share your position. Imagine he's not a good-willed city, huh? That you've been a professional hacker. Miri what happened at the Autonomous University of Barcelona, right? Or what happened to the United States with energy sub-administration. Well, leave him here. Miri, this is Barrio Sesamo, Vice President. The counselors who have managed this are said Santi Vila, Josep Rull, Damia Calvet and now you. And when it was decided to take up competition, competitive competition, competitive dialogue and privatize the task of T-Mobility, do you know who was the mayor of Barcelona? You know it perfectly well, Mr. Trias. [[Some applause.]] Until today, until these problems have been solved, they have not called for the close collaboration of the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona and the Metropolitan Transports of Barcelona. You wanted to monopolize the management of T-Mobility. Or else, listen, you must be able to explain here, but the whole sector knows perfectly well who managed this from the beginning. Seven years late, Vice President. We do not understand how other European cities already have similar and even more advanced systems. And here we're still stuck. Cities like Paris, London, and Berlin serve systems similar to ours. Even some European capital already serves to pay and to enter public transport facial recognition. No need for contactless and other technologies. So, we don't understand what happened here. Up to and including Spain, Renfe to various roller cores already serves payment systems and direct access without contact, through the bank or mobile, right? And he is already designing, to briefly incorporate into his system, payment for use and make a personalized subscription – that this was also the function of T-Mobility – of using the different services. And let's hope that when the T-Mobility goes into operation, it disappears from the tariff crowns and makes us serve a payment system based on the use that every user, every citizen, makes of public transport. You see, Vice President, I'm already telling you, and I'm already telling you what our young lady is going to do: don't be a Mobility Partner. We believe that it has not been and is not at the height of the problem we have here. We believe that the time has come to embark on this project directly from the Metropolity Transport Authority to recover its management; also from the great transport operators of our country. I say it again: after seven years, we believe that the technology dealership does not rise to the required requirements. Because the conclusion is: many millions invested and tangible remains on the table. And there it is: the project needs to be finished. I already know that you have seen that they say: "Born and new count. Start over. I say this: it's not exactly our position, because here we have allocated around 100_million euros that we can't throw at the paper mill. Look, I don't tell you anymore, I don't ask you from the Faristol to give us a date – which we asked the other advisors – we don't ask you a date, the only one we gave you is: "They don't run. They can't, we can't afford more flakes. Because more errors will affect the trust of users in public transportation and what we have to do is exactly the opposite, is to regain trust. He said: we have little confidence in the dealership, with Soc Mobility; but with those public operators, in particular Metropolitan Transports of Barcelona, which is by far one of the entities that transports the most citizens and citizens across the country. And, therefore, I'm already telling you from here – and we won't ask the next man to give us a date –: they don't run, they do things right, and when the system goes into operation, they have all the guarantees for public transport users and users. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.7.0	Next, the deputy president of the government and advisor of digital policies and territories has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.8.0	Yes, Mr. Terrades, I think you've got the « bacon with speed, because we're talking about that..., and I don't know how many cities have already implemented a system like T-Mobility. No, the ones who have implemented these cities are uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, uncontacted, We are talking about an integrated system, on which, obviously..., and before I explained it: this is a project of six subprojects – and therefore, here is the complexity – which must, too, work to eliminate the crowns, must work to implement the use of the big data in the decision making. Therefore, we are talking about a much more complex and more comprehensive project. Also tell her that... listen, the Generalitat hasn't... neither the Generalitat nor the ATM, huh? They didn't pay for it at this hour, not even a hard one of this project. That's what Soc Mobility has come up with. And, in any case, the return of this reversal that Soc Mobility is going to do, say, in the measure that the service begins to enter into operation. So, I don't know what you're talking about that we've spent or wasted. Listen, neither the Generalitat nor the ATM have put a euro on this project at this hour, huh? It is a project that is financing, in this sense, the companies that are carrying out this initiative. And I think you know that. I insist, this is a project that neither the CTTI nor the Generalitat have any direct involvement, more than I personally chair the ATM and, obviously, this is a project of three administrations, where there is also the Barcelona Assembly and there is also the metropolitan area. What I can assure you is that – and I believe that we must compromise all our folds – this is a project that has to be pulled off definitively – it is already being tested – and that, therefore, it has to be done as soon as possible better. And I think that in this legislature this will be so, and I think that in 2022 we will see great breakthroughs for what it does to the deployment of T-Mobility. I don't have a clue. Listen, you're very concerned and I see you're very concerned about the financing, in this case, or what this transport mechanism means, but you should also worry about the joint financing of public transport to Catalonia. I want to remind you, therefore, that since 2003 the contribution of the Generalitat, in this case, eh? , to the public transport system of Catalonia has passed from forty-three_per_cent to fifty-two_per_cent at present. In change, let's see how in administrations where you govern, huh? – to the City of Barcelona, to the State, to the metropolitan area –..., I will give you some xifra: on the part of the State, for example, the contribution that they anticipate and provide the general assumptions of the State to the ATM, therefore, has diminished. Thirty per cent of the import that was currently only eleven per cent has been brought in. Therefore, you come here to give us lessons on what the stake must mean for mobility in the metropolitan area and in Catalonia's conjunct through the ATM and you are the first ones to return to the contribution made by the State to the ATM, where you govern. And also what the Barcelona Assembly does in this sense in the metropolitan area, percentage in the premise of the ATM. So put down the batteries. If you really want to make a bet for public transport to Catalonia through the ATM, put the money that surrounds you. And I remember that in the general assumptions of the 2021 state, which provided for 149_million euros, we have only now rejected one hundred. Forty and a half are missing, huh? They haven't paid yet. Moreover, in the proposal for a budget just presented to us by the new Government of the State, if the commons are also present, these 40_millions remain unaccounted for. Therefore, less lessons on mobility issues and really are responsible, too, for this co-financing of transport to Catalonia, where every day you have less money, despite the fact that the mouth is filled to talk about mobility to Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.9.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Question to the Government on university autonomy]] [[300-00056/13]] Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the inquiry to the Government on university autonomy; presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Mr Ramon Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.10.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable Councillor Geis, well returned to this Parliament, now as the Councillor. Deputies and deputies, very good morning. Well, today we're talking about university autonomy, and it's a very important concept. Now we have a law in Madrid that is prepared, the organic law of the university system, and, therefore, we must try, therefore, that it is a rule that goes for benefit, that it is profitable, that it is positive in the face of universities in general and university autonomy in particular. What does university autonomy mean? For example, there's a..., constable Geis sure she's gone to openings of academic acts, academic courses, and curiously it's not the consteller or consteller who closes the acts, but she's the rector. And at university this has a medieval origin, huh? In other words, this is from the time when the difference between temporal and spiritual power is very much looked at, when the counselor is now on the move and, in change, the rector is there for a certain time and the university is jealous of this autonomy. And, in this sense, therefore, this view of the Middle Ages and let's quote a French poet, Charles Péguy, who was socialist, Christianity, who lived at the end of the 19th century, who defined Europe..., because this university autonomy has European roots. Deia: "Europe is a forest of medieval universities and Gothic cathedrals. She's very nice, that expression, that definition of Europe, isn't she? Well, university autonomy comes from this European arena. And in this sense, then, I wanted to make this mention now, because we're talking about a question that the university is very sensitive to. I've been a college teacher for 20 years. I've been to the European Parliament for years, which I've seen them as if they were old Erasmus. And I've been a college counselor, doing more than counselor of other things, but let's say, very, very happy and, therefore, delighted to be able to debate universities in this house – well we'll just talk about the law of science. We find so many broad consensuses that the Socialist Party, the commons and the other groups in the chamber too, because we need that... in the last few years, in the last decades we have worked through consensus and the Catalan university model has failed. But I was talking to different people from the academic world yesterday, some tricks to prepare for this intervention, to talk about what can happen to the LOSU, the Organic Law of the University System, which wants to replace the LOU for twenty years ago. And we have some rendezvous, we have some pores. We could have an overly interventionist law, we could have a recent law. And in this sense, so that worries us a little bit. We know from the calendars that this may be the first half of the year coming to Madrid and we should do a..., fine-tuning much of what we are talking about, because we understand that all new draft of the law coming from the central government should respect the transferred competences – in this case, in our case, the State of Catalonia – and should therefore take into account that the Catalan search system, despite the defects it may have, has achieved remarkable results in the last few years. And we have a lot of indicators – for example, from the point of view of the generated patents or of the search grounds obtained from the European Union – that allow us to be proud of our universities. There are Catalan universities that compete with you with universities in France and Italy with a third of the premise. I don't know, as long as we can keep it, as long as we can keep it. But the reality is this: we have Catalan universities that compete with you with very powerful universities of other European countries with one third of the premise. And that, then, is a delicate matter, isn't it? I had here a list of thirty_seconds to give self-esteem of the Catalan university system. Can I have a 30-second falcon? The 2019-2020 course had 30,000 researchers in Catalonia, 39 centres Cerca, 17 centres of the CSIC. There were created 1,600 start-ups, 315 spin-off universities and 1,744 search groups were recognized for the Generality. Therefore, we are talking about a public-private university system that has been thriving in recent years. And also, for example, in the case of the Horizon 2020 funds, so Catalonia has captured a percentage of European competitive funds that almost doubles its GDP and population. Catalonia accounts for 1.5_percent of the GDP of the population of the European Union. It competes between two and three percent of Horizon 2020's competitive European foundations. That's very nice and can give us all self-esteem, but that's obviously not worth... but the university system, which is excellent in this sense. Now, for example, a few days ago Councillor Mas-Colell, Andreu Mas-Colell, one of the most reputed European economists of the last decades, published an article in La Vanguardia talking about "skitted protectionism of myopia. The Royal Decree 822/2021 of the Spanish Government imposed the exclusivity of degrees of three years..., four years-forgived. And with the excuse that Spain has not developed three-year degrees in virtually no university and Catalonia has. And then, contrary to the European standard, which favors these three-year degrees, which there are many European universities and which Catalonia has begun to develop, as there are no Spanish universities, so now they will be four years old in Spain. Clearly, that makes us go back, because, in this sense, therefore, this is a historical error, that the proper Council of State assigns it legal uncertainty, which represents abolishing grades of three years that six years ago exist and passing them to four years. That's historical mistakes. Mirin, the other day I saw Pere Macias, who was a Generality adviser and a Member of Parliament in Madrid. There's a book that's said Wide, narrow-minded, talking about the Iberian width and the Mediterranean corridor. Well, that wouldn't have to happen to LOSU, would it? and, in this sense, the LOSU wants to impose on us a very high percentage of staff who will work at the contracting universities, when it turns out that the dynamics of the Catalan universities have gone into the contracting line. Innovation and research very often is given outside the university, very often it is given outside our country. Catalan universities are not personally engaged and will not function in a way that grows, as Catalans, foreigners, from other places in the Spanish State. And if we now impose a very high share of employee hiring, we would be limiting university autonomy. And that could be... let's hope it's not like that. And finally, also, the LOSU talks about new functions and obligations of the university and does not concretely finance. And in this sense, then, we should try to fine-tune the financing of public universities. It gives a horizon to a five-year period of the five_per_cent of GDP, but of course, we're pretty much on top of it. And unfortunately we have many news, for example, that the public expenditure actually paid to the Community of Madrid exceeds the assumption. This has been happening for decades. We also have headlines who say: "Public spending and public investment in Catalonia is less than assumed. So unfortunately in universities we're also in this environment. We have holders of military public expenditure that always exceeds the assumed..., the liquidated exceeds the assumed. In college, that doesn't happen, does it? And, therefore, we should try to secure university funding. There is also the question of the growth of seedlings. Fifty per cent of the staff working at universities will retire in two years' time. And this is a very important challenge for us to face. We also have the cost of living. As you know, there are very important cost-of-living differences, and this should be collected or taken into account. For example, a lot of people in Catalonia would not want to come for the differential cost of life, because the price of the goods is higher than in other places; we should try to fine-tune it. And in this sense, therefore, I... would like to listen very much to a word, in the Socialist Group and in the Communal Group, which I have not listened for a while, which is the word "federalism". [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, perfect. All right, I got a minute and a half. Perfect. What is federalism? I quote Joaquín Almunia, who for me is the best Spanish politician of the last twenty years. It's a personal opinion, huh? I was lucky enough to meet him in Brussels. He came a lot to the Catalan Casal de Brussel·les; he presented Jean Monnet's memoirs in Catalan a few years ago; he presented even a book by Aleix Sarri on the crisis in Greece – the European Union in peril – which I made to the prolèg. He was very involved in the Catalan Couple. He said: "Ramon, federalism is to stand in the skin of the other; federalism is to speak the language of the other. I recall the Committees on Economic and Monetary Affairs of the European Parliament that Joaquín Almunia said to me: « Ramon, ask me the question in Catalan, which I understand. This is in the European Parliament's session diary. Too bad there's so few feds in the Spanish State. [[Widow's remorse. Greetings.]] That's too bad! But, well, I'm escorting - I'm escorting -, if there's anything else, Joaquins Almunias... [[remorse of the voice]] No, listen, so, look, federalism means that if Catalonia has a public-private university model with different preferences than there can be in Madrid, that is respected. So good! Here we find ourselves – we find ourselves. [[Greetings.]] And so that the years 2013 and 2014, that we still didn't have the process, let's say, so fast, we to the European Parliament, in the case of Google, to the Commissioner of Competition, that then was Joaquín Almunia, we gave him a lot of canya. You're saying, that... And despite that, he came to the Catalan couple and was a very accessible person. We find this spirit so good! And, therefore, so much for university autonomy respecting the preferences and willingness of Catalan universities in the future. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.11.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, there's the words of the Research and University Advisor, Ms Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.12.0	Well, good morning, President. MPs, MPs; Counsellor, also, thanks for being here; MP Tremosa, thanks also for the inquiry. Surely, this of the Gothic cathedrals... it also made it feel that the Research and University consultancy is at the side of Santa Maria del Mar. Today I wanted to make this inquiry, too, I think it is an opportune moment, about the pre-project of the law of the university system. From this preliminary draft of the law we heard about it through the e-mail of the council and it was published August 31st. The truth is that it's a bill of law that we think has been written a lot since the four-parths of a ministry and that hasn't looked at and looked at each of the agents that make up the university system. As the Member and Councillor Tremosa said, this law of the university system wants to or wants to replace the previous law of universities, and we understand that when there is a law, come to pass a law twenty years later..., the Spanish Government should make a proposal of law..., a proposal of a modern university, which recognizes the different models of university – that is, those universities that are more intensive in research and those universities that are more intensive in teaching – and, therefore, one law that came later should be a rule that has been released to universities to develop and compete with the foundations of an ambitious university, that these institutions have established them. Therefore, we are concerned, because this organic law does not only present no model of university, but is uniforming, centralist. And, therefore, in this erasure that the councillor is working internally, we have the certainty, therefore, that the university system of Catalonia does not feel recognized. This is the reality: to the organic law presented to us by the Spanish Government, the university system of Catalonia does not feel recognized. This lack of recognition I have transferred twice to Minister Castells, and in the same way that I have transferred this lack of recognition of the university system of Catalonia, I have transferred his extended hand to work there. But the reality at today's date is that the university system in Catalonia is not recognizing the organic law of the university system laid down by the Spanish Government. This concern is sincere, and it is a concern that not only does the Research and University Consulting have, but that it is a concern that they share the group of rectors of Catalan universities, of all Catalan universities, and that they have begun to express publicly what their position is to respect this pre-project of law. Therefore, in this sense, the pre-project does not recognize publics or the system of private universities in Catalonia, which have no desire for more work, and which is a characteristic of the Catalan system. And therefore, in this sense, therefore, in this bill we do not only not feel recognized, but that we understand that this university autonomy, that the university students know very well, and that the government the university autonomy does not have to defend it to the letter, but that if you believe it you always have to defend it..., we understand that this organic law also lacks this opportunity to guarantee this university autonomy. Therefore, we must also recognize the good research policies and universities that have taken place in Catalonia during all these years. And this bill of law, so it's a threat, because the Catalan university system doesn't recognize it, right? And, therefore, I think today was also the time to say it, after I've put it down twice already in the ministry. Five aspects that concern us. First – and you have made reference – the policy of the teaching research staff. The LOSU refers only to the working staff; therefore, all researchers from Catalan universities who are directly contracted teachers do not appear in the law. Therefore, this Catalan model is not recognized. And that's obvious we can't give support to it. In addition, it would also be a good model for teaching to capture talent, to recover, to consolidate the most precarious conditions that can also be found at the university. And, therefore, active policies in this sense. It refers to this unique university model, not to those universities that can be more intensive in research or more intensive in teaching. And, therefore, it does not give space to this freedom to develop each of the universities. Social councils, the role of social councils. If we are talking about employability, about this relationship between university and society, about this social function that the university has, there is also a breakdown of the role of social councils. And, in fact, there have also been submissions respecting this LOSU project, because they are not at all pleased with this election system that LOSU is setting up. How this can change, so I say to three generals what are the positions we don't like. The subject of financial limitations. It is curious that since LOSU it has to be the level of funding of Catalan universities, but also that this was not accompanied by guarantees for this funding. And, therefore, from Madrid they tell us what the financing of Catalan universities should be, but... they tell us the financing, but they don't tell us how to do it. I also seem to have an irresponsible point. And, in fact, this year's premise of the lower university ministry and the higher defense, huh? Therefore, well, in this sense, therefore, there is a point of financing that we are also absolutely against. And five, the overregulation. If you read the preliminary draft of the organic law of the university system, it is absolutely regulatory. In fact, when you read it, you don't know if you're reading an organic law or you're reading the states of a university, right? Therefore, what has to be made an organic law has to be a law with general principles, which is allowed to develop, with models of university. And that doesn't work, does it? You have the feeling that you're reading a state of a university. Therefore, the text of the LOSU is excessively detailed, hyperregulatory, and we, in this sense, do not share this view either. It's very uniforming, little open to these differences that exist between the different universities. Therefore, from the concern that the university system does not recognize it, from the concern that it does not guarantee university autonomy, from the concern that there are different aspects of universities, from funding, the teaching staff, the social councils that we do not agree, therefore, the concern is a reality at these times respect the threat of this organic law of the university system. And I'm already telling you that like the Government of the Government of Catalonia, so we're all in front of this bill. But with the same extent before this bill, all the firmness to defend the university system of Catalonia before the threat that it is now proposing, supposes the advance draft of the LOSU. And finally – and I don't like complacency, and I said so, and Congressman Tremosa made reference to it, didn't he? – so, what is the position in the ranks of Catalan universities, what is the position of European fund-raising, what is the uptake of ERCs. We have a good position in the Catalan universities, which obviously need better funding, better scientific infrastructure, to ensure generational networking, and we need this momentum at this point in the Catalan university system. But the Catalan university system is powerful at European level. And so what you don't feel is that if the Catalan university system is powerful at European level, there's a law from the Spanish government that we don't recognize, and we, like the government, give support to. At this stage we are absolutely not there. And then he thought about it. At the present time, the assembly of Rectors, Catalan universities, we are all working on a document, with a base of joint positioning of the Catalan university system, all – all universities – respect this threat that has now been assumed by the LOSU. And my question is... And my reflection here in the Parliament of Catalonia, where we have the Government in mind..., my reflection is: if, like the university system of Catalonia, the rectors are agreeing a joint position before the LOSU, I would like to see the deputies and deputies of the political groups that have representation in this chamber represented without this unity that the university system will have of the LOSU in the Spanish Congress and in the Senate. Therefore, this is the position of the council: that the same unit that we will have the university system, the combination of universities to the defense of the LOSU and of these threats that it supposes to recognize the university system, is transferred to the strength of the political groups that have representation in Madrid to defend the university system of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, is there a reply? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] Okay. [[Asking the Government about the school in Catalonia]] [[300-00052/13]] So let's move on to the division of the order of the day, which is the inquiry to the Government on the school in Catalonia; presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. And to expose the inquiry, has the word Mr. Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.14.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Well, today we have the opportunity to ask the education advisor to discuss various issues that affect our education system. On more than one occasion, Counselor, or, if not on more than one occasion, I have had the opportunity to talk to you and discuss some aspects of our education system, always with answers, I must say, and with all due respect, quite unsatisfactory. I say this because, for example, in a question that I raised and that I will refer you back to this question, to the last Education Committee, you gave me an evasive answer that I hope that, in the quality of our public debate, of our parliamentary debate, you today have decency, in the best of times, I am not saying absolutely that I do not have it on other occasions, but that I have the decency to answer my question that was taken away during the committee when I asked you this very question. Well, I think we in Catalonia have a problem with education from a strictly freedom point of view. We have a problem with freedom. There is a problem of freedom in education in Catalonia; for various questions, but basically affect us these days various aspects of this question. First it's the theme of the concerts. I believe, Mr. Counselor, that you have set up an authentic Croatian against the school in Catalonia. A Croatian who pretends to be, basically, to offer the concerted school, limit, severely restrict its ability to act, its freedom. The concerted school is a fundamental element for an education system that is truly pluralistic, that really respects freedom, with the ability to choose the parents, with this right that we have the parents to choose, to choose the education system that we want for our children. And I believe that this right, which recognizes all international conventions and, of course, the Spanish Constitution, should also be respected by autonomous governments. And from this point of view, I believe that her attitude towards the concerted one is of profound malaise, when not directly of a will to build and restrict her freedom in an absolutely unjustified way. I believe that with the concert in Catalonia..., I believe that the simile is consumable, if more untenable, and I say, I insist, with the will to get a rational debate and it will be about this issue. I believe that there is a clear parallelism between the way the Government of the Generality, our autonomous Government, works towards the concertads and how the communist and socialist regimes worked during the 20th century towards Catholic Church. The strategies to restrict the freedom of Catholic Church during the 20th century by the communist regimes were basically that you could not form priests, you could not touch the bells when volguessy, you could not do any religious activity in the street, you could not proselytize, you could not profane certain offices, you could not build or repair churches, you could collect more taxes than the common people and everything was subject to the administered permission. So this practical, this way of restricting religious freedom in the communist totalitarian regimes, comes together, mutatis mutandis, in the way the Government of the Generality acts towards the concerted teaching in Catalonia. One aspect that these days are very topical is their position towards..., not towards, but against, directly against the differentiated school, which you directly call "segregated school". I think the terms are important, the words are important, and the fact that a parent listens to a school for his child with all the good will, with the logical will that starts from the love that any parent has for his children... I pretend to say that these schools are..., that they secrete by sex, seems to me absolutely less, absolutely unjustifiable, and I think that it is a lack of respect for the parents who learn this education. I told you a deputy from agnosticism and from the idea that I personally don't particularly like this model. I don't like it, I'd say, people this layout. I believe that in a liberal society, in a free society, and in accordance with principles that establish international agreements and also our Constitution, there must be the freedom of couples to choose the center that best suits their moral and religious convictions, also in Catalonia. And this to you, as if you have a vision that, in my opinion, is ordered to a process, to a social engineering project, to a project to adopt the Catalan society in a certain sense..., less this possibility, this ability that all parents should have to choose the education of their children. Precisely, the concerted and, in this case, also the differentiated concerted are guarantees of pluralism, they are guarantees of a truly open society, of a truly free society. And what you're doing with this is absolutely inexhaustible. We believe that the concert should not only not be missed, but that, on the contrary, the concerts should be extended to the post-compulsory stage – it should be expanded to the post-compulsory stage – so that there should be no concerts at the post-compulsory stage and also to the middle and upper levels of professional training which it generates is a great damage to the families who have abetted for this school. Therefore, from this point of view we are manifesting ourselves and we have presented a proposal for law precisely in this line, that what is meant is to guarantee equal opportunities and also the pluralism of a society that is, in many cases, threatened by the lack of pluralism. Look, Mr. Counselor, after I tell you all this, I want to do it, I want to stop it on a question I raised to the last Education Committee. And you told me you didn't know the facts, but you compromised to know them in advance, and you compromised to look at what I gave you. Look, I was actually talking about this. [[The orator shows a book.]] This is a textbook that serves Catalan schools. It's a textbook that says clearly... talk about the gentiles. And he talks about the gentiles..., basically that some in a delusion, let's say, expansionist called « the Catalan Countries, and among them, of course, they serve the català, valencia, palmesa, andorrá, etcetera. I think teaching Catalan children that there is a nation that buys all these places is, if not, an exercise in linguistic nationalism and identity expansion that concerns me. But I'm still more concerned about the other... the second point, which talks about strangers. Look, counselor Gonzàlez, I don't know, honestly, where your parents or grandparents are from. Judging by his last name, and without the desire to despise it at all, it is possible that his parents are not of Olot or that his grandparents are not of Olot or any other Catalan population, but of some other place in Spain, because someone who names himself Gonzàlez probably has family in the rest of Spain. But my father is Madrid. I honestly do not think it reasonable for my children to be taught that their grandfather is a foreigner in their country, that my children are told that the Madridn gentleman is a foreigner in Catalonia. That's absolutely inconceivable. It is, in fact, aberrant and is a process clearly oriented towards social engineering and the division of society. [[Some applause.]] To say that "Madrileño, " madrileny, "extremeny, "Malagueny are foreign gentiles in Catalonia is absolutely infectious. You cannot continue to alienate a part of the population and generate such an uncomfortable situation in Catalan families as you have to assume that this is said in Catalan textbooks. That is why I, Mr Councillor, would ask you today to have the courage to come out here and say either that this, in fact, is nonsense, that this which you teach in Catalonia's textbooks is a veritable misconception, which, moreover, is a huge fallacy, or that you tell me that it is good for you to be told to Catalan children, many of whom have grandparents and parents who are Madridns, who are foreigners. I really believe that we need to be very careful about the idea of alienating, not to say in many cases, our fellow citizens. I insist, I do not want my children to be told that their grandparents – their parents, in some cases – are foreigners. No, not at all. If they were, no problem. Everyone here knows my position on the question of foreigners, on the question of immigrants. But, I insist, Catalonia is a fundamental, integral part of our country, of Spain and, therefore, a Madridn is as national in Madrid as it is in Catalonia. Catalonia is a sentimental part, part of our collective heritage, part of our sentimental heritage, and you have no right to expel the Madriders from Catalonia and to call them foreigners. I would love, Mr Councillor, for you to have the courage to come out here and explain to me, because I think you have had enough time since the last Committee on Education..., and to explain to me this misconception and if this does not seem to you indoctrination in the classrooms. Thank you, Mr. Counselor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the answer, therefore, the word has the advisor of Education, Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.16.0	Thank you, Vice President. MPs, MPs... MP Martin Blanco, as a counselor, it's always a pleasure to come to this chamber and be able to talk about education. As you said, we have done it in committees, we have done it in your plenary. And of all the interventions that your group has made since I'm a counselor, I would say that the norm-new_per_cent always have points in common: either we attack the language – it hasn't come out yet, I suppose it will say later – or we make an indoctrination assumption or we make an attack on freedom. It would be good, from time to time, to have the opportunity to talk, also with you, about how from the Department of Education we are betting not to close groups of children 3 and the demography download. It would be good to be able to speak, also with you, of the will to advance towards zero-three gratuity, and that this government has already assumed the compromise of gratuity for the families of zero-three from the very course 22-23. A very important measure that comes down to equity, equal opportunities, and it's a step forward in gender policies. It would be good to be able to talk, also with you, about the momentum that this department has made in order to ensure that all rural schools in the country, regardless of the economic amount, regardless of the economic motive, can pull forward and operate from the finance department more than eighty percent of rural schools in the country. And this is a country policy. It would also be good to be able to talk, and also with you, about all the way we have to face a very important situation in the education system and in our educational centers, which is this emotional support for our infants, is this emotional support for our young people. It would be good to talk about professional training, where we have made a very important increase in places to ensure that everyone in the ordinary process you want to study format cycles has a place to study format cycles. And also, and obviously yes, of all the better things that we have to implement and that I have undertaken to push forward for the professional formation of this country, in a legislature that must be the legislature of professional formation. And many other topics: teacher stabilization process, inclusive school deployment, student admission decree. But no: you always single-minded; you always end up with supposed conflicts in the Catalan school. I always answer the questions – I always answer the questions –, I never miss the questions. Another thing is that my answers satisfy or do not satisfy the receiver – this is another thing – but I always answer. And, therefore, today, obviously, as I always do, I will also answer it. For what you're doing on the theme of concerts..., this debate – I was commenting on it yesterday, huh? , with the oral questions that were addressed to me – it is not at all about the freedom of choice of families – we guarantee the freedom of choice of families. Now, what we do from the Department of Education and from the Government is that we don't finance public money for educational centers that separate children and children in classrooms. There is no freedom of choice for families: we respect it and we will continue to respect it, as it cannot be in any other way. This freedom of choice for families has a limit, and the limit it has is educational centres that do not discriminate and educational centres that do not secrete. The Catalan education system, as you well know, forms public centres and concerted centres financed with public money. And, therefore, any educational centre in the country that has public money must not discriminate and must not be segregated. You said..., set the example of differentiated schooling. You were explaining it, too, weren't you? I'm going to insist on it again. This is a decision that we... in the next renewal of concerts we will not renew these centers, because the fact of separating children and children from the classrooms does not invent ourselves, in the band that it is a situation that does not respond to what happens to all the social spheres and the spheres of society and the environments in which we live. But what they tell us is scientific evidence, they tell us a lot of scientific studies, that what it does is accentuate certain stereotypes, mark different roles – that's not what we make up, huh? – and somehow legitimize sexism. And, therefore, before this situation, what we do is: at a time when we have legal support, political support and social support, we take this decision convinced that it will go forward. Legal support, because there is a law passed at the Congress of Deputies with an absolute majority; political support, because this same chamber, with all the smaller groups PP, VOX and Ciutadans, has placed itself in place to pull forward this non-renewal of concerts, and social support, because at the latest this CEO more than eighty-five percent of the citizens is clearly manifested in order not to finance, in order not to contribute public money to this type of center. Therefore, we find ourselves with a situation of broad consensus. Given a broad consensus situation, public money cannot be used to pay for centres separating children and children in classrooms. You also made reference to the banner... no, banner, no, you haven't said anything about the banner yet. Make reference to the text book – that's the same, make reference to the text book. Political fan... I guess they're aware of that, huh? I don't want to teach anyone anything, every life, on the way it goes, after what it goes through. But the common denominator you have is that you're a political fan of anecdotalism and decontextualization. Agafen a fragment of a book, the tree of context and here they are invented, drawing upon a conspiracy theory and an indoctrination theory. Actually, I did look at it, didn't I? , after the other appearance. The text does not say exactly what you say you say – the text does not say exactly what you say you say you say. That said, I will repeat to you as many times as anyone else: there is no indoctrination in Catalan schools, that is clear, there is no. For many times that you say, for many times that you repeat a lie, it will not end up becoming reality. Repeating a lie doesn't make me feel right. Repeating a lie doesn't make what they say fit what happens. The schools and institutes, in fact, the objective they have, basically, the objective of educating our young people and our children, is to educate competitively. To educate competitively means to educate with knowledge, to educate in knowing how to do things, to educate in living together and to educate in living, to know how to cope with the situations facing us. And from this learning and from this education, what we're clear about is that the goal of education, and it's nothing else, is to be able to train infants and young people so that they can make the best decisions in their lives. And in order to make the best decisions in his life, they have to make some critical sense, they have to make some sense that they can have this ability to analyze the situations, value them and make different decisions. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.17.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, has the word the deputy Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.18.0	Thank you, Counselor. I must admit, Mr. Counsellor, that you have an aplom worthy of commendation, because coming out here to say that what I have taught you does not say what I say it says... I'm teaching him and I'm teaching him again. It's just that it's a really amazing thing. Foreign Gentiles: Madrid, Extreme, Malagasy. And you tell me, between... well, I understand that you're telling me that I'm not telling the truth or lying. Hey, really, I'm teaching you this here. I understand you don't want to answer. But really, stop hiding your head under the wing, when what is happening in Catalonia with regard to indoctrination in the classrooms, with examples like this one, is really alarming. So don't tell me... at least don't tell me you answer my question. Say to me: "Hey, I'm going to make you a game of trilers and you either swallow it or you don't. But in any case, don't tell me I'm lying, because I'm teaching you. I'll show you again, counselor. Come out here and tell me: "Is it normal that in a country like Spain, in an autonomous community like Catalonia, we have textbooks where our children are taught that Madrid, Malagasy and Extreme are foreigners? Is that reasonable? Would it be reasonable in France? Would it be reasonable in Italy? Would it be reasonable anywhere else in the world? No, no, It is only possible in a place where public debate presides over an identity ultranationalism of a clearly xenophobic and supremacist character. That's possible because of this. This role that I teach you and that you say I lie, even though I teach you the faithful and of course not adulterated evidence..., you cannot deny reality. Let's see, opinions are, of course, opinionable and questionable, but the facts are not. In the face of the facts, opinions are not allowed, Mr Gonzàlez. It's just that I'm really telling you. Look at him. I'm telling you, look at him. I give it to you and you yourself come out here and give us an interpretation of the text. He tells us: Do you think it reasonable for children in Catalan schools to be taught that Madridns, extremists and Malagasy are foreigners? Look, it's absolutely amazing. This is already going to be a hit by this Parliament, that I come out here and tell you that you are doing grotesque things. But it's, again, grotesque. I really don't understand. I wish you'd answer me. But don't tell me you answer me and then don't answer me, because it's a haircut. Otherwise... I didn't tell you about the tongue today. Man, really, let's see, Mr Gonzàlez, what happens to the language in Catalonia is truly alarming. It does not happen anywhere else in our civilized and democratic environment, of course. There is no other sub-state or autonomous community or region or land within the German Länder, where official education throughout the country is excluded from public education. This is aberrant. It is said by someone who, as you all know, because I believe that the movement is shown to be moving, defends the validity, the vigour, the need to teach our children – mine, to start – in love with Catalan culture, the Catalan language and, of course, also the culture of the whole of Spain, which includes, by the way, Catalan language and culture. Now, do not tell me that what you are doing here is a normal thing, because I insist: it has no match; what happens in education in Catalonia with regard to language has no match with any other place in the civilized world. The fact that Catalan is the only language to carry is possible only because in Catalonia we live under a regime that gives politics a clearly totalitarian conception. Therefore, I had not spoken to him about the tongue. You brought a prepared intervention, but it is not consistent to say to me that we always talk about the same thing. And, in fact, he puts it on a silver platter for me to end up talking about the tongue – indeed. I think that..., I insist on what I said before: I don't know if it will seem normal to you that children who start early childhood education, children of P3 who have Spanish as their mother tongue, don't hear in school a single word of their mother tongue. That's very unreasonable. Look, I'm telling you an anecdote; I'm taking the opportunity to tell you an anecdote. When I had to look at schools for my children, I went to look at the French High School. And in the French High School, a very reasonable man, the director of children's education, explained the following to me. Well, I see gestures... I'd like it to be taken into account also from time to time. In the French High School, the director of the French High School told us something as reasonable as this: "Look, we are aware that we educate children in a mother tongue that is not theirs. In Catalonia, children are educated, in many cases – in many cases; in fact, in most cases – in a mother tongue that is not theirs. And the director of children at the French High School said to me: "And as we are aware of it, we enable educational spaces, we enable teaching hours for children to unfold naturally also in their mother tongue. That's what the head of the French High School's children's education told me. And I thought: "How sad, how worrying, how serious is the fact that in Catalonia you have to go to the French High School to be told something as reasonable as that: that our children have the right to listen in their school both Catalan and Castilian. Regardless of their mother tongue, we must recognize both languages, the two languages of the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.19.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. So now, for the counselor's reply, the word has the education counselor, Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.20.0	Thank you. Well, he couldn't resist, could he? In the end, he talked about language. He knew it, he knew it, he couldn't resist it. [[Widow's remorse.]] So... I was already surprised that I didn't do it – I was already surprised that I didn't do it. In fact, I will take advantage of... not so much the intervention I had prepared, because I do not need to prepare the intervention of the language, but to speak to it. And as long as it is. You said: "It seems unbelievable to me, it seems incredible to me... It seems like the incredible things... To me what seems incredible is that they continue to lie. Keep lying day after day. That's what's most incredible, and they represent the citizens. Well, listen, I think in the background you know, huh? , that there is no indoctrination to Catalan schools, but they have to play this paper. So each one, well, as a result of what he does, as a result of what he says and as a result of what he does. Mr. Martín Blanco, for what he does to language, here what happens to Catalonia is that we have a model of Catalan school and you don't like it. What happens in Catalonia is that the Catalan school model has proved itself to be a successful model over the years, over the years. But it is a success model, because it guarantees equal opportunities, guarantees equity and guarantees social cohesion. On the subject of language, you have come to talk about cultural apartheid and language dictatorship in the classroom. And that can't be allowed. They cannot consent because they whiten a word like dictatorship; they whiten a word that has barely lived in Catalonia for many years, a situation that has lived in Catalonia for many years. The model of school in catalá emerges from the consensus of this parliamentary chamber. The Catalan school model emerges from the consensus and debates of the Catalonia Education Law of the year 2019. There is no tax, but what we do is apply a model of consensus with broad social support. As much as you obviously don't like them. And this essential linguistic consensus is maintained, even today, more visible than ever, as the results of the elections are shown. There are no families or students assigned to the Catalan education system for a reason of language. Let it be already – let it be already. For many times I repeat it – I told you before – it won't be true, it won't turn into a real fact. In any case, the only ones who have dedicated themselves to assigning and assigning members of the educational community are you, when they are not so much dedicated to sharing in social networks the photo of names and acquaintances of teachers who were accused of this indoctrination as much as they are obsessed with. And not only that, but that, once absolved by the courts, they did not have the decency to apologize. In the Catalan education system – and they show the results, the tests of basic skills – what is really important is the learning of languages. Better language. And as long as it is. Better language. It's rich to be able to learn many languages. And, therefore, this learning in the basic skills that tells us is that, at the end of the quarter of ESO, all the students of the country come up with knowledge of Catalan language, with knowledge of Spanish language and knowledge of English, which we need to go further, which we need to improve and which we need to take a step further. And as long as it is. Therefore, there is no linguistic problem in the Catalan education system. And if you want to change the Catalan language system, you might have to win some elections, and it doesn't look like that, when you've gone from thirty-six deputies to six. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.21.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Proposal for a resolution setting up a study committee on the deployment of an inclusive education system to Catalonia]] [[252-00005/13]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the proposal for a resolution to create a study committee on the deployment of an inclusive education system to Catalonia. This proposal, as you know, has been presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the Parliamentary Group Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning and the Parliamentary Group of In Common We can. As agreed at the last meeting of the Board of Spokesmen, there is no provision for the intervention of parliamentary groups at this item on the agenda. We can therefore proceed to the vote. I have to ask, therefore, whether this motion for a resolution can be approved by consent. [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] Okay. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.22.0	We therefore begin the vote on the motion for a resolution creating a committee of study on the deployment of the inclusive system to Catalonia. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution establishing this committee was adopted with 122 votes in favour and 11 votes against. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the exercise of the competence of public security]] [[302-00034/13]] Let's go to the next item on the order of the day, the new item: motion following the question to the Government about the exercise of the competence of public security. It was introduced by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, the deputies who leave the room doing it in silence. To expose her, Mr Matías Alonso says.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.23.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Because there is a reality, that is that the situation facing public security in Catalonia is a matter of full topicality, it is a concern for many of the representatives of the citizenry, at least for six of the eight parliamentary groups, for 87,4_per_cent of the representatives of the citizenry that we currently make up this Parliament. It is true that concern is neither univocal nor uniform. It is no less true that the groups that have formed the present Government are going to tow, probably at the request of the Government of the Generalitat, and in this plenary they have conducted two inquiries which seek to reduce in some way the impact of the motions that we will be discussing this morning on government action, which, on security issues, as in many others, we think leaves much to be desired. In this regard, I would like to make a reference to the contradictory messages that are being launched regarding the principle of authority for the police, as we have seen this past week, for example, in the General Courts, or we have already seen on the occasion of very serious altercations in the streets of Barcelona, where even representatives of parliamentary groups and leaders of political parties represented in that Parliament, because they encouraged citizens to have these incivic behaviors and in some cases they were violent. The motion tabled today by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, which we are debating and voting today, emphasises the essence of public security as a guarantee of rights and freedoms for all citizens. The counselor insists a lot especially on the weakest – of course; also. The democratic laws that form our constitutional framework, which underpin our social and democratic rule of law, implemented and interpreted by judges and courts, by the judiciary outside party interests, and the continued, effective and proportionate management of public security by responsible administrations are indeed the best guarantee of the free exercise of rights and freedoms by citizens as a whole. The laws and their enforcement by all are the best guarantee of rights for the weak and the security forces and bodies are in charge, with the use of force if necessary, of guaranteeing their public rights and freedoms in accordance with the law. Our motion seeks to highlight this democratic reality by recognizing the importance of public security as an essential service for the free exercise of rights and freedoms, by appreciating the enormous importance of the work of the members of the security forces and corps, starting with the Mossos d'Esquadra, but without leaving aside any of those in charge of that essential service. And because there are systematic violations of fundamental rights in the field of public universities today, it invites Parliament to regret and condemn the coercion, insults and aggressions suffered by the students of S'ha Afinat! , that they do not commune with the mill wheels of the republiqueta of dessert gelat, for the mere fact of showing publicly their dissent with the political position that is intended to be hegemonic in Catalonia and that they do not hesitate to trample fundamental rights, while claiming them for themselves when no one violates them. This motion urges the Government of the Generalitat to strengthen the means and to protect the rights of the agents of the Corps of Mossos d'Esquadra, without claudiating against the populist demands of the left, sometimes totalitarian, which aims to condition the commendable work of a democratic police to their partisan interests, leaving aside the legality and the general interest. We also demand that the Government make a constant and public defence of the work of police officers in their role of maintaining and ensuring public security. We call for effective and proportionate management of uncontrolled concentrations where alcohol is consumed on the public road and which too often end up in public disorders. And now that the city of Barcelona and the neighbours of the district of Sant Andreu have two years of collective scorn with the regularized courts on the avenue Meridiana, whose summoners, under the magic umbrella of the ANC, which opens in pairs the slots to the Administration of Security of the Generalitat, are allowed no longer to cut that main artery every day, but also, as they have done this same Saturday 16th of October, they walk in their desire through the city cutting other main roads with the political connivance of this disgovernment that we all suffer, we ask that this farce be ended. Counselor, that's enough. If it is not able to guarantee the rights and freedoms of all the citizens, not only of those who can be of their own rope, fold. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.24.0	Thank you, Congressman. It has the word to defend the papers presented, for a time of five minutes also, in the first place the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Advance, Mr. Ramon Swordler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.25.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, as the Member proposing this motion to the House of today's House would say, six times, a twenty-five per cent of the order of the day deals with security in one way or another, with the overthrow of the public order, with the delinquency related to the furthest channel and with the questions we have asked. Therefore, it is a matter of obvious concern and of different and diverse approaches. There are spaces for confluence and we will look for them, and I honestly believe that we will find them, and other spaces in which each one, therefore, will mark what differences we have and mark what their vision is and who their proposals are. Our position respects the motion that is presented I will not be able to explain it in each of the points, but as we will have four opportunities to rise to the rostrum, but I would like to fix myself, in this case, in two very concrete aspects, that it is the right to the demonstration and the ad hoc case of the Meridiana, with the benevolence that after, therefore, the Group Mixt makes another proposal and would like to subtend everything that refers to the police authority and the defense of the Cos de Mossos. Therefore, I will divide the time so as to say the maximum name of things. With regard to the motion that stands, yes, we agree to recognize the importance of public security, which we conceive of as a social policy, to recognize the importance of the tasks that the police do, starting with the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, Urban Guard and following for all the police working in our home. And obviously we condemn – and therefore we will vote for it – the events that took place on October 6th at the Autonomous University of Barcelona, as a limitation of the right to freedom of expression, in this sense, which we condemn with firmness. We agree to obviously equip the assumptions, etc. But I'm going a little bit to the essence, because we've got a few minutes. In relation to the topic of demonstrations and concentrations and others. I take it that we will not support the new point, which is to review the licensing procedure, because it makes a strange bar. There is no administrative authority procedure rule, there is an organic law, because this is a fundamental right and, therefore, it has relatively little deployment, which clearly guarantees the right to the demonstration and the right to the protest, because it is Law 9/83 of 15 July, regulating the right to the demonstration. And we think it's already well-explained and well-contained. Another thing is that it has to apply well– another thing is that it has to apply well. Therefore, we are not people who are in favour of saying: "Listen, let us modify this or authorize a demonstration depending on who asks it. We had, from the start, the assumption of destroying during a demonstration will hardly call for authorization. These facts become parasitic about manifestations many times and, therefore, we, in this sense, believe that we must be democraticly speaking, very pulsating at the time of separation. To guarantee a fundamental right – to guarantee it – and, yes, to be expeditious and round with the content of the violence when this is produced. And one more thing – and in this sense we are very critical and we would like to make it clear – that the Administration must also assume its responsibility for this. And we honestly believe that in the case of the Meridiana the Administration did not assume its responsibility and allowed to punish the barri de la Meridiana, all users of a main route of access and entry and exit from the city of Barcelona and residents. It has no name that for so long, every day, there exist as there are police reports both of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and of the Urban Guard, that they do not ask in any case, no of them, to prevent the expression and the right to the demonstration, but to manage it..., and this is the competence of the Administration. And that's why you can't change the law; that's why you can read the organic law well, that you can obviously respect the right to the demonstration and allow the right to mobility and not have all of a bar, all of a trade, all of a city and all of the users of one way punished. And, in this sense, we have indeed put a note – and this is what the Commission would like to point out – that in relation to this aspect of the Meridian and to other things we have counted before thirty days, here in Parliament, from which has been the processing of these police acts which have so often been accepted and which have not resulted in dispatches. Because it's a serious issue that I could have avoided, if it is the case – let's expect the results –..., it could have been as wrong as at least in prevarication and in other crimes, because we believe that it has made a leave, in any case, of responsibilities, that we don't know if it is provoked by a politicized view of the issue. And we would hardly go if some manifestations could be perched in time depending on who you do them and the others not. Right to the demonstration yes, but also respect the rights of the citizens. And you can't punish territories and honest barrels like that, and so, in this sense, be clear and expedient. And we appreciate the fact that Citizens have accepted this task of ours, that we also have the petition that we have already made in their moment of seeing these acts and seeing what processing they have had from the perspective of expedients. Thank you, Madam President; thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.26.0	Thank you, Congressman. So now, for the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Ms. Isabel Lázaro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.27.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. The Parliamentary Group of Citizens presents a motion urging the Government of the Generalitat to carry out eleven proposals aimed at improving public security, preventing disorder, vandalism and criminal acts on our streets, with the recognition and reinforcement of the security forces and bodies, especially the Mossos d'Esquadra. For our VOX Parliamentary Group, security is absolutely paramount. It is a public good that must be protected. That is why we have so far recorded five motions for resolutions for debate in committee. And my colleague, Mr Macián, will present today a motion with twenty-one concrete proposals that I hope will be adopted, because they will help to ensure security, improve life and coexistence among all Catalans; it is of interest to all – for all of us here – except for some group that advocates violence and subversion of the constitutional order. The Mossos d'Esquadra and in general the state security forces and bodies suffer from the lack of support of the Government of the Generalitat and its constant contempt, prefer to be condescending to violent groups. We are all aware of the permissibility of illegal cuts on the Avenida Meridiana de Barcelona or on the Avenida Roma de Tarragona, two arteries of the cities; illegal cuts that are allowing for about two years by preventing the actions of the agents themselves. Political leaders are instrumentalizing the Mossos using them as a tool for their secessionist purposes. This reality has led to the loss of authority of the Mossos d'Esquadra, as stated by the spokesman for the Mossos USPAC trade union on 11 October, in an article published by the newspaper El País. The same article says that if Brimo – I quote literally – « fulfills its obligations they know that they will have problems and will be questioned politically. I want to take advantage of this opportunity and from this atril congratulate and thank the mossos d'équadra de base, those who are day by day on the street struggling with the worst of society, for their magnificent professionalism, even knowing that the governing partners of their bosses want to end them. There is no greater affront to placing as chairman of the Commission of Study of the Police Model those responsible for the streets, the CUP. Thank you that we extend to our National Police, to our Civil Guard and to all the local police forces throughout Catalonia that in recent months have suffered attacks, insults, and have been permanently disallowed. Since the beginning of walking the government of Aragonès have been questioned and abandoned by the separatist elites, but they know that they will always have the support and support of VOX, which has as a priority to regain security in our neighborhoods. One comment, Mr Alonso – Mr Martín – we intended to vote 'yes to the eleven proposals put forward by your group, but, frankly, it seems to us a shame to accept the amendment by the separatists, referring to Catalonia with the term 'country'. In VOX we like to call things by their name. [[Greetings.]] Catalonia is a magnificent region of a great country called Spain. They will have to explain to their voters because they consider Catalonia a country. Don't give up, don't stop giving up the cultural battle, it's important. Mr. Martin admitted it in his previous appearance. The words, Mr Martín, are important, the nomenclatures are important, they do not give up, give up the cultural battle. Communists, anti-systems and separatists are reminded that the police do not exercise violence, exercise the legitimate force conferred on them by law. And it exercises it against violent criminals in order to safeguard public order and ensure coexistence. Security is paramount, gentlemen, and without security there is no freedom. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.28.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the word "Mrs. Irene Negre".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.29.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, it's an honor to address you for the first time in this Faristol. Once more we are in front of a young man mixing in an interested and partisan way many things. Go ahead and support Junts for Catalonia to the police units of our country. All rape must be condemned and all police action disproportionate, studied and punished. Now, you in your line, always seeking to politicize the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, as other groups have already done in this chamber, provoking, with proposals for a resolution to the general policy debate to be voted on en bloc, problems of credibility and confidence in the cos. Politically, they came out fine, but they stopped, because they didn't calculate the damage they would cause to the body at the level of credibility. From this Faristol I want to send our support to the police of Catalonia, who work for our security, for the social order and for the defense of our rights and freedoms. [[Greetings.]] The Squad Squad Squad is not a subsidiary police officer, as you want to say in the motion. The Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad For what it does at point 2, put 'Spain and democracy' in the same sentence as it does at point 2. Democratic states refer to pacts. The masked dictatorial states take the voters, rob the ballot boxes, take the people of civil society and political leaders, have political exiles and a lot of reprisals. For what happens to the UAB, we reject the tense situation that was experienced on the 6th of October at the university campus and we regret the ideological instrumentalization that is made of university campuses by some parties, which eclipses the academic and research activity that end universities. Young people are free to defend their ideas of respect. And the policies we have to be responsible, listen to them and give solutions to their problems. You, however, ran together with your friends from VOX and PP to go out to the photo and scald the atmosphere. The Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra has many needs that must be met, trasllades and traballades from the Department of Interior. And together we have the firm commitment to work to improve their needs, both material and professional. We share that we must not cause any fissure in the credibility of the work of the Mossos d'Esquadra, but, as always, you must give him the partisan touch to make him believe that the political leaders are not at his side. You too, as political leaders, should set an example and not bring motions in this House that question the support of this government in the pocket of our security. But as we do not deprive freedom of opinion, here we are debating and defending whatever we want. For what he does to the botellots and the incivic ducts derived from the same, we can share it, but a very thorough analysis of all the causes that cause these behaviors has to be done. Since the Department of Health, there have been long-term actions between the drug plan and behavioral addictions 2019-2023, which count on the gathering of all the key actors who have also collaborated in their writing. This was approved by the Commission on Drugs in July 2020. The various departments of the Generality, local administrations, members of Parliament, the Barcelona Public Health Agency and the professionals of the services participate in this committee. And finally, the pasty wax: prohibit mobilizations and concentrations. The mobilizations to Meridiana have provoked you, sirs, and also other political groups of this chamber that were accomplices of 155 and the dismantling of this house and the Government of Catalonia, as well as the imprisonment of political prisoners and the exile of President Puigdemont and part of his legitimate government, voted for the people of Catalonia and with the majority support of this chamber. [[Greetings.]] In Catalonia, we continue to vote for independence, which is what bothers them. That's why repression doesn't stop. And while there is repression there will be social reaction. You don't want the people to express their complaints and claim their rights. If he didn't always fight off the street, today I couldn't vote or represent the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia in this chamber. This government will never abolish a right or freedom from a city of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.30.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. For the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word of the deputy Núria Picas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.31.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, now we start with a battery of public security motions that, as I read them, every time they surprise me more. I quote from the Member of Parliament Matías Alonso at the end of October: "No compromise is made to maintain the prestige and morale of the Mossos d'Esquadra. They feel that since the Administration of Catalonia his professionalism and democratic compromise with security is in doubt. Liar! "Despite the chronic miscarriage of the media, the Squadron Mosses are left behind to ensure public order and we despise them. Liar! « Until when will they continue to question the democratic compromise of the Mosso d'Esquadra? I've never doubted him. Expressions that do not fit reality and that want, as always, to put us in evidence. But always be before you to deny it so many times as you need it. In this chamber, we have listened to various times and expressed ourselves actively, passively and never tired of, supporting the Mosos d'Esquadra and the rest of the bodies of the Government of Catalonia, the compromise that we have to make of this a police that acts in an integral way, that is close, democratic, to the service of the citizenry and that guarantees, in short, the free exercise of rights and individual and collective freedoms, as expressed by the Member of Parliament El Homrani this past day. We know that it's been a very hard year, already told by Councilman Elena, probably the hard month in the last 20 years, and so the experts say, where coordination between bodies and security forces has been key to ensuring the good management of public space, the night of the night and to ensuring the management of a cove that has targeted all of us. And you tell us that we are irresponsible because we guarantee the security of our country. And it's not like that. And as long as we guarantee the security of our country! And as long as there's coordination between all the devices! And as the counselor said, it's our government's will so that's it. And as the counselor once again said, to be on the side of the police of Catalonia it is not only manifest with words, but also manifest with facts, and facts found, that it is inverted– we have said this by active and passive. We have repeated this many times: facts and not words – giving support, resources, renewing equipment, material, new calls, etc. That's doing it with facts and concretions. On the points that you have put in your motion today, our parliamentary group, together with the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, we have presented five points to your motion, of which the first has been dealt with and the fourth accepted. For what he does to point 2 of his motion, we would like to thank the Ciutadans Group for not using the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra partisanly. Using the recognition they deserve and not by the back door, forcing us to raise the Spanish nation, which is what you do. Do you know why the Squad Moissons are angry with Catalan policies, with the policies of this Parliament in Catalonia? So precisely for this, because some of you use them for your causes and to make low-flying politics. With respect to point number 5 [[some applause]] ..., respects point 5, I do not doubt that we will never leave behind a movement of squadrons that during their work is attacked or injured. The department will always be on its side and will guarantee its legal defence, without any doubt, and now with more guarantees than ever, extending the self-defence of members of the political soul. We are fed up that for a series of unfair feelings to protesters is questions the right to defend the members of the police of the Cos de Mossos. And with the changes we've introduced, we've got this. And it is clear that his proposal intends to put the Mosses back in the trigger. They will not find us at the expense of the criminalization that you are making of the independence movement and of the entities and organizations that defend and legitimately claim the struggle for freedom and a country of rights. They will not find us before the limitation or restriction of speech rights such as the right of manifestation, the right of assembly, as you retreat at point 11 and have precisely agreed with VOX. And, by the way, Mrs. Lázaro Pina, you stopped giving lessons of father-sucking oil when four days ago you were calling for the suppression of the Squad's Cos de Mossos. That's a lot of dying. [[Greetings.]] And that is why, and finally, we will vote in favour of Point 1, of the 4, of the 8; we will abstain from the 7th and the rest of the vote will be negative. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.32.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Then again, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the CUP, Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.33.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, Madam President. It begins or has begun what we could call a Greek tragedy in three acts, with these three extreme right-wing motions competing in rancism, racism, conservativeism, right-wing violations and cries for a democratic order that has very little. PP, Citizens and the extreme right try today, again, to mark the agenda with motions that, under the false flag of freedom and security, have a common and shared objective, which is less freedom and security. Frankly, I plan on any collection, entity or project of which the trifachito wants to become its sole advocate. And I plan them because the one who defends them, gives it to them. Every new point they have in their resolutions causes, as I say, to push the price of the pa. And it's that your motions are nothing more than a barrage of cries to criminal hardening, political persecution and prohibition. And there in the middle hangers put in place measures that, legitimately, they can claim from the police. What a pity all of you do to these collections! It is, therefore, about three acts of the same tragedy in which, with some nuances, this yes..., between the classist proposals and which encourage the social inequalities of the conservative right until clearly racist proposals and absolutely contrary to the democracy of the extreme right. That's right, in each of the motions, versions and actions we find that old receipt of the hard hand so that we can pursue and continue to impoverish the majority of this society with impunity; work because the richest are still richer and that, at the same time, the people remain silent while pursuing inequalities. In any case, even if we can find a positive part, this tragedy announced. It seems that in this Pleth and in the following we can speak of security, a question for us absolutely phonenal and key. That's right, when we talk about security, we don't talk about the security of small sections of society because it's still rich, we don't talk about the security of your four friends or the four backseats; we talk about the security of the entire population, we talk about the security of the people and the security of the community. And, therefore, I think that you and I care the least about this issue. And it's that no more – never – for more resources than you need, there will be enough police and no more resources dedicated to security to stop the protests against the model of society that you defend, nor to avoid the crimes resulting from the inequalities of the models of society that you defend and that you want to impose. And it is that in the past decades we have witnessed a spectacular worldwide expansion of the capacity and intensity of police activity, which has increased in a general way. There is more police than ever dedicated to vetting for respect for laws, which, more than ever, is translated into high levels of enterprise, economic exploitation and abuse, the fruit of this unequal system in which we live. This expansion..., the increase in the power of the police is absolutely and intimately linked to the combination of political, economic and successive crises that we are patenting in capitalist societies and that suppose this increase in inequality and that suppose this increase in espola by a minority over a majority. And when we talk about law enforcement, we're talking about a reduction in benefits, an increase in the price of the most basic services, like the light, a theft of housing on the part of the benches and backs, etc. Now, for these robbers from their motions, he'll ask for neither more resources nor more police. And if we're talking about security, we also need to talk about security and insecurity perception. These three motions, and in general the interventions that the three groups are making, seem to be sponsored by companies selling alarms and private security. They'll tell us which pre-blessings they have with them. And it is that, unfortunately, the feeling of insecurity can differ in many cases from social reality and have more to do with information manipulation or with certain interests that are not neutral, and in no case do they have the will that people, people or communities live with more security. Time forces this first act to end here, but we will continue with this tragedy. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.34.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. So now, for the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, has the word Mr. Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.35.0	Thank you, Vice President. Well, in this first place that we're debating today about security, you basically do three things, huh? The first is a recognition of the importance of public safety and of the tasks that the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra develops. Well, we agree, not in the terms of their original wording, obviously; yes, with the transaction they have reached with the governing groups. Why isn't it smaller, the change, huh? Your title is "Motion on the exercise of competence in public security," and the first thing you see is that this is a competence that we have in Catalonia by statute and that in Catalonia the integral police are the Squadron Mosses. Fortunately, this is correct with the transaction. And, therefore, we will vote in favour of this first point. Now, just for the sake of democracy, we believe that what it is to be able to assess and be able to account for the combination of police actions. And that's why we believe that what is needed is an external, independent mechanism, so that we can assess these actions and account for them so that we can just improve the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. Clearly, and I hear you say that, if one analyses the police actions of the past few years, the episodes that we have experienced on the part of the police assembly – therefore, also on the part of the Mossos d'Esquadra – but especially on the part of the National Police and the Civil Guard the U of October and also on the part of some of these bodies and for the Mossos d'Esquadra in the manifestations of the sentience, etc., if one analyzes these facts, if one also analyzes the keys of the State, the lack of separation of powers or the politicization of the dome of the judiciary, man, therefore, I feel you say that I know hard, but I do not believe that Spain can say itself as one of the most democratic nations of the world today, without anything else. That said, the second thing you do in this young man – I have to say that with a little thick – is to plant some better for the body, and here we share some, certainly, basically those, therefore, that are planted in more generic terms and that ask for more resources for the body, huh? Actually, the counselor, the other day, he told us, didn't he? So, as with the viscous flaps now two years ago, it went from a premise to the department – to a better number of materials, etc. – from EUR 300_million to one of EUR 130, and as it was held over time – also supported flaps by different governments of the Generality. But in any case, what they are showing is that the resources available in the past few years have been much smaller, and so it is obvious that more resources are being used to provide the services. And, therefore, we agree on this. And the third thing you're doing, and with a much larger size in this young man, is criminalizing, criminalizing practically everyone who thinks different from you. Why do they talk to us from the populist demands of the left-wing reaction to political leaders who, according to you, do not go for the body, to young people who are partying and who are also criminalizing, people linked to different political and associative movements, the CDRs, which is manifested before the Via Laietana or any police equipment – if they do not like them, then who is the caller, right? -, etcetera. It is certain that in some of the transactions that have come to the Socialist Party, the writing of the motion will take a little bit and, look, it will even make in some points that we thought we would vote against, so we will abstain. I'm basically referring to those who raised better by the body, which, as I said, are not masses in this young man. But, obviously, not in many others, because the honourable Member knows that we have a deep discrepancy about the concept of security, about the necessary policies of security and even about the police model. Because for us security passes to guarantee rights and freedoms, not to restrict them, as it is in this case. For us, security policies must take an integral look – as, in fact, we plant in our motion in this own Ple – to address some of the problems and to address the main needs that we now have, which are the expectations of the future for our young man. And for us the Squadron Mosses Cos has to be modernized in terms of democratisation. And that means more resources, but more resources for transparency, for accountability, for independent and external evaluation, like I gave them before. And just the study commission that we're going to start working in this room on our own time, on our own days, will make it possible to do all this. You, on the other hand, the receptions that set us up are the usual ones, they are the hard ones, you disallow demonstrations, and even you set limits to the right of assembly, that is, even now you want to restrict the right of assembly. Obviously, we will vote against these points. As well – I am already anticipating myself in front of the proper motions – we will vote against all those points that incorporate extreme right-wing statements or transactions. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.36.0	Thank you, Congressman. So now, for the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.37.0	Yes; thank you very much, Vice President. Well, talking about the last ones has some drawbacks, and it is that you are listening, therefore, to some of the barbarities that are said from this rostrum. Mr. Parés already looks at me with certain [[the speaker laughs]] irony, because he knows I'm going to tell him something. And, of course, yes. I don't know... I think you handle data – and I tell you sometimes in commission – that the rest of humanity doesn't. That ranking that has now been taken from the joke saying « the low levels of democracy that Spain has, where does it come from, Mr Parés? Because I remind you that in the democracy index developed by The Economist – which seems to me to be a fairly reliable source – of 167 countries analysed, Spain occupies the number nineteen at the level of democracy. So, please, I ask you to be rigorous with the data and not to come here to say barbarities, which, on the other hand, are already used to us, but that is not why it ceases to be less serious. I also listened to Mr Pellicer, who referred to my intervention without him having yet done it – I don't know if he has any sort of fortune-telling dowry, but, well, nothing happens. The truth is that it seemed to me to be a very irresponsible intervention, very irresponsible on your part. That you come to teach freedom lessons when the only freedom you understand is yours and that of those who think like you and the rest we don't exist, so the truth, what you want me to tell you, it makes it quite difficult for me to digest. I understand you don't like the motion. But, look, if you don't like the motion, if the CUP group doesn't like the motion that my group introduced, the one that the rest of the groups introduced this morning, I think we've done something right. Because what you think of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps we know about leftovers – we know about leftovers. And what seems to me to be a tragedy – this is not in three acts, but in one – is the Department of the Interior and the Government of the Generalitat take note of its demands regarding the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps. That's a capital tragedy – capital tragedy. And believe me, we're going to work so you don't get away with it. I told Mr Elena, the first time we had the opportunity to speak in the Committee on the Interior, that the intention of my group, the intention of the People's Group, was to work to support the Mossos d'Esquadra, to get improvements for the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps, and that is what we are doing. And, in fact, in my motion, in the motion that we present a little later, I will have the opportunity to speak and to enter into concrete, with historical demands and demands of the Mossos d'Esquadra, which have long been waiting for, which have been promised to them by their department at this time and in previous times, and which cannot wait any longer. That's what we do. If the Lord of the UPC doesn't like it, then I insist, something must be doing right. With regard to the motion, we are going to vote in favour of most of the points. There are, of course, some where we cannot agree, and, unfortunately, point 1, with that amendment by the Government, is unacceptable. You cannot buy the framework of the Government, you cannot speak of a country to refer to Catalonia, because yes, words matter, because yes, language matters – you have already told them from another group as well. Nor can we agree with point 5, which speaks of strengthening the legal defense of the Corps of Mossos d'Esquadra, because it is contradictory with what we are asking in our motion and with what the Corps of Mossos d'Esquadra also asks, which is to have a specialized body of lawyers as they had until Mr Elena wanted it not to be so. And we have already said this: on a question of volume and on a question of specialization. As you will understand..., it makes me not with the head, but as you will understand, therefore, it is not the same volume of aggression that the officials of the Corps of Mossos d'Esquadra, as any other official, suffer. And if you want, we talk about statistics, but I don't think there's a lot of complaints from other bodies. Therefore, they need that specialized body, I insist, for reasons of specialty and also for reasons of volume. And another point we are not going to support is point 11, which talks about disallowing meetings, rallies and demonstrations. Obviously, here, if we talk about disallowing we are limiting a fundamental right. It's hard for me that liberals limit fundamental rights, it's a little contradictory, but good. I insist, we are going to abstain on this point and, as I have already said, in the rest of the motion we are going to vote yes, because it seems to us to be a good motion, which is also complementary to those which have been tabled, both by my group and by the VOX Group. And let us hope that it will serve, once and for all, to recognize and thank the great work done by the Corps of Mossos d'Esquadra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.38.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. So now, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word "Mr. Matías Alonso".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.39.0	Yes, very briefly. Just make reference, because it has been remembered before, therefore, that there is a lot of support for the Mossos, on the part of the government and also, on the part of the groups that support it; but it is not the feeling that the unions have. And just read a paragraph of the last statement from several of these unions, which says: "We have never been your heroes, but we don't have to allow them to treat us as third-party. We've taken it as normal to describe it to our work and to the police of Catalonia. We've got the pride of being a cop. We had to say it with a small mouth, and now it's time to say enough. This is a reaction to a decision taken by major groups in this room, this very week. That's what the unions say. In any case, respect the views of the motion, say that there have been presentations, as you know, on the part of the Socialist Group and Units for Progress; on the part of the VOX Group, and on the part of the Groups of Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia. To say that we have accepted item number 2 and item number 3 of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units; we have traded item number 4 and item number 6; we have also accepted, also, the item presented for the VOX Group, which also refers to extending to the Roma, Tarragona, the situation that is being painted to the Meridian overcome; it is not the same case, but it is very similar and it is equally bloody. And say we've traded item number 1, Republican Left and Junta groups for Catalonia, and we've accepted item number 3. Therefore, I believe that this motion for a resolution was intended, precisely, to talk about the way in which the safety competence in Catalonia is managed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.40.0	Thank you very much. So we shall proceed to the vote. There are petitions for separate votes. [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Roldan?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.41.0	Yes, President. In order to ask for a separate vote on point 1, point 5 and number 11, which could be voted jointly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.42.0	Okay. [[Joan Garriga Doménech asks to speak.]] Mr. Garriga?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.43.0	To ask for the vote separate from point 1.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.44.0	U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U... [[Alice Romero Llano asks to speak.]] Mrs. Romero?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.45.0	We are asking for a separate vote on 9 and 11, but not together; not to vote on it together. [[Marta Vilalta and Torres ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.46.0	Mrs. Vilalta?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.47.0	Yes, President. To ask, too, separate vote. In this case, points 1, 4 and 8, which could go together, but as a companion has said before, no. And point seven. [[David Cid Colomer asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.48.0	And, Mr. Cid, let's just fix it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.49.0	It looks bad. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.50.0	Yeah. [[The president laughs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.51.0	The 1, 4 and 8 could also be voted together. Then on 2, 3, 5, 6 and 7 we could also vote together, but we would have to vote separately from the rest. And 9:10 and 11 we could also vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.52.0	Okay. So-so-there. We're voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 112 votes to 20, with 2 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. Point 5_has received 50 votes in favour, 74 against and 10 abstentions. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. Point 7_has received 52 votes in favour, 9 against and 73 abstentions. We're voting points 4 and 8. The vote begins. Points 4 and 8 received 125 votes in favour and 9 votes against. We're voting point number 11 now. The vote begins. Point 11_has received 16 votes in favour, 115 against and 2 abstentions. We're voting points 2, 3 and 6. The vote begins. These points received 52 votes in favour, 74 against and 8 abstentions. And finally we vote on points 9 and 10. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Did they steal them apart? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, so, let's vote... I'm sorry. So we're voting point number nine. The vote begins. Point 9_has received 19 votes in favour, 82 against and 33 abstentions. And we're voting now, finally, point 10. The vote begins. Point 10_has received 52 votes in favour and 82 votes against. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the Catalonian relationship between marijuana narco-economics and associated crime]] [[302-00037/13]] Let's move on to the twenty-first point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the relationship between the narco-economics of marijuana and associated crime in Catalonia. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Forward Units, to make the presentation has the word of the deputy Ramon Swordler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.53.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of Parliament, members of the Government, when they are present in the Chamber... At the beginning of this parliamentary term, our leader, the president of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Salvador Illa, said that we pretended to be a good opposition to, too, helping to make a good government. And I remember, therefore, the Judit Alcalá, my companion, with whom we share tasks with the Commission of the Interior, in the first appearance of the Councillor Elena said: "We will be firm in the opposition, because it is the one that touches us, but it is also the intention. We will have occasion to stand firm with the government in many respects, because we disagree with it in many aspects of public order. But in other respects, we want to agree with the government, and it is clear to us that the government is so, we have read the papers and, therefore, we appreciate this attitude. And this is in this line of being, too, purpose. We propose something very simple and very difficult at the same time. It's putting it on the political agenda where it's been on the police agenda for a long time, which is all the narco-economy, all the organized crime that's around the law and the marijuana traffic to our country. That affects unequally, but practically the totality of the country, with matter depending on whether they are urban surroundings or rural surroundings, but that there is no region that does not escape to this and that is an element of difficult concern, not only for the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, but for our parliamentary group and I understand that for a very substantial part of the chamber. Concern and willingness to put it on the political agenda for three reasons. The first, because of the magnitude of the problem. The criminal figures will not repeat them, we wanted to put them on the table as a result of police reports of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra that put the hen's skin on us. And put the hen hair on us, too, another question, so, that's hybridization with other types of violence, also, and organized crime: arms trafficking, etc. So, a complicated situation. The second reason is for this association with other types of organized crime. And the third, no less – and here I thank a theme, therefore, of the groups that support the government, because it is much clearer than we suggest – that it is for the ability of these organized criminal groups to corrupt authorities. And let's say things by name, corrupting police, corrupting policies, corrupting powers of natural difference and citizens and entrepreneurs, etc. And this is a theme, therefore, that forces us to reflect and act in coherence. Therefore, from here the young man is very simple. It is structured in two parts. A set of findings – of the figures, of the perillosity, of the extension of the country's land – but above all of a proposal that tries to put in value all the tools that the Government has. The Mosses are working well. Police coordination is excellent, the income from the Mosos to the CITCO is good news in this sense, commissions that have been taxed for it will work well. But the law still gives us more privileges. And I will quote only two of them – they have all the text of the motion – which is the committee..., in the case of the Government of the Generality, which establishes Article 7 of the Law of Public Security of Catalonia, which says: "When there are situations of heavy risk – I read what you literally say –, "the President of the Commission of Government of Security – which we ask to meet, which is intra-governmental –..., " must be called when it is given exceptional situations, of heavy risk to public security or the alteration of civic coexistence, in order to stimulate and coordinate actions that fail. We have always said that security policy is a social policy for us. This commission has its own if the representatives of sanitation, the representatives of urbanism, has the representatives of youth, has the representatives related to the municipal world. Therefore, it has a lot of meaning that it is treated in this cross-sectional way. And another initiative we have – to put it on the political agenda and only two –..., is to put it on the agenda of the Security Board of Catalonia. Because it seems important to us too. And we also say, listen, then, that the security plan incorporates it, because this is a repte the magnitude of which has grown, these last years. We probably come from a time we haven't abandoned, from gihadist risks, but at the end of these we have all this other risk. And above all one will, I believe, much shared by most – I won't say for the totality, go; for most groups, not for the totality –: we can't stigmatize around because they have this problem; we can't stigmatize or label barrels because they have this problem. But we must give a firm answer; a firm police answer. Because, if not, we're subscribing to the land for attitudes that we don't want most of the people here who have already won presence in this chamber and that we don't want to win it in a lot of joints, from the misalignment that there is in many barrels and from the impunity of many criminal groups, so that they come, in this sense, to public space. That's the feeling of the young man. I will have time to speak with respect to the reports, but I have accepted them without exception, all those who have presented themselves, and a good part of them, of course, we have accepted them. Thank you, Madam President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.54.0	Thank you, Congressman. So you have the word, to defend the papers presented by the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - A New Cycle for Guanyar, Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.55.0	Thank you, President. We're going to take the rhythm, which looks like the morning will be long. Well, in any case, start with the thought we proposed; it was clear and simple: "Work for the decriminalization of culture and personal and collective tenancy and regulate the activity of social clubs of cannabis. Work to ensure that institutions guarantee the safety of consumers, control of production, distribution and consumption, thus ending up with mafias and the illegal market. We deeply regret that he did not accept this question, because we believe that it is the solution to this problem. And it's that we are as concerned as you are about the difficult situation of rape around production, consumption and distribution of marijuana, which is more and more, and we also share the analysis that goes absolutely more to Catalonia. And, in addition, we are concerned about the salvation of Catalans and Catalans as well. We share concerns here. What happens is that the rest of the measures they propose can't be shared, because we don't think they go to the bottom of the solution. We think that we believe that with the war on drugs we will succeed in winning the mafias and putting up with the spiral of violence with more police, more resources, criminal hardening and more dedication to resources, so it was something we could think of during the 20th century. But in the 21st century, are we following this same speech? Are we still in the 21st century with this same layout? Aren't we after previous experiences? We think this is a big mistake, and that's why we're doing a little memory. How did they win the Alcohol War in 1920 in the United States? What? With more police, with more weapons, with more judgment, with more enterprise, with more prosecutions, with more resources? So no. They lost her. And they lost it because it increased crime, multiplied the number of prisoners five times and exponentially increased security and prison spending. And no effects on the reduction of consumption. The other way around, it's gonna increase. What did you end up doing in 1932? So he chose another way, which is the legalization of alcohol with all the consequences that this meant. Among other things, decrease in crime, decrease in dedication and function and the need to assign police to these tasks. And there was no significant increase in consumption, and in any case, it was able to control. We are no longer going into the tax debate and the debate that I would assume for the public archives the question of the legalization of marijuana. I think it's a very well-known subject that is being debated in Congress as well, and that there are proposals. To finish – and not to extend'me – we will abstain from this proposal because we believe that all the measures they propose..., that the diagnosis we share largely does not serve to solve the problem. And it doesn't help to solve the problem if it's not work to legalize marijuana, which we think is the fund solution. We believe that some of the measures they present may assume that there will be a short-term reduction in consumption, crime, supply, production in Catalonia, but in any case, we think that, with much luck and among many comets, what will succeed as much as it is ‘move the problem, move' the other area or territory. And we think we're not here to move problems, but to solve them. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.56.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. So, for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, deputy Jordi Munell has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.57.0	Thank you, Vice President. Deputys and deputies, good morning. Well, in this case, as has been said, we have made a set of statements, and with the intervention of Mr Swordler, so........we appreciate the good understanding there has been. In fact, to the deputy Swordler, to Unites per Avance, we also thank him for telling us that our country has a problem. Therefore, there is a country recognition. A country that, unfortunately, has not yet been, but wants to talk to us about a matter that is a matter of state. We're talking about a state structure that's security, it's dealing with crime, dealing with international organized crime. And, therefore, we appreciate this view that we have, from country to country, without the resources that we should have as an independent state, but in any case, it is fine. Also, almost at the beginning, he says, "Home, here too we will be told that this problem of the narco-economy and the drug traffickers..., we would if it was also a problem of the process, eh? In this Mr. Swordler does not enter, and, therefore, we also appreciate it. Because it is a problem, as we say, of the state, that it is not the only one in Catalonia, unfortunately, that it also happens to other countries. For example, in the country on the coast, where you do... your group has responsibilities, because they're not in the shade there, they're in the front... and so is it. It coincides on dates with, precisely... it turns out that Toledo has dismantled the largest cult camp in Europe a few days ago. It also coincides with the fact that the PSOE in Madrid has aligned with the extreme right and right on the issue of legalization of cannabis consumption, as the CUP company said now, which could be one of the solutions. There are many proposals here, but we do not see any solutions either, despite the fact that, as we say, with the papers presented, we will vote in favour. In fact, Spain, narco territory. We say: the country on the coast has a problem. To our country, too, unfortunately. Is he fighting more cops? They don't say that to the analysis of the country on the side. Even the anti-drug prosecutor, Mr. Noreña, makes a whole point..., tells us about the climate in the country on the coast, which favors the presence of up to 514 organized gangs that do drug trafficking, and, therefore, narco-economics, huh? A continued police intervention... but he also talks to us that criminal responsibility for this issue is very low. And, therefore, here we can find one of the causes of the situation, which the young lady does not talk about either. This is a continuum: Aragó, Toledo, Badajoz, Valladolid, Molina de Segura, Almeria, Mallorca... Unfortunately, Catalonia also – Catalonia also. But I also believe that the work of our police and the Interior Department must be valued. Police tasks that we must also remember that, by 2018, they were not allowed to enter data sharing through the CITCO, and that by 2021, twelve years after being created, they could not be part of the SIENA platform of Europol. And, therefore, in a situation or in a situation of an issue that goes beyond the states, because the problem is an international problem, our police have been deprived of it for a long time on such a key issue that we are so concerned about all of us. In fact, the squadron moves, working precisely with Europol, a few weeks ago, this summer dismantled 25,000 marijuana plants in coordination with Europol, the German and Albanian police. Or, for example, also the squadron moves... 5,000 plants in a town in Tarragona, all a marijuana plantation in a piss in the city, or 15,000 more plants in another town in Tarragona. Therefore, they cannot say that they are not acting. What do we have to talk about? A waste of resources? How many years have we been talking about resource shortages? We need to remember Councillor Jané, we need to remember Councillor Buch, Councillor Sàmper, Councillor Elena. How many times has the State made it impossible for us to have the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad How many times have we spoken here, in this Faristol... or even the president, when he was vice president of the Economy, who claimed those nearly 700_million euros owed by the State to the structure of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra? So, as we say, here we are being asked for solutions and resources. We're asking for resources and state solutions in a country we haven't been in. We have a precarious model of finance, a major fiscal deficit and a permanent debt, for example, on such key issues as security. Therefore, what we should raise is to say..., really, the foundations of the question: reform of the penal code, hardening of the penises. Who can do this? Can we get it out of here? What's going on in the country on the coast? What solutions are near? We can't see they're getting involved. And another thing: absolution, absolution, absolution, absolution for marijuana cultivation. Is that the example we give? We are, therefore, fostering an appropriate climate, as the anti-drug prosecutor said, because it is developing up to these 514 bands that also act in Catalonia, although we have not been there. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.58.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left of Catalonia, has the word Lord Chakir the Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.59.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... Deputy Swordler, in the first place, I want to thank the to, the to at the time of being able to work the papers. I think we've come to an agreed_per_cent. There's a part where we haven't reached agreement – now I will – but I think it's all important. And I do want to explain the three strategic areas of the issues that we have presented, why and how we have worked them. First of all, to recognize the repte – we have recognized all the groups that we have passed through here – the repte that is supposed to be for the police, for all the administrations in the country, for the barrels, for the cities of this country, the growth of criminal organizations, of mafia organizations that make crimes around the cannabis, but that also make other types of crimes. And it's a repte. And it's a reptile that affects the whole country, without distinction, just like it affects a lot of people across Europe – a lot of people across Europe. And I don't think we need to be conscious. What do we want? Clearly frame the repte. The repte are the criminal and mafia organizations that are working, that traffic respect the cannabis. And we wanted to clarify this in order to avoid a tempt, to avoid the tempt of self-cultivation stigmatization – which we will then enter. And we wanted to separate it clearly: the first block of items followed this. And I appreciate the willingness – and I am moving forward to what Mr Swordler will explain, but I think he's close to me – because they've accepted all these points and we think it's good news. The second aspect that we wanted to work with – and it's a reality that Mr. Swordler has placed and that I think is very important –: avoid... Or, we wanted to avoid the stigmatization of consumption or self-culture, for one thing. We wanted to avoid the stigmatization of our country's barrels, because it's a collectible repte and we don't help it, stigmatizing. The best way to help is to face the challenge, work it. So, we've made a series of papers, we've also accepted, where, in a very modest way, we think we're improving a little bit of writing and that we can say that no one does there any interpretation of stigma. Segon objected that they had, second object sunk. And now we're going to the object that we haven't met, the object that we haven't accepted. And I want to read the part of the puzzle, because I think it's very clear, and then I go in there. On the 17th we made a modification. We've put all the involvement in criminal organizations into this will. I know that this did not follow the problem, but we introduced it: "...so as to study the experiences of regularization carried out to other countries respect the consumption of marijuana and self-cultivation and its effects around the crime associated with Mafia and criminal organizations. I think it's an absolutely..., we wrote it with a will..., a lot to come to. It's a thought that... we don't suppose what the end will be. We could assume him. And I think it's known, the position of my parliamentary group, and it's known... And we have examples. And we have examples that are interesting to study and worth studying. In Uruguay, the first five years of regularization: the study..., is that it has been avoided, if 'lshi have tried, to criminal and mob organizations, 22_million_dollars. Well, it's usually everybody who makes a bet to regularize, does it too... with different perspectives, but also with the perspective of fighting organized crime. Well, it's an experience. The United States – Congressman Pellicer was talking about the famous war against drugs that Nixon and Reagan started – now they are taking the advance to the world level. And I think it's interesting to know some results of opinion polls between your citizens and your citizens. In Colorado, the seventy-u_per_cent considers it to have been a uncertainty, regulation, and disset, a wrong one. In Oregon, sixty-nine_per_cent thinks it's a certainty– citizenry, a city we've usually always thought is more conservative than here–, and twenty_per_cent think it's a mistake. The worst result is in Maine – curiously, a state that is always well known to be a state..., progressive –: forty-seven_per_cent consider it a uncertainty, and a twenty_per_cent, a mistake, regularization. I think you're a close-up debate. And as soon as I didn't want to face it, when this House voted for the ILP and voted for it the whole House, except the People's Party, to give it an example. I think it's worth it, because, if not, we don't give an answer. The answer to security challenges is not only based on the Criminal Code, and that is what we agree on; it is also a social policy. So let's face this debate. And we wanted to face it in a very purposeful way, without that element that you say... we don't know what the result will be, but study it... I think it's worth it. And at this point we will abstain, as we have already commented, Mr. Swordler. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.60.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. So now, then. [[some applause]] ..., to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, Mr Andrés Bello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.61.0	Good morning, Madam President. Mr Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, as the representative of the Socialists has said before, we are indeed concerned about security, we are very concerned. Surely we have different solutions, as we will now comment. Well, today the PSC presents us with a motion on a very serious problem that we suffer in a growing way in Catalonia: it is the cultivation and trafficking of marijuana by organized gangs, largely composed of foreigners – I already know that they do not like this much, but it is so, and, moreover, says the motion itself. The terrible consequences of this situation are known to all: establishment of criminal networks in Catalonia; commission of other serious crimes, such as trafficking in weapons, violent thefts, homicides, murders or kidnappings; promotion of the otupation of industrial floors or ships to create plantations; fraudulent use of the electricity network, generating situations of danger to the neighbours; increase of public insecurity. And, in the face of this scenario, we have a police under-equipped with human and material means and little backed up in their actions by political leaders, who are more concerned about their pacts with the CUP's anti-system than about citizen security. And, in the same vein of fleeing forceful measures to deal with organized crime, the PSC presents this motion to us. After a presentation of facts that reflect the seriousness of the problem, we propose generic measures, such as the provision of more resources to the Corps of Mossos or the improvement of police coordination. We agree, huh? We agree, and we have said this in this forum, and in others, many times, but we only have one specific proposal: to set up a number of committees, which are already covered by the legislation in force. It is to be imagined that this proposal, creating several commissions, will not generate any concern in the international gangs of drug traffickers who operate in Catalonia heavily armed and who make the commission of serious crimes their lucrative business. This solution..., this is what is usually done when you have no firm intention of solving a problem: creating commissions. We all know that the fight against this scourge must go through the use of all the means at the disposal of society to defend itself, and, in addition, to do so with complete force: legal means, increasing the severity of the penalties related to the cultivation and trafficking of marijuana; police means, increasing the human and material means of the police forces, improving their coordination, so that, among other things – it has already been commented – the data in the CITCO system of the Ministry of the Interior, and, Mr. Counsellor, giving confidence and support, not only legal, to the policemen who play their lives by defending the law. Also judicial means, improving the means of the administration of justice, to properly analyse their work and in the shortest possible time, and prison means, making offenders for these very serious crimes fully comply with their sentences. In addition to these measures, we believe that the values of society must be strengthened. Social permissiveness with drug use must be rejected and, through public campaigns, explained the negative consequences of all kinds of drug trafficking and consumption for society and individuals in particular. Also, the overwhelming rejection of the phenomenon of octopus, so widespread in Catalonia and which has a close relationship with the world of drug cultivation and sale. In conclusion, this proposal seems insufficient and will not end the marijuana crops or organized criminal gangs that have made it their business. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.62.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. So now, to fix the position, too, for the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Podemos, Congressman Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.63.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, MPs and MPs... I'd like to start the debate for the iniquitous, because I think that sometimes with political discussion... we turn it upside down. I believe that we all agree that cannabis consumption has a clear effect on consumer health and that therefore there can be no debate on this. Do not look into us or go to "xuletons or ethyl interventions" tell DGT: "Who told you how much I can drink or how much I can drink before I take the car? But I think there is a debate that is fundamental, that is if the illegality of the cannabis protects the public and the health of consumers, and if the illegalization of the cannabis generates negative effects on the society's joint venture. We believe that it does not protect public health, nor does it protect consumers; that it does not stop consumption – and data are there –; that it does not guarantee health care measures on the composition of what is being bought and is coming today for consumption in Catalonia, and that, in order not to restrict, we are not capped or to restrict access to minors to the purchase of drugs in our country, because consumption in our country exists despite illegality. And, in addition, its illegality has negative effects on the society's joint venture. And, in fact, his motion is the description of the negative effects of the illegalization of cannabis consumption on the company's joint venture. Their illegality feeds the mafias, feeds the criminal organization and hibernates with other criminal acts, such as drug trafficking, such as rape, etc. In fact, we consider that its illegality generates a perverse incentive in its own criminal economy; that we are not only unable to feed the mafias, but that its illegality generates an incentive for the conjunction of the criminal chain. The German government will fully legalize the consumption and sale of cannabis, and there are other countries that have already done so. And we said, "There have been states, I think, of the United States that have already legalized it." And for them the debate is not new, and it has already been mentioned: between the years 20 and 30 they held the debate on the repeal of the dry law. And they didn't do it for an endorsement of alcohol consumption; they did it because they weren't able to guarantee minimum health conditions in access to alcohol and because they had generated a whole structure and a criminal economy that they saw in the prohibition of alcohol distribution an incentive to create parallel savings. And this was the key to legalization. And I think we're at the point where we need to debate seriously if the war on the cannabis isn't just losing it, but if you've felt it coming from its illegality. There's a point we won't vote for it and we'd like to argue. There is a point where you say that its effects are across the board of society; that, let's say, the richest barrels and the poorest barrels suffer across the board from this type of economy and associated crime. We don't agree. It is obvious that someone in Sant Cugat del Vallès or someone in another barrel consumes cannabis has effects on their salvation, and it is obvious that the criminal economy has effects on both barrels, but we believe that there are dimensions of this debate that are often overcrowded. Mercedes Gallizo, who was General Secretary of Penitentiary Institutions, said in an interview something very interesting: that the seventy per cent of the people who are in prison today are poor, malalta or drug addicts. And there's one thing that doesn't change with the illegality of the cannabis, which is that the people who go to prison are mostly poor people and that we're turning the war against illegal activity organized into a criminal persecution of the poor. And I think we should think about that, too. I want to end with a more general reflection. Many of you... I believe that the vast majority of us have defended that they have returned to open the night octopus, and no one has attached us to hypocrites. And we all know that at night it consumes alcohol and it consumes other substances, but I think we are all aware that our society needs regularized and legal spaces where it can establish its eye, and that it is better that there is no such thing. Because the alcohol that is consumed in a nightclub is the same as the alcohol that is consumed in a bottle; it does not change, its natural, to be a commodity. And what we're laying down today in general is that regular and secure spaces are also called for the consumption of cannabis. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.64.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Member of Parliament Matías Alonso has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.65.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament... This motion that presents us today to debate and vote by the Socialist and Uniting Parliamentary Group calls on all parliamentary groups to respect a question of security related to organised crime, with organised crime, in which our own community is very much affected. The performance of organized criminal groups and gangs has grown in a clear and constant way in Catalonia. And among these criminal groups and gangs, drug-related and, more specifically, conreu, distribution and export of marijuana, there has been a serious security problem in many of the region's rights. The motion makes an extensive, realistic and clear description of which is the situation of the narcoindustry and some of its derivatives. Perhaps not everyone agrees, with the description of the social problem of marijuana drug trafficking in Catalonia. From the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group – already advancing them – we are in agreement, with the description of the problem and with the proposals that this motion makes to the Government of the Generality in order to fight effectively against this scourge, which is drug trafficking in general, and, specifically, the internal and external distribution of marijuana. Leaving aside what was before, whether the or the chicken, the reality is that in the past time organized criminal groups have proliferated in Catalonia. I would say that groups of delinquents have generally proliferated and organized themselves to carry out criminal activities of a variety of kinds. These criminal groups always seek the maximum profitability of their criminal activity. We must make it clear, moreover, that they take advantage of all and every opportunity that gives them a more difficult response to certain problems, that they do not hesitate to take advantage of their benefits. From the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, as from other groups of this chamber – not all, unfortunately – we have seen with concern the ease with which certain criminal and criminal conducts have been grappled. And we have demanded that there be a better and more effective and rapid response in the fight against organised crime and against criminal mafias that generate social conflict and insecurity situations, often very hard, in many areas of Catalonia. Certainly whenever we have done so, some parliamentary groups of this chamber – even sometimes the same group proposing this young man – have accused us of stigmatizing certain barrels and cities. Mirin, to our parliamentary group in Ciutadans, we are very clear: that really stigmatizes the barrels and cities is to encapsulate the criminal statistics without there being an effective response on the part of the authorities responsible for maintaining public security and ensuring that everyone, independently of the people, the walls or the city in which we live, can develop our project of life in peace and freedom. If we don't want to stigmatize – we don't want to –, what we have to do, among all of us, is to ensure security and fight effectively and forcefully against crime whether or not it is organized, but especially against the organization, because it is, and of course, the most dangerous we face. I want to make special reference to the fact that, by linking it to the law and trafficking of marijuana, the crime of occupation appears to the motion. From Ciutadans we have repeatedly denounced the criminal activity, the organizational mafias that control the occupation of habitats, locals and industrial buildings in Catalonia. If insha accused, I return to say, of stigmatizing negating reality. What really stigmatizes is captivating crime statistics. What really stigmatizes you is not being able to develop your life plan in peace and freedom because there are mafias in the city, in the city, that make life impossible at the conjunction of the city. From Ciutadans we have linked – because that's it – the criminal occupation organized with the marijuana conreu. This repeated complaint has been corroborated by the facts. The last few months we have seen how the dismantling of marijuana plantations has increased to floors, locals and busy nausea. But we may need to be aware, all folded, that the ease with which floors, towers, shrouds, locals and industrial ships are occupied, and the difficulty with which legitimate owners are found to recover immediately the domain of their property, cause this criminal activity to be a breeding ground suitable for drug trafficking, the conreu and distribution of marijuana and the growth of the presence of organized criminal groups. Here, in the occupation, we may have one of the eggs that take us to these chickens. It's about time we took this, too, with no sense of kindness, this question. And, without wishing to enter into the etimologic debate on the term 'country', what I would like to make clear is that Catalonia has a state: it is said 'Spanish State, and all of us, Members of this Parliament, in part, as they form part of all and each of the institutions of the Generality of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.66.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.67.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, I have to admit that this Socialist Party motion has surprised me. Mr Espadaler and I share the Committee on the Interior, and although we have held few meetings, it is true that to date we have had the opportunity to discuss the problems of insecurity facing Catalonia. Without going any further, we had a number of proposals on this subject in the last Committee on the Interior. At the whim of some groups? No, because the insecurity we are living in Catalonia, especially in recent times, is serious and worrying. The problem is that in most of these debates that I am talking about we have to hear from parties, such as, for example, the Socialist Party, that this reality that some of us have explained, the rise in crime in Catalonia, is not true. The parties that support the Government also do, although, well, obviously, these parties have to defend the disastrous management they are doing at the head of the Generalitat, they have a lot to cover up. But, of course, it draws attention to that attitude which the Socialist Party has, which you intend to go through as an alternatiu government but which of alternatius, therefore, have the same thing as I as an astronaut. And we find a PSC, I insist, which often accuses us of failing to the truth, it calls us "exaggerated, even "irresponsible. They deny the existence of this increase of insecurity, even the offended ones are made – and I would like to refer, I insist, to the last Committee on the Interior that we are celebrating – but now they fall apart with a motion that says the following: first, that in Catalonia criminal networks have been rooted, which is a fine way that the PSC has to refer to the mafias; they tell us that they are autochthonous from countries of the East and the rest of Europe. Come on, Catalonia, home to mob networks. Secondly, not only are these mafias engaged in marijuana cultivation, but they have extended the business to trafficking in arms, human beings and money laundering. This is also said by the motion. Third, that the activity of these criminal mafias fosters phenomena such as the otupation of properties, violent robberies, assaults and homicides. The motion says so too. Phenomenon, I insist, that the PSC has refused to systematically recognize what goes on in the legislature. That is, octopus of real estate, violent robberies, assaults and homicides – they say – promoted by these mafias – they say – that they are autochthonous, but also from the east and other parts of Europe – they say. You now say that the mobsters of the east are working on okupar floors or that with them there has been an increase in crime, thefts, assaults and homes, which are thrown at you in zero comas and they are holding you back and accusing you of generating hate crime. But you can see that, if the PSC says so, then absolutely nothing happens. More things this motion says. He says that this phenomenon affects many neighborhoods and municipalities, causing other damages, such as light cuts due to fraudulent hooks in the buildings' okupations. That so far, in your opinion, this was an exaggeration of ours, but it can be seen that no longer, even though we had given them objective data that show that the level of illegal octopus in Catalonia is much higher than the rest of the autonomous communities. But, well, as you are finally now aware of the issue, and we welcome it, that you have come to table a motion with nineteen points on it, I propose one more point. Do you want to stop the octopus and send a loud and clear message to the mobs? They have it easy: talk to your government, with the government of Pedro Sánchez, and tell him that, instead of protecting criminals – those who, in addition to okupar, steal, assault and even commit murder, as they acknowledge in this motion – protect the owners and citizens who are exemplary in complying with the laws. Or what is the same thing, talk to Mr Sánchez and his ministers and tell them the same thing that we say to the Generalitat: stop being the lobby of okupas and delinquents and defend citizens once and for all. Talk to Pedro Sánchez, for example, and tell him to accept the bill of the People's Party that we have tabled in the Congress of Deputies that intends to precisely tackle the phenomena that you are denouncing here today with this motion. I believe that..., protecting those citizens who comply, against those who do not, seems to me to be what is expected, therefore, of a decent government and a responsible government. The problem is that, judging by your fellow travellers, I'm very afraid that's not on your scale of values. In spite of all this, and of being critical of the motion they bring today, we are going to vote in favour of these points, because we want to tackle this phenomenon of opupations and because we want to fight firmly, I insist, against these mafias and against the criminals who systematically skip the law in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.68.0	And finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word the deputy Mr Ramon Swordler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.69.0	Yes, thank you, Madam President. It's not a discourtesy, it's that I only have two minutes, and so I won't be able to comment on those groups that haven't submitted papers. Now Mrs. Roldán said a lot of things, but, of course, you do papers and put them to the vote, and we can either decide or not. There has been a CUP issue that we have not accepted, nor have we just entered to negotiate it, because we do not honestly believe that there is an automatism between legalizing the bill and consumption..., the bill and reducing it. We're not talking about charity Germans. We are talking about criminal gangs, which require an effective police response and, if you want, even hard, a hard one. And I went to a question that was made by Mr. Lucas Ferro, who said: "Home, when you talk about transversality... We precisely put this to the proposal – and I also went to the papers of the groups that support the government –..., because we wanted to avoid stigmatizing the barrels. You're right in what you say, but you're not right in one thing: the phenomenon affects the totality of the country. This is the sense of transversality. There was a very clear underlying will not to stigmatize concrete barrels in which it rains on mules, in which with mobs it rains on mules. More reason to act hard on the police. More than that, to make the unoccupations when these come from the hands of these mafias. Obviously, we're in this position, and that's the feeling. To thank, in short, the reports submitted to us by the groups that support the Government; we have agreed, in good part. And show a point, let me just stare at it, of satisfaction. There's a problem that's latent, that everyone, one way or another, we knew him, that the police know him very well. Our aim was to put it on the political agenda. And I sincerely appreciate all the interventions, beyond the discrepancies there may have been, because we have been strictly talking about a topic that is on the street and that concerns a lot of people. I didn't answer one by one to all the representatives, but... the Junts representative... I don't know if... I didn't just hear if what it was about was to increase the penalties in the penal code, but there were votes in exactly the opposite at the Congress of Deputies. Therefore, simply leave a feeling that has disconcerted me very much, this position. In any case, agrate the pieces, agrate the whole. And I'll keep working on it. This is not happening in a parliamentary debate. There's a lot of work to do and we have to do a lot of work for our police. Thank you. [[Some applause. Xavier Pellicer Couple asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.70.0	Yes, Mr. Pellicer?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.71.0	We ask for a separate vote on point 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.72.0	Point 5. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Villalta...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.73.0	We want to request a separate vote on paragraph 17.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.74.0	Yes. [[Joan Garriga Doménech asks to speak.]] Mr. Garriga?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.75.0	Yeah. To ask for a separate vote, if possible, from points 1 and 5 together, and points 6 and 11.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.76.0	Six and 11, they could also go together. [[David Cid Colomer asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Cid?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.77.0	Point 17, I think Mrs. Vilalta has already said so. And then together we could vote on 5, 9, 10, 11 and 12.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.78.0	Five, 9, 10, 11 and 12. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] Okay. So let's start the vote by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved, with 113 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved, with 105 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved, with 113 votes in favour and 20 abstentions. We're voting point number 11 now. The vote begins. Point 11 was approved, with 105 votes in favour and 28 abstentions. We're voting point number 17. The vote begins. Point 17_has remained..., got 51 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 73 abstentions. We will now vote on points 5, 9, 10 and 12. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, we've already voted on the 5th; 9, 10 and 12– because we also voted on the 11th. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 116 votes in favour and 17 abstentions. And finally, we vote for the rest of the points. The vote begins. I didn't tell them because there are so many of them: 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 13, 14, 15 and 16. The remaining points were approved, with 124 votes in favour and 9 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into security]] [[302-00040/13]] Let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on security, presented by the Parliamentary Group of VOX. To expose it, has the word the deputy Mr Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.79.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Councillor, this week Esquerra Republicana and Junts have presented a series of security interpretations to VOX's rebuf, which presented the inquiry at last plenary session. They are late, they are dragged by the opposition, they are forced by the gravity of the situation – how will the courtyard be! – and they are not credible. They have been ruling Catalonia for many years and we have the worst crime and insecurity data in Spain. This is the reality. Mr. Elena, law, order and authority, these are the three axes that should preside over your action, because respect for law, order and authority is the basis of security, and without security there is neither freedom nor equality. Freedom so that a girl can go out alone on the street without fear of being sexually assaulted; freedom so that parents can rest waiting for her son to arrive safely and unless he has gone out at night; freedom so that our elders, our elders, can go to the bank office and are not afraid to be docked on the way out. And without security there is no equality either: equal opportunities in those less favoured neighborhoods where, if there is no security, if crime catches young people, they lose professional opportunities, to grow personally and professionally, to study... The security of a country, of a city, of a neighborhood, is the best social lift. Of course, it is not the so-called effect of the left. The measures we propose address important issues that you do nothing to implement. That the Generalitat regularly convenes the Security Board, which is now meeting, but has been inactive for three years; it needs to meet regularly. Update Catalonia's security plan, which is expired. We want to know what the department's priorities are in terms of security; they must be black and white. Measures in the area of illegal otupation, which is a crime in itself but which involves many other crimes and incisiveness. And, look, on this issue I have to tell you to fall into a tremendous incoherence, Mr. Elena. I have to tell you, I'm sorry. Look at what Mrs Ciuró said in the Committee on Justice on 5 July, and I read to her: "The illegal occupation cannot be a form established and tolerated of access to housing, because these occupations tend against the housing of families, against social housing, damage living together and harm the most vulnerable people who have followed legally established lives in order to gain access to social housing. Welcome to VOX's speech, Mr. Elena, welcome to VOX's speech. But then do not have the defachability to vote us against the motion against illegal okupation on June 10th just because it is presented by VOX. You show that your sectarianism really prevents you from dealing with the real problems of Catalans and that Mrs Ciuro's words are absolutely hollow words. We have also made proposals on improving the working conditions of our very important squadron mossos. We have called for a specific plan to prevent crime and incisiveness in botellones. We have also called for a specific protocol to the cultivation and trafficking of marijuana, which is a global problem – we have just dealt with it – but Catalonia cannot, of course, become the Juarez City of Europe. And we have also called for action on the miners and on illegal immigration. Extension and empowerment of the Tremall pla, against multi-recidivism, in all those places where this problem is a pressing problem. Strengthening of the Polièdric platform to combat the high crime of the mines, Mr Elena. And look, Mr. Counsellor, also measures to combat illegal immigration, which is a source of insecurity and crime on many occasions. In other countries, this debate has no complexity. I will read you textually the words of a Dutch politician and former Member, Eva Vlaardingerbroek, who currently resides in Sweden. You, who like so much to compare yourself with the countries of the north..., say: « Sweden was one of the safest countries in Europe, and now it is the second most dangerous country in Europe in violent crimes. In just ten years, the effects of large-scale illegal immigration and demographic change have not been small. And there are still people who refuse to have a bond. And attention: "I have to say, says this woman, this former Member, "that anyone who at this point still rejects the link between illegal immigration and the increase in crimes in Sweden or does not want to know what is going on or has an interest in covering up the truth. Mr. Elena, you're responsible for security in Catalonia. Safety is many things – this you always say, and it's true – but this is also one of them. Don't look away. At the previous plenary session we gave him a lot of data from Idescat, the Ministry of the Interior, Mossos d'Esquadra, the Police Union..., that is, they support this reality. Faced with these chilling data, you were muted. Do you really want to face the lack of security that Catalans suffer? Then be honest and acknowledge that it is also part of the insecurity, this problem, this reality, which is not only from here, which also affects other places in Spain and Europe, and talk about it without complexes. Do not help silence the truth that Catalans suffer in their neighborhoods and villages, because, otherwise, every sexual assault committed by an illegal immigrant, every ocupation, every wounded police officer, every assault of those that occur daily in Catalonia, will be knocking at the doors of their consciences. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.80.0	Then he has the word, to defend the papers presented, the deputy Mr Matías Alonso, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.81.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, lords and deputies... The Parliamentary Group of VOX raises a wise motion that, due to the inconcretion of many of its points, seems more a fragment of its electoral program than a proposal to improve the action of the current government, of the current government's disgovernment. In any case, Mr Macián, I am sorry to inform you that probably none of the points in your motion, even with the slight improvement introduced by the amendments that have accepted us, so... none of the points, I say, will be adopted in this plenary. It doesn't matter whether it's concrete or inconcrete, it doesn't matter whether its application is convenient or not, nor does it matter that it can be used to improve public safety in Catalonia. The only thing that matters, which is really decisive, is the evil so-called ‘health cord to which they are subjected, among others, the extreme left and also the extreme right – that of nationalist bias – which preceded them in this Parliament. You know that we, our parliamentary group, do not understand democracy as the exclusion of any representative of the citizenry in a parliament, because we believe that it is profoundly undemocratic any wrong cordon called 'health', that the only thing that it does is pummel politics. That we are not in favour of isolating legitimate representatives of citizens from the debate is proof of the fact that we even vote together, because, with the CUP or, without going any further, with the veteran right-wing populism in this Parliament, which has been occupying seats in this Chamber since several legislatures and, of course, also forms the current government. We are therefore prepared to debate and even amend and, if appropriate, vote in favour of their proposals when these proposals seem appropriate to us and aim to improve government action in the Generalitat area. We believe that this is the case with some of your proposals. I tell you that they look more like a recital in the form of a sheet of some of your programmatic proposals, and – I suppose you are aware – your program is not ours. I would even tell him that, in many respects, he does not even look like ours, which is not only legitimate, but also healthy for democracy, as a sign of political pluralism, of that superior value proclaimed by our Constitution. I will focus on the amendments we have tabled to your original text. The first, which has not been accepted, refers to the Security Board of Catalonia, whose regular call for the president of the Generalitat. The Security Board, regulated by article 164.4 of the Statute of Autonomy, which has a parity composition between the Generalitat and the State and is chaired, in fact, by the President of the Generalitat, is one of the means available to the Generalitat to participate in the coordination of security policies and the activities of the security forces and bodies. Although it is the President of the Generalitat who presides over it, its call does not depend exclusively on the will of one party, but on both. It seems that it will meet shortly, even before the end of the year. In our amendment, we propose that the Government of Spain should propose at this next meeting the extension of the staff of mossos d'ésquadra to reach the twenty-five thousand agents that we think are necessary in the body. In any case, it has not been accepted. In the second, we delete the reference to foreigners as the only innovators of organized crime – indigenous criminals are also creative and innovative – and propose that violence be pursued regardless of its origin. Nor has the second, of course, been accepted. In the third, we request that the Government of the Generalitat request the Government of Spain to review the legislative measures to prevent the increase in criminal activity and to penalize recidivists appropriately. In the fourth, we propose that the Government of the nation be urged from the Generalitat to put forward in the General Courts the legislative reforms necessary to effectively combat the crimes of trespassing and usurpation by providing judges and security forces with the appropriate tools for the immediate eviction of the Okupas. In the fifth, we will consolidate the proposal contained in its thirteenth and thirteenth proposals, extending the increase in the allocated staffing and the establishment of timetables and shifts to facilitate the rest and rotation of the agents both to Brimo and to the regional areas of operational resources. This has indeed been accepted by you. The sixth proposes that the improvement of the training, the police and the material means be extended to all the agents of the Corps of Mossos d'Esquadra, without limiting the one exclusively to the members of Brimo. Much and better training is needed, and at all levels. As far as the seventh is concerned, it simply requests the deletion of its thirteenth proposal, since it has been subsumed in the thirteenth proposal, if our fifth amendment is accepted, as it has been accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.82.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Ramon Espadaler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.83.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm going to do it on the stand, because it's likely you won't exhale the time you've given us. VOX subjugates ourselves to what we might name – and that's not the only case, is it? – a ‘lost movement', which touches a wide range of issues with regard to security, but with a look that we can share in the way we can, and be consistent with what we have done in the current legislature. The set-up, the hard core, the VOX care center is supported by questions that we cannot share in any way, including xenophobia. We haven't had a new one, we haven't had a new one, we haven't had a new one, we haven't had a new one, we haven't had a new one, we haven't had a new one, we haven't had a new one, we haven't had a new one, we haven't had a new one, we haven't had a new one. And, therefore, they will not have to be alienated, and they will not have to be alienated in this room, so that we do not support their proposals, not for the content, but precisely because they do not have a position that we can in any way share and, if I may express, bleach. Allow me to make a reference to this, perhaps it's very personal. This week we buried Jacint Codina, who was mayor of Vic, who did many things in politics, and I don't think that anyone could "tach a person precisely from the left, in many of his positions, not the "tachar de copaire" – accept it, the expression, the lords of the CUP – that in the concrete case of managing immigration issues, new arrivals, he made a very brave bet, of city, which we called the "Vic model", which consisted of, in public school and concerted school, integrating there, therefore, people to sow social cohesion. This is exactly the opposite of what the leaders of VOX came to do at the last election campaign, which referred to these barrels as cultural outsiders. And when a sense of that... is that there's no way to talk to these people. It's just that there's no way. And, therefore, for all these expressed reasons, which are profound, we will not give support to any of the points of the motion. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.84.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Then there is the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, the deputy Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.85.0	Okay. Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... after this interaction, with inclusive marijuana, we follow with this second act, for us especially tragic, especially raw. Already, again, giving any kind of mask, with a speech that we do not want to get used to, nor do we think that we can get used to any of the present here in Parliament, despite the fact that it is repeated one time and another about hatred, about lying and about the persecution of the weakest. So, apart from the Faixist speeches of this Parliament. We've got enough. [[Some applause.]] That said, we're still talking about security. Some background brushes, some data and some reflections from criminology. Context. We have a model of society that went more and more into atomization and individualization. A society every day more liquid respects life and the conditions necessary for a dignified life: in habitation, in labor, in impossibility to settle at the top of the walls or at the top of the village, to create community or to create collectible spaces of coexistence or struggle, which are ultimately the ones that improve society. In general, unravelling. Factors that are more precarious, including the conditions of life and the increase in conflicts and situations of violence, the rights and the conditions of life, which, in order to support this model and to support this system, must be absolutely linked to a major social control and to greater expenditure on security and police. At the same time, we find ourselves at a time when technologies..., immatureness, immediacy, together with the need, often, of electoral results, bring to some nine forms of communication and bring to some dynamics in which they are to enter into some actions often blunt, often they do not go to the bottom and often generate rebot effects. For what he does to data, we're talking about police numbers and crime. Currently in Catalonia there are 34,000 police officers, approximately 28,000 squads and municipal police and 7,000 civilian guards and national police. Perhaps we could ask ourselves what these last ones are doing, and if it is necessary that they follow, and if we should devote the resources that this entails to other questions. In any case, the half a thousand inhabitants of police officers in Catalonia is over 450 officers per hundred thousand inhabitants. This supposes that, with respect to comparison with Europe, there are only seven states that exceed these police data per hundred_ thousand inhabitants, where it is more than six hundred. At the same time, we also see that fourteen European states do not reach three hundred police stations for every hundred_ thousand inhabitants, and that the six states that have less police per inhabitant practically do not reach two hundred or are around two hundred. Do you know what's going on in these six states? I don't think it's random, but... it's the six states with the lowest rate of child poverty. I think this explains a lot about security: about community security and how to address security, which is through reducing inequalities. And we are also talking about a focus on criminology and social sciences about crime, insecurity and perception. The studies in the field of criminology in the world coincide that the probability of being a victim of a crime does not depend on the police presence or proximity of a police station, but on other data they have more to see with general, place of residence, age or social class. And a final debate that also seems important to us, also in the field of criminology, but also philosophical and moral: we speak of authority. We are legally clear as to what "authority" means. In fact, the deputies and deputies of this Parliament have authority; the masters have authority; the police are recognized, this authority, legally. What's the difference? That the police have the monopoly of the use of violence to make the laws complete. And the paper endures it all: to name families with violence, to stop social mobilizations or trade unions with violence, to act against certain collections for their origin or for their economic situation with violence..., and to do so in a framework of social crisis and inequality. These situations and this use of violence will get you to impose the authority. Sure. I'm sure they'll get it, but they'll only generate more violence, more rebuff and loss of any moral authority from whom you're ordering and, ultimately, from whom you have to complete these actions. So, what will be the only way to impose authority? Quantitatively? With more agents. Qualitatively? With more militarization. For us, a spiral that leads to disaster. And, to be sure, a dynamic that can be cut as quickly as possible. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.86.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.87.0	Thank you, President. Well, let's start with a debate that has arisen in one of the previous motions with a reference to the 2006 Statute – therefore, the currently existing Statute – which, in its preamble and without being affected by the judgment of the 2010 Constitutional Court – which did affect other parts of the preamble –..., therefore, in force, right? , and legal and constitutional, says the following: «... following the experience of the preamble of the 1979 Statute, and therefore, taking a historical thread, « this Statute – that of 2006 –» assumes that: Catalonia is a rich country in territories and nations, a diversity that defines it and enriches it from the past and strengthens it for the time to come. So let's not manipulate. The legal texts that you defend, the legal texts of the mark of the constitutional bloc currently in force, recognize Catalonia as a country. So let's stop saying that Catalonia is not a country, because it is. And not only that, but Catalonia is a diverse and plural country. And that's his problem, that you have a flair for diversity, you have a flair for plurality. And, mirin, we won't vote against this young man just because he introduced her to VOX. We will vote against it because we are radically against everyone and every single one of their points. Because, according to you... you repeatedly claim that people who are migrated are natural criminals, that they are the ones who create insecurity in our barrels, that they are the ones who occupy habitats, that they are the ones who grow marijuana. Look, all this, apart from being fake, obviously, is deeply buried. Do not consider people migrated as people. They're deeply inhuman to you. And they have the bar to come here to tell us yet to think with our conscience. But what awareness do you have, when you treat people who are migrated in this way? What's his conscience? [[Greetings.]] Because it is that, moreover, you fall permanently into what is said in the social sciences "ecological fallacy". Look, I can prove to you, if you want, with data, that in those territories where there are more cygonies there are also more nascents, because in the territories where there are more bellies there are more cygonies, and therefore there is more population, and therefore there are more nascents, but from here there is no direct relationship between cygonies and nascents; so... we all know, don't we? People are not born of storks. And this is what you do permanently with immigration and crime: they relate two concepts between which there is no causal relationship. So stop doing it once in a while. Look, in the face of its nationalism, which is a nationalism that is out, because you... there are only those who are like you; you exclude those who are different, out of diversity, out of multi-nationality, out of everything that is not like you..., before this, we have another concept, that is the concept of "a people's sun, that concept Josep Benet coined year 68, which was used at the event of year 77 – certainly, Josep Benet, which was chosen senator with more votes from all over the State of 77. And he said to us: "In this work – and in this fight, I would say – we find all the citizens of this country of ours who want to live in democracy and freedom..., "...all claiming that the teaching of the Catalan Idiom is a reality for everyone, because in Catalonia no one can feel discriminated by reason of the Idiom. Because one and the other, Catalans of lineage and we Catalans, we form a people_sol. And this is the sense of the expression "a people's sun, the recognition of the diversity that we have as a country, the recognition of our plurality, that we are all Catalans and Catalans on equal terms, just as you deny with your nationalism they are out. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.88.0	Then, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, the Member of Parliament, Ms Lorena Roldán, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.89.0	Yes; thank you very much, Madam President. Well, we're going to vote yes to most points of this motion. It is true that there is one of them, the last of the motion, which speaks precisely of the subject of early retirement, which we too have included in our motion, and, in fact, we have not amended it, because we have a point already in that motion which is a little contradictory to the one that asks the motion of VOX in this sense, which wants it to be equated with the early retirement – he says – that the agents of the National Police Corps have, which is not exactly the early retirement that we are asking for. They have an active reservation, and Mossos d'Esquadra asks us, what it demands, is that it be an early retirement comparable to that of the police of the Ertzainza, of the Basque Country. That is why we are going to abstain on this point, and I explain why we have not tabled an amendment, since we are correcting it, let us say, with our motion. I insist that the rest of the points seem reasonable to us. Many of them call not on the Government of the Generalitat, but on the Government of Spain itself, and they are claims that the People's Party has also sent to the Congress of Deputies in the form of a bill and also of PNL, in this regard, to amend the Criminal Code and also to amend the criminal prosecution law on the subject of multi-recidence. It's very frustrating, and the agents themselves tell us, how you play your life to stop a criminal today and the next day he's back on the street and again delinquent. And, therefore, I think we need to tackle this issue of multirecidence. And, therefore, we also agree on these points. And then there is a point, which is number 7, which I want to read, because it says: "That the Interior Council urges the criminal prosecution and illegalization of entities and associations that clearly promote the crime of occupation and the mafias of illegal occupation, who call for delinquency through manuals or books published or distributed on social networks. Man, here..., I'm afraid this point is not going to get approved, basically because one of these entities and associations that publish manuals that call for delinquency and okupar real estate are precisely the youths of the CUP, the lords of Arran, who have this manual of okuupation. [[The speaker shows a full camera.]] You can see here the stamina to enter by force, and you take your fist out as proud, can't you? , from this manual. Well, I'll explain this manual a little bit. In this manual, the lords of Arran, who are the preferred partners of the Government of the Generalitat, advise on how to choose housing, mock the police, change locks and pinch light and water. They say... besides, they explain how you have to do it to make fun of the police. They tell you: "In certain cases it may be interesting to block traffic for a few minutes to cover the back of the entry group. A car wrecked with the hood open, someone drunk to fall in the middle of the street... use the imagination. This is literal from the CUP Youth Okupation Manual. They also say: "The number one rule is to try not to enter violently, and if it is essential to do so, try not to be seen and carry everything necessary to not have to go out for the first three days and thus avoid an express eviction. They also say: "You must never let any policeman in, neither in uniform nor in plainclothes, if you do not have a court order, and even if you have it, it is better to hold the door. The truth is, it gives every luxury of details, the manual. It's you..., when you want, you cure it; on the issues of Parliament already..., and to defend the citizenry, no, but to explain how to enter the buildings by force..., for that yes. The manual concludes with a technical section on how to open the locks and how to also pinch the light and water, and you also include photos of the necessary tools included. Come on, they're missing here the... I don't know, a discount coupon at the Leroy Merlin to go buy all the tools. Really – truly – this is an ignominy. And again I insist, Mr. Elena: that these people be the ones who are dictating how the police model or the security model in Catalonia has to be..., it seems to me that it is unacceptable – unacceptable. Then, in my motion, I will have occasion to delve into this subject, but it is that you cannot put the bitch to take care of the henman. I'm very sorry, but people who edit a manual and who here today, in parliamentary office, are proud of this manual, which gives instructions to mock the police, to enter by force, to turn on the light..., is that it is a shame. Then we talked about undermining the principle of authority of the mossos... because it doesn't surprise me. And these gentlemen, I insist, are your preferred partners, and you are listening to what they dictate to your ear. Frankly, I think you should rethink this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.90.0	Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the words of Mr Joan Carles Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.91.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs... Well, we're in front of a young man, the truth, with an ideological bias – it's been said – very characteristic of VOX, isn't it? : « new forms of crime imported from abroad, « separatist violence, « brimo increase, « make available to the competent authority in foreign affairs to those guilty of criminal acts committed by foreigners, both legal and illegal... Only those who failed to impose « closure TV3, eliminate the autonomous communities and suppress the chiringuitos and have held the monopoly of all the discourses to which we are accustomed. [[Some applause.]] On the subject of the foreigner collection, a reflection, if you are able to think more about his ideology of falling as a fetishist: the report of the UdL says that the generational renewal of small and medium-sized municipalities goes through immigration of foreign origin, which, depending on their opportunities to find work, bet to live there as the only hope of survival of these municipalities of Catalonia. Reflection. You also know, more than anything else – what's going on, they don't say it – that, once a girl corrects them by age, by gender, and by looking out for economics, the foreign population doesn't delude more than the native population. What's going on, that's not what they're saying either. And this is a reality that would be appreciated at the time of making criminal contributions to foreign crime. The mantra of the definitive solution: the endurition of the Criminal Code. First, that the responsible must not be the Parliament of Catalonia, but that must be done in Madrid. But you know that the tightening of the penal code that occurred in 1995 caused prison chaos in the Spanish prisons. In the year 2000, 45,000 prisoners and internees went to more than 76,000 in the year 2009, from residents to prisoners in Spain. As a result, the 2010 and 2015 reforms eased the situation, because, if not, you have been an inexhaustible chaotic situation. Taking into account that every press, every intern, costs seventy euros a day– two thousand euros a month– to the Administration, they should explain, this hardening and this increase in the prison population, as they would pay, because they don't say that, either, they do. Pushing taxes is the only solution, but that's the people... of course, their people, who have to vote for them... that's not a speech you can pass on, but it's reality. What you are proposing increases the prison population in an exorbitant way that would be inexhaustible for Spanish and Catalan administrations. Later, they talk about the defense of the Mossos d'Esquadra. I already did it in committee, but I do it in plenary, because I think it means something. Mr Ortega Smith, 20 of the X of 2020: "Mr. Trapero's absolution is a shame, he is the head of a band of thugs at the head of the Mossos d'Esquadra. That's the defense you make of the squadron moss. They don't have the credibility to come here to defend the squadron moss. The Squads are not defending themselves by shouting, but by defending them with actions, actions as the Generality has done, and as they are now: more effective, more resources, more tools, etc. That's how he defends the squadron moss, in this sense. You need this intervention to thank and recognize all the police in Catalonia for their task, their professionalism and their effort, which have helped keep the country orderly and secure at such a difficult time that we have been living these past two years. I, finally, the other mantra: "Separatist violence of order. So miri, no. There is no separatist violence. You just have to do a very simple exercise: go to a digital diary that has been uploaded to the internet where there are independent demonstrations of why they are independent. Joan Josep Isern: "Because I want my granddaughter to grow up in a friendly country, ready, upright, cult, welcoming and happy. Gemma Pasqual: "I am an independentist because I cherish my land. I'm also an independentist because I want to! @namedeu: « By survival instinct. Joan-Lluís Lluís: "I am an independentist for gratitude to a country, a language, a people – so many, so many people. Josep Musach: "For intransigence, envy, systemic lies and hatred in Catalonia that leaders of Spanish governments have driven for many years. That's being independent. Being independent is a feeling, not being a criminal. Rather than relate independence to crime. Being an independentist is a feeling, and you will have to feel it as often as you do, because despite the fact that you continue to win elections, despite the fact that you exist, despite the fact that you are there. And sooner than later – I don't forget – we'll stop being independentists to make ourselves independent. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.92.0	And, finally, has the word, on behalf of the parliamentary groups, Mr Jaume Butinyà, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.93.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Most of the present work and devote a lot of effort to getting a more free, cohesive, equal-opportunities society every day; ultimately, a better society. When we imagine a police force for our society, we want that police force to be representative, that it is actually in the service of the citizenry, and, consequently, that it is democratic, close, that it is for the freedom and security of the citizen, that they allow the exercise of the rights of the collective and individual in the legal order. The police of Catalonia that we want is a police that has as its main mission the protection of freedom and security of our lives. Team movements must give and serve the community they are part of; therefore, with the task of vetting for good travel, in cooperation with other social workers in preventive and care settings. This is the police we want. A legitimate cop. A police officer who is recognized by his authority, an authority that is not won with violence or repression. An authority that doesn't win through penal codes, as you ask. The authority will gain with closeness, complicity, being prepared to give help and service where and when asked, disauthorizing and condemning practices such as were produced long enough in police stations such as Via Laietana – practices that the only one they have managed is to extend the police services of the city. That is why, and for many other reasons, we oppose its demand to urge the Spanish Government to "maintain the Chief of Police in Catalonia". This space we want to retrieve the historical memory. And, of course, reading the motion they're presenting, the police model that we're likely to have an opportunity to debate in the study committee has a lot or nothing to do with theirs. You want a police officer – and so you write – "to fight, to fight illegal immigration, to face new forms of crime imported from abroad. His discriminating attitude and constant hatred does not go wrong. For us the police must act in a preventive manner, proportionally – if that is the case – cooperating. We don't want me to fight or fight, and we don't want me to act partisanly against people who think different. We don't want a police force that I'm persecuting and criminalizing, as you do with the social movements that fight against housing emergence. How do they link immigration and crime or religion and terrorism? Allow me a tip: travel, see the world and I don't care about the unknown. In his youth they fall into constant contradictions, asking the squadron to control the border; but, unfortunately, this police officer does not have this competence. If border control was a particular competence of the Generality, of course we would not exercise it to prevent the arrival of people who come and come to work with us, seeking refuge or..., persecution and conflict. The Government of Catalonia understands the arrival of people as an act, and therefore makes efforts to attract entrepreneurs, workers, scientists and European agencies to settle in our cities. Or do they think, perhaps, that when they think of immigration they only have present workers who come to work as hard as fruit drops or to take care of our opinions? Did they stop to think that what might happen, sooner or later, is that they're a classy glue? You're asking the Interior Councillor for more resources, to increase the seedlings of the squadron's movements... But this has already been said, here: our Councillor has already told us that we are moving forward with the next call of 860 seats more than future police officers. And yes, we will vote against this young man, and not because the present VOX, but because our model is completely different from his. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.94.0	In Darrer terme, to pronounce on the papers presented, has the word the Lord Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.95.0	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank Citizens for the amendment they have made to our measure No 11, because it improves the text. Thank you. With regard to the issues of irregular immigration, illegal immigration and increased crime, you kill the messenger, put a blindfold in your eyes. Look, we recognize without complexes that this relationship occurs. Of course we say this, because it is not xenophobia to find that the five jihadists who have been arrested in Barcelona and Madrid, all Algerians, entered the patera by Almería. It is not xenophobia to report that, on 7 October, eight illegal Argentines beat up a legal Moroccan taxi driver, an honest man, who works with women and children; they beat up eight Algerians who have knocked him out. That, gentlemen, is not xenophobia; that is to recognize a reality. Look, Mr Swordler, you have a lot of fondness for the word'multicultural terns', you have told me several times. Their policies of immigration invasion carried out by the Government of the nation provoke these cultural outcrops, which are nothing other than those non-go areas, where the law no longer prevails. And I, if you like, one day take some of them. In the Vendrell we have a..., there are many places where they have those areas, where the law no longer prevails. That's what we're talking about when we talk about multicultural terns. And, look, I just want to say one thing to you at the end: meditate, reflect, as you are already doing in other parts of Europe. Because either you are the ones who do not want to see what is happening or I fear – and that would be much more serious – who are the ones who want to cover up the truth. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.96.0	So you haven't asked for a separate vote... [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Roldan?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.97.0	Yes, I'm sorry, President, what I said to the intervention. Vote separate from the last point of the motion, number 20.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.98.0	Point number 20. [[Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. White Martin.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.99.0	Yes, President. To ask for a separate vote on points 2, 15 and 19.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.100.0	That I understand they could go together, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.101.0	Yeah. They could go together, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.102.0	Okay. [[Joan Garriga Doménech asks to speak.]] I Mr. Garriga...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.103.0	Yes, President. It was to be asked if we could read points 9 and 19, before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.104.0	Reading points 9 and 19. Let's start, then, by voting points 2, 15..., and we'll first read point 19, before we do this vote on point 19. So I'd ask the secretary first to read point 19.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.105.0	"That the Council of the Interior puts all the means at its disposal to combat radical Islamism or jihadism integrist, promotes the expulsion of Salafist magnets and resolutely fights forced marriages of underage girls.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.106.0	The vote begins. These points were not approved, and they received 19 votes in favour and 114 votes against. We're voting point 20 now. The vote begins. Point number 20 hasn't been approved either. He obtained 15 votes in favour, 114 votes against, 2 abstentions and two people who did not vote. We will now proceed to the reading of point number 9. He's going to take her to the end of Secretary Four.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.107.0	"That the Council of the Interior establish a plan to strengthen both institutionally and in the media the image of the Mossos d'Esquadra and the rest of the police forces acting in Catalonia – Civil Guard, National Police, urban guards and local police –, encouraging the respect and the principle of authority of these police forces, acting in defense of democracy and coexistence, from respect and submission to the law without ideological and political interference.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.108.0	We shall therefore proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The rest of the points have not been approved. They got 19 votes in favour and 114 votes against. Let's move on to the twenty-two on the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on citizen security, presented by the Joint Group. Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word to make her presentation. [[Matías Alonso Ruiz asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.109.0	Yes, President. Just to make it clear that I don't think the whole place has been voted on. We had asked for a separate vote that we have not seen, from point number 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.110.0	Two, 15 and 19?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.111.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.112.0	It ended in the first place. That is why we proceeded to the reading of item 19, in order to be able to vote...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.113.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.114.0	...these three points together. I asked if they could vote together, and your spokesman said yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.115.0	So actually the point read from the table I understand is point 18, not point 19. So, we...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.116.0	It's read...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.117.0	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.118.0	No, we haven't had a proper vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.119.0	No, no, Points 9 and 19 have been read. First point 19, in order to be part of the vote that you asked for, and then the fourth secretary made the reading of point 9.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.120.0	Because you don't have the final text...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.121.0	You mean they didn't read the papers?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.122.0	You don't have the final text, I think. You don't have the final text. In the final text there is a change of points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.123.0	So I'm going back to calling for a vote, because there are deputies out there. You see, there wasn't the... the secretary didn't read the final version with the papers. [[Widow's remorse.]] We do not repeat the vote. We'll just do the reading... the point has been voted on. We'll do the reading of the dot with the complete exams. I shouted because all the deputies were present in the room, because they came out before they could read. [[Matías Alonso Ruiz asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.124.0	Yes, President. Only to show, therefore, the sentiment of our vote. We... have read point 18; therefore, we thought we were going to vote point 18, but in any case, the feeling of the vote would have been different from what happened. At points 2, 15 and 19 our vote would have been abstaining; in this case, it will count as positive.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.125.0	Secretaries, and I can proceed to reading...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.126.0	Thank you, President. I'm sorry about the previous mistake. I had been provided with a text that did not match the final text. "Promote and strengthen the Polièdric action plan to combat the high crime of unaccompanied foreign minors, and publish with complete transparency the results of its implementation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.127.0	Anyway – thank you, secretaries – we take note of the..., we will include in the record the sentiment of the vote expressed now for Mr Matías Alonso. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into citizen security]] [[302-00041/13]] So, now, let's get to the twenty-two point. And you have the word, to make the young lady's presentation, Mrs. Lorena Roldán. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, I'd ask the deputies to drop the silent session. Forward, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.128.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, we're done with this marathon citizen security session. I want to focus on the specific points of the motion. It will not give me time to enter absolutely everyone, but those we consider priority from my group. One of them – I have already made progress in previous interventions – is that of early retirement. I believe that there is a broad consensus here, and even you yourself have expressed it, so that the mossos d'ésquadra can access this early retirement. In the interpellation you replied that it had been the People's Party, the People's Party Government in Congress, that had paralyzed the subject of early retirement. I have to say no. At that time I did not have time to reply, but I explain it to you now, so that it is clear. Look, the procedure to recognize the right to the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra of early retirement began on July 27, 2012 by the People's Party government. A few days later, on July 30, 2012, a report was requested from the Generalitat to detail which mossos d'esquadra should have access to this early retirement, both those who were active at that time and those who were not already in the body. Well, the Generalitat didn't answer until three years later. In October 2015 it was when the Generalitat sent the details of the seventeen_ thousand mossos d'ésquadra that were entitled to the application of reducing coefficients. They are unacceptable, that disdain and that lack of competence for members of the Catalan police. The administration of the People's Party continued to work in this regard. The previous report on the allocation of reducing coefficients was issued in 2016; on 12 September 2017, the mandatory report for the Secretariat of State was processed, but coinciding with the entry into the Government of the Socialist Party nothing was done: nothing was done by the Government of Spain and nothing was done by the Government of the Generalitat either. Therefore, if you really want to show that you are in favour of getting that early retirement, I told you the other day: you can do it perfectly and now you have the opportunity, with the budgets of the Government of the Generalitat. Include that item with the over-quotisation necessary for mossos to have access to early retirement, as you yourself have promised the unions for a very long time. We in the motion include this point. I hope that the groups supporting the Government will vote in favour of this issue, and if not, of course, they will have an amendment to the general budgets – if they do not include this item of over-quotisation of the People's Party Group. More stuff. The issue of covid pay, that extraordinary pay, let us say, which was promised to them at the Police Council by Mr Pere Ferrer, Director General of the Police at the time. Look, on Tuesday, Councillor Elena, at the doors of this demonstration that the unions have convened for this Saturday – in which I announce that, of course, we will be present, supporting these demands of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps and also of the Local Police –, you put into value your work during the pandemic, coming to affirm that "if this dedication did not occur, we could hardly have managed this year and half of the pandemic. And you compared that vocation of service to that of the health care workers in Catalonia. Well, if that is the case, let us put into practice this thank you, Mr. Elena, that it does not remain in empty words. You promised this extra covid pay, and therefore keep your promise. Let us not keep empty words; let us go to the acts, let us go to the concrete facts. And it is also that I remind you that you still have more justification, this extraordinary gratification, when it has been declared by the High Court of Justice of Catalonia itself that Interior violated the rights of protection and risk prevention of all agents, as in the case of Ódena, where they were exposed directly and without protection to a pandemic that has left more than one hundred thousand dead in Spain. Therefore, if you truly support and acknowledge the work of the Mossos d'Esquadra, which I believe is so, do not just stick to the words and let us turn to the facts. And, by the way, keep their promises, because they told them they were going to collect that pay—there is also a point in the motion about it. I only have thirty seconds left. We have more issues, such as the bad state of police vehicles, such as the decompensation of salaries with other special bodies – today, more than three thousand euros of difference – and, above all, the issue I told you before: it cannot be that the mossos call for a demonstration on Saturday and their answer is to put the CUP to chair the commission on the study of public order in Catalonia. I repeat: it is to put the bitch to take care of the henman. And it's inadmissible, Mr. Elena. And the mossos don't deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.129.0	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Antonio Ramón López is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.130.0	Good afternoon, Madam President. Deputies... Presents us, the Joint Group, a motion on citizen security and mossos d'esquadra to improve the service they present to citizens. We subscribe to the initiative, but with some nuances. Catalonia is the region of Spain where insecurity has increased the most in recent years and where more crimes are committed, according to the data of the Statistical System of Criminality of the Ministry of Interior. This situation is the responsibility of the successive governments of the Generalitat, which have prioritized their rupturist ideology to the common good, investing money in our region in secessionist projects, abandoning the forces and security forces of the State, undermining the principle of authority, generating legal insecurity and breaking the coexistence between citizens. Our parliamentary group has presented several initiatives on citizen insecurity and to equip the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps with the means to carry out its work effectively: motion for a resolution on citizen security, April 2021; motion for a resolution on the Mobile Brigade Area – Brimo – May 2021; motion for a resolution to improve the facilities of the Catalan Police School, May 2021. And so I could quote many more. Today the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps cannot act with absolute political neutrality and impartiality. It has magnificent professionals, but instrumentalized by separatism. It is a police force that many of its commanders are politicized, where meritocracy and capacity have gone into the background. All you have to do is watch Mr. Pere Ferrer's Twitter, director general of the Mossos. I quote a tweet quoted on October 1, 2021: "Neither oblit nor lost, and, as hashtag, #1doctubre2017. And so I could continue quoting tweets and retweets for hours. Look, this has the same impartiality as it does for me to tell you that I'm blond and that I have a big mess. Anyway... For this reason, in our proposals in the general policy debate, being aware of the situation suffered by the actors, we present, among other things..., measures aimed at the depoliticization of the Mossos d'Esquadra to ensure their neutrality, establishing promotion mechanisms based on the principles of equality, merit and capacity. There is a need for collaboration and coordination between the various bodies and security forces of the State and for the operational reorganization of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps to stop being at the service of the separatist project and achieve the goal of a safe Catalonia. I would like to make a special mention of the latest initiative presented by the Joint Group on the withdrawal of the appeal lodged by the legal services of the Generalitat against the sentence of conviction of the criminal Marcel Vivet, which we all know, for crimes of public disorder and attacks against the agents of the Corps de Mossos d'Esquadra. I can only say that it is a shame that they are thus unprotecting agents who are fulfilling their role of citizen protection and security, and instead protecting and applauding a criminal. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no coincidence that they call us ultras the same people who attack our police officers; it is clear that we are on the right side of history. Finally, our parliamentary group wants to acknowledge the work done by our state security forces and bodies – Civil Guard, National Police, Mossos d'Esquadra and Local Police – to guarantee rights, freedoms and security in our region. In the face of the permanent abandonment of the separatist elites on the left, they will always count on our recognition and support to ensure the safety of all Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.131.0	Then, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, has the words of Mr Ramon Espadaler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.132.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Like the previous motion, this also has a disparity of themes, a part of which is of work, professional character, recognition, some other authority – which I said I would like to mention a little – and the concept of this, too, of defence. Therefore, I do not have the capacity, in four minutes and therefore, to enter into the detail of each of the themes. Yes... to announce that we will give support to the assembly of the young man. We have made a point to make a perspective that we find to be missing a lot in the debates here in Parliament, which is the local perspective. There are mayors and mayors here. Every time the municipal issue is more absent from the parliamentary debate. I recall the general policy debate: there was no single element, on the part of the Government, of municipal policy. So, we've also incorporated a little of this visit. And we appreciate, therefore, the representative of the Joint Group who has had the detail of incorporating this item. About authority. We were going to be I believe that the first group that we put – and we put it into the general policy debate – the concept of the authority of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra as a question to preserve: the authority that is given to them by the plate, by knowledge, by legal recognition and by the authorities, which in some way must be won, therefore, with an action on the road that is defendable, that is transparent, that is efficient, that is effective, that is obviously in agreement with what you read. We're still thinking the same thing. There's a demonstration called for this disbandment. Perhaps that vote triggered a larval situation that was not in the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, but in the body and in the joint of police who felt helpless for the government, and therefore provoked this demonstration. We're still where we were: defending the authority and asking the government to face up to this authority of the Squad Coast. Which is also done – according to concept –, therefore, defend them in front of the courts. Believe me, there's nothing more unfair or unfair than treating things in the same way that are different. And we radically disagree with the words..., yesterday the same president of the Generality gave them – and I say this from the utmost respect to the institution and to the presidency and to the person –..., said: "Listen, we will treat them as well as the rest of you will work and give them the defense of the Central Judicial Cabinet. So I'm sorry, no, it's that they're different from the rest of you, and therefore, they require a specialized defense, which is what they have. Or have they ever heard of a police union or a move to ask, please, for a different defense? They have a different defense. And it's done from the Interior Department and not from the Presidency for two reasons, basically. The first, because they have the monopoly of the use of force – some will say ‘of violence, some manuals say it' – and, therefore, they have a type of potential crimes very different from the rest of the functional ones, which they probably have, therefore, prevarication, that they have the discovery of secrets... The movements are subject to another type, and therefore require this specificity. Therefore, we continue to defend – with little success, I see, but we will not fail to say – the need to defend them as they are, from the Department of Interior. There's a derivative, this question, minor people. It is to say, listen, from an indifference that the Department of the Interior does not directly follow, that we discriminate which acts are translated into dispatches and charges and which are not. And we've seen this, and we'll see this, because we'll get to the bottom of this. And if there are responsibilities, of the nature that follows, we will demand them. Therefore, respect the authority, that, and respect the defense, therefore, what we have told you. And then there is a whole other package of proposals that they have a lot to see above all on working conditions. We are still defenders and supporters of moving forward on one thing that is justice – and let's say things for his name – that is the whole issue of equipping the same retirement level as the rest of the police bodies..., carried by two, at the level of the State, that they are the Squadron Mosses and another, smaller in size, equal in honor and credibility, that it is the Navarrasa Foral Police – they are the ones who have not yet had this recognition and that they have to resort to this way. Therefore, we give our support in the terms in which it has been expressed, that we are urging the Government... Or, if you want to – let's put it a lot in place – that we give it all our support so that they can talk in those areas where this is to be done, in the prisons that have... There's a part that I suppose you should be able to talk to the Security Council of Catalonia and other prisons; I think they are more. The counselor tells me it's more like this... [[The timer laughs.]] So it is possible to raise this issue. And, therefore, they will count on our support. Therefore, we will vote on this proposal from the Joint Group. And we do want to make these two questions, because they don't seem smaller to us. And as many times as any, therefore, we will defend the authority of the moves, also from this perspective of defending them in their actions. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.133.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the words of Mr Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.134.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... We present the PP, the Group Mixt, an extensive motion, of twenty-and-a-points, as if by a marathon is drawn, that we most of us will vote in favour of most points. Vote against a few points. We will vote against those points that have as their object to enter into a more substantive analysis of the model of security, of the model of police, because, in the measure that we have just approved a study commission on the model of security of Catalonia, it seems to us inappropriate to present it at this time in a debate of this patent. And we will vote against it – we went to vote in favour, but we will vote against it – points 3 and 5a, which you have come to agree with your VOX members. And, therefore, we, for democratic hygiene, will vote against it. [[Greetings.]] But we would, of course, vote in favour of all those points, which are the majority, which have as their object to gather, give support, recognize the huge pocket that ends the moves, etc. Naturally we'll pick them up. But I don't want to fail to denounce the opportunism, the demagogicism and even the cynicism of his youth. Opportunity, because they are using political supporters of the Mossos surely to give visibility to such an insignificant group in this Parliament. And, in any case, cynicism: you have never trusted the Squad Mosses. I remember that when you were in office, you couldn't increase the number of squadron movements required. You even challenged the call for five hundred seats, which were reduced to fifty. [[Greetings.]] While you were ruling, you prevented the moves from accessing the material and equipment needed to fight terrorism in one country, Catalonia – just like Spain, just like all Europe – with a 4th anti-terrorist alert. While you were ruling, you prevented the access of the moves to the CITCO database; perhaps the moves would have known that Ripoll's image had already been involved in the Chacal operation. [[applause]] And you could've avoided a serious rush. You applied a 155, and the first one you did was to cease the secretary general of the department, Mr. Cèsar Puig, the director general, Mr. Pere Ferrer, and the major of the Mossos, Mr. Josep Lluís Trapero. [[Greetings.]] The most prominent leaders of his party accused the movements of "attacks", of "exercise in the service of crime; they engaged them in a procedure in which they faced eleven years of imprisonment. And you would do very well to read the sentence dictated by the National Audience, because not only the absolvements, but that praises the pocket of the moves on October 1. He says that this is the expected behaviour of a democratic police force, in contrast to what other police forces did, that they engaged in disproportionate and unnecessary violence against civilians who only wanted to vote. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, you do not have any credibility calling for recovery, defense, recognition, praise for the Squad's Cos de Mossos. The first thing you must do is ask forgiveness; ask forgiveness of Mr. Cèsar Puig [[applause perlongats]] , asked for the forgiveness of Mr. Pere Ferrer, asked for the forgiveness of Mr. Josep Lluís Trapero, Ms. Teresa Laplana ; all the prefecture, who also saw involved in various judicial proceedings. You have to readjust the sentence and ask for forgiveness. Until I forgive you, you have no credibility. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.135.0	And, finally, in the defense of the papers presented, has the word the deputy Mr Carles Castillo, of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.136.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Mrs Roldán, Members of the People's Party, we often fall into the contempt of the adversary for purely party reasons. And I want to start by making an early recognizance; then I'm going to put, too, a huge one, which somehow has sprung up the whole thing that we might have gotten into this young man. But, as I say, I want to start with a recon. Your motion, above all the initial text, is a good one, a lot different from how you asked the question, and also, if I may say so, a lot different from what the president of your group did yesterday when he asked the President of the Generality. It is an issue in which we must be especially strict, especially serious. And it seems to me that it is fair to point out that there has been a certain generosity in the present young man at the time of writing some of the points so that they are likely to achieve, in this chamber, the maximum political support. Then, it's true that they've got a lot on it, they've got it off with some ultra-threat deals that were completely unnecessary, that don't fit if, in fact, it's trying to look for the sake of the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. They have forced us to activate the anti-feixist pact of this Parliament, and, as a result, they force us to vote against the points that they have agreed, without entering even so alone in the content. That's a big deal, because it could have been all very different. In the matter of security, we all keep our mouths shut so that the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra does not form part of the political struggle. And all the games, all of them, at some point or other, with more or less consciousness, we've put them in the middle or to attack the opponent or to point medals at us that move and move do not serve them for nothing. It seems to me much more interesting to be able to reach agreements between those we think are different, even between those who – ladies and gentlemen of the PP, like us – think very different; to be able to demonstrate that there are fears that the least responsible political groups can agree with us despite our ideological differences, which naturally are and will be there. So, first of all, Mrs. Roldán, thank you for this initial task of finding the points of agreement. The huge amount of money has been his deal with the two-point ultrathreat we had at least one way out to be able to make a deal with each other. His game with the ultrathreat did not stop all of Europe, where democratic parties, and even all of the dreets—see Merkel—condemn them to irrelevance. Still, the Republican Left Group, making an effort, thinking of moves and moves, will practically approve the seventy per cent of the motion: thirteen points of the twenty-one that there is. But, I insist, it was a big deal. There have also been a few points about which it has not been possible to reach agreement. I'll explain to them a little bit. From point 5.c, regarding compensation to members of the Squadron's Body who have suffered injuries..., you proposed that the rebin from the time of the high medicine, and we proposed that we keep it in the shortest possible time, advancing this compensation to the judicial execution from the declaration of insolvency of the person sentenced to satisfy the compensation. You see the problem, the issue, when there are injuries and there is no condemnation, but... two things: if there is no condemnation, there is no crime, and, moreover, if there are injuries and there is no official cause, the Generality is not and will be responsible for it. With regard to the 5.g, the extraordinary pay supplement for the service performed during covid-19, we vote against the point not because we do not think that the moves should have this recognition, but because we respect the spaces where the move unions and the government have to settle it, which is to the Consell de la Policia. From Parliament we must avoid interference in the social dialogue and respect the voice of the movement unions and the spaces of interlocution they have. At the 5th point, we vote against because you have agreed to maintain the return of legal defence to the department in a strict manner. We have offered to study the application of the change to ensure that there are no harmful effects for any member of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. They didn't want to accept it. But I say one thing about it: the government and the Republican Left Group of Catalonia would never stop defending the moves. If a member of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra suffers any aggression or injury, he will, of course, be defended for the Government of Catalonia, working to obtain his rescue, and now – we consider – even with more guarantees, giving up even the whole week's head, that he did not exist before; counting on the same professionals of the past, who have now joined the Judicial Cabinet, as with the rest of the professionals of the Judicial Cabinet of the whole Generality. I have no doubt that no move or move will cease to have the support of the Government of Catalonia, the Department of the Interior and its Councillor. There are other points that we are voting against, but all the same... In general, what I said to the principle: I think that there was a good young man, with very specific points, and that we had a debate and interesting mutual contributions, demonstrating that it is possible to reach consensus in important matters between very different groups. That's right, with the point that I can't help but say, and it's that all folded away for unnecessary dealings with the ultrathreat. And as a few seconds remain and it's fashionable to read some things, I'll read some pearls of these your favorite partners. April 19: « VOX promises to dissolve the Mosses ; March 30th 19: « VOX promises to dissolve the Mosses and dissolve the Generality ; September 16th 18: « Abascal calls for the dissolution of the Mosses ; August 29th 18: « Abascal accuses the Mosses of passiveness in the solution of crimes ; November 8th 17th: « Abascal accuses the Mosses of taking a summer. These are their preferred partners. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.137.0	Next, to fix his position, he has the word, in the name of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle to Win, Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.138.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon. Let's get into this last act, and there we are, truly, with some concern. That is to say, beyond the will of these three groups, between the conservative right and the extreme right, we see how, for certain reasons the result of pressure, to try to put out fires, to look at "courtterminists, where a policy is often imposed at short notice than a longer-term view, if lshi ends up dancing the game in many of the motions, through transactions, through common resolutions... Each parliamentary group and the government can do what they want; in any case, we think it is a mistake. That said, in this latest act we think it is important to talk about safety proposals. Short term: haemorrhages, let's stop them, and immediate shock plan. First, we need to demilitarize the police units. The police are a civilian body, dealing with civilians. It cannot be assimilated either to military tactics or to weapons with use or military origin. Second, it's like putting up with impunity in bad police practice. It takes immediate and decisive action in any possible bad practice, with absolute transparency. Third, to guarantee the rights of the community and social protest, to place the human rights at the centre. This means not applying the law bites, suspending private accusations against demonstrators, suspending collaboration with racially motivated beatings, and suspending arrests or undertakings resulting from being in an irregular administrative situation. And also put an end to the involvement of movements in the denunciations of vulnerable families. In short, to stop what ends up being a political and classist use of the police, which for us is the main source of the loss of legitimacy and of the loss of authority. At the end of the day, we believe that it is also important to plant and aim for certain reforms. We need to go to an extensive proposal that goes beyond the old and lapses model of a safety plan, which is limited, partial and ineffective. This means wide-ranging: priority sectoral interventions in the field of urban planning, urban design, social inequalities, gender, social integration and the framework of a range of towns, towns and cities. Second, an implication in the cross-sectional model, from various areas, not only from a security perspective. Therefore, an absolutely open plan in the areas of social services, territories, housing, social rights, civilians, education, etcetera. And, thirdly, the last ratio of police intervention: that police bodies have a proactive character and that they support these defined general plans, but that they do not intervene from the very first moment and that they do not need those responsible for carrying out social tasks that are the competence of other departments. Therefore, it is absolutely subsidiary of its actions. And, finally, that the short and medium-term look doesn't stop us from making a new model layout long-term, a model that for us must be community defense, that we believe is what can truly give security to the entire population. This requires profound changes in current social and economic models: obviously, reducing inequalities, but it may also be clear that the police can't be the greatest guarantors of keeping these inequalities, they can't make this paper happen. We believe that from the left, from the transformative left, we have the obligation to create a critical alternative to the current security model. We cannot afford a simple Lampedusian adaptation of the speech of reality, to the fact that all changes so that nothing changes. And to do that, we certainly don't have all the answers, but we do have proposals, and we want to put them on the table. It is necessary to redefine the parameters with which insecurity is measured, to reform the legislative framework, to modify the structures that conform to the system of criminal justice in the justice, police and prison trinomies. It would remove the exclusivity of defence from these structures and guarantee the rights of the citizens. We need to go to prevention and participation models. And to decriminalize social conflict subsist on the management of the conflict in the criminal justice system. Based on these premises, we think we can deploy a new integral model and a new paradigm based on community security. We think we need to redefine this police model and reform the police units. And we have a very clear reflection: if we don't do it from the left, if we don't do it from the transformative perspective, if we keep what is happening right now, accentuated by the context of inequalities, they will do it right and extreme right. We have an opportunity with government action, we have an opportunity with the Commission on the Police Model; don't let her lose. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.139.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, has the word, now, the deputy Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.140.0	Thank you, President. Let's finish the morning debate on security. Mrs Roldán, well, you know that our parliamentary group and its we have deep disagreements about many things, also about the parameters from which to analyze police actions, it is obvious. But in any case, we'll have time to debate them. I said that– and then we'll get back to something..., huh? – go ahead, MP, that our parliamentary group will vote in favour of many of the points that you put to us in this House. Because it is true that, unlike the two previous motions, which preceded the debate, you do make a series of proposals for the better of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, of their working conditions, of their working conditions and of their agents. And the truth is that in many of them we agree, and so we will gather them; they are questions that, in many of them, more than that, there is a broad consensus. That is to say, we agree that the collaboration between the Squad Coast and the local police should be improved. We agree that we should increase our effectiveness and call for new seats. We agree that the question of early retirement and the second activity should be resolved, that it is a difficult problem for the body in the next few years; that it should be a remuneration of the extraordinary hour over the ordinary hour; that it should be a working group dealing with the question of salary equipping, or that it should improve the assessment of work risks. In fact, in many of these questions..., in the last parliamentary term our parliamentary group has already put forward some proposals for a resolution on respect. That said, obviously we don't agree on everything. And we do not agree, for example, to return the legal defence of the agents to the judicial services of the Department of Interior. And here we disagree with the Socialist Group, because it is certain that the movements have some specificities, but not only the movements: also the sanitary, also the masters. Therefore, specificities can be found in all public workers. And in any case, what we may have to see is how some of the judicial services of the Presidency are looking for specialists perhaps in each question, but not just the movements have a specific task. We do not agree either with your answer, strictly'security', to the viscud situations at a later stage, such as those of the bottles. I've already told you before, we're presenting a young man this late where we think we can present a clearly differentiated approach to the issue. And we don't agree either in the persecution they make of political activism in cases like Marcel Vivet's. And this brings me to the main discrepancy that we have with you in this case, and that in fact you also share..., or that is shared in the motions that we have seen before from Citizens and VOX, and that the PSC is also taking up this report to some extent, and we are concerned that even the whole government may also be sharing the report. I am referring to the report of the crisis of authority of the Police of Catalonia. Mirin, we condemn, as it cannot otherwise be, any form of violence, and condemn any attack on the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and its equipment, starting with the attack they suffered at Vic's police station. So, go ahead and get on with it. But, said that, it is obvious that the monopoly of violence that has it is the State, and in Catalonia this monopoly of violence is exercised through the police of the Generality, which is the integral police in Catalonia. Therefore, the authority of the body has it, by legal mark, by means of resources. So I don't think it's right to question his authority. Converting a sequence of punctual facts that we have been able to live on later, which most probably have to see or can be explained, also, by a lack of forecasting or by some planning errors, for a band, surely, and certainly, for another band, by a series of structural elements of background, social change, of a situation of general discomfort in good part of the population, especially the young people, to whom we are denying the creation of future and hope times..., therefore, this situation, which is very complex, wants to simplify it in that we have a problem of authority with the Squadron's Cos, which seems to me to be dangerous. It is dangerous, because the receipts that can be derived – and we have seen it in all the motions that we have discussed today –..., the receipts that come from saying that we have a crisis of authority in the Squad Ways were directed at reducing rights and freedoms and strengthening the power of the one who already has or who else has. And that's dangerous. And today itself – and I finish – we saw a protestor absolved from the police version of assaulting him because there was a video that could prove it. But it's that, when there's no video, what prevails is the officer's assumption of truth. And that's a lot of danger, because there are offenses, like the timing of the authority, or now we've seen other cases where hate crime is being used in this sense, so it involves very big penises. And making these penises only about the presumption of truth to us seems to us to be a lot and a lot of danger. Thank you, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.141.0	Thank you, Congressman. And, finally, to fix his position, has the word Mr Matías Alonso, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.142.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, senyores i senyors deputats... This last motion of the monograph on security that we are debating today coincides with the previous one: both this motion of the Joint Group and the previous one in its original format, that of the VOX Group, therefore, have a total of twenty-one points. So far the coincidence. It is noted that the components of the Joint Group have a parliamentary shoot that makes their proposals more in line with the competence of this Parliament, with the area that, in this matter of public security, of public security, as expressed by the proposing group itself, falls within the competence of the Generalitat de Catalunya. We share the importance of recognition of the essential work carried out by both the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps and the local police regarding the maintenance of public security and the guarantee of public order in Catalonia. Of course, we would like to express our gratitude and support to all the members of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps and the local police for their tireless dedication to the protection of the rights and freedoms of all. Needless to say, we strongly condemn the violent attacks and attacks often suffered by police officers from both Mossos and local police. And, of course, we regret the serious weakening of the principle of authority suffered by mossos and local police in Catalonia. And we join in the call that this Parliament should make to all the public authorities, both within the Generalitat and within the local sphere, to act together to restore the authority of the security forces and forces. In fact, we recognize the importance of the essential work carried out by each and every security force and body, whether of the State, autonomous or local, because we firmly believe in the maintenance of public security and public order, because they are the best guarantee for the protection of the rights and public freedoms of all citizens. Perhaps the proposing parliamentary group should have included all members of the security forces and bodies that develop their essential public service in Catalonia, including explicitly the Civil Guard and National Police. In any case, I do not doubt that the Joint Group extends its recognition and support to all security forces and bodies, including those of the State, those directly dependent on the Government of Spain. In any case, we did not want to table an amendment in this regard, because I am also convinced that the members of the Civil Guard and the National Police do not doubt the support and recognition that we always give them everywhere. And, after all, this motion is aimed mainly at collecting the demands of the police unions, which are extended to a large part of the staff of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps and the various local police in Catalonia. Of the twenty-one points of the motion, the seventeen covered in paragraph 5, the points which are express requests to the Government of the Generalitat, become an extensive rosary of requests which have the indelible signature of trade union organizations. From the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans we understand this, and, without doubt, seen and read, we make them our own, because they are just and necessary. There is a great need for the Government of the Generalitat to support the members of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps and the local police in the performance of their duties, and to help restore and strengthen the principle of authority of police officers rather than spoil it, as is sometimes the case. It must be emphasized that the Generalitat should appear as an accusation in defence of the mossos who suffer assaults and injuries in the course of their service, and that those who suffer injuries in the performance of their duties should be compensated. The Generalitat should improve the collaboration and coordination of the Mossos with local police in all municipalities, but in particular where they have a higher rate of citizen insecurity. This cooperation and coordination, agreed and agreed through the Security Boards, should be extended, where necessary, to the State's security forces and bodies. Although this is the usual practice in most security boards, this issue, that of the collaboration and coordination of security forces and bodies, must always be a priority and must be subject to a process of continuous improvement that ensures the greatest effectiveness in police action. And yes, we also agree that it is shameful for the Generalitat to resort to a sentence for considering excessive the penalty imposed on an individual who has assaulted a mosso d'ésquadra in an act of service. It is not acceptable for the Generalitat, in this case, to side with the aggressor when a sentence has been handed down. Finally, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group is going to support this motion because it seems to us correct and timely, and I therefore announce to you our vote in favour. What is now to be expected is that the part of this motion which is to be adopted in the majority, which is why I felt today in this debate in this Parliament, will then be properly complied with by the Government of the Generalitat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.143.0	I, finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the parable of Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.144.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, first of all, thank you for the amendments that have been tabled by several groups. Some of them we've been able to accept, some of them not. Mr Castillo, you regretted that we would have accepted the amendment of VOX, an amendment that you do is to recognize the work of the state security forces and bodies that provide their services in Catalonia and that condemns the attacks that are suffering those forces and bodies here in Catalonia. I tell you that whenever there is an amendment to thank the work of the bodies destined here in Catalonia and to condemn the violence, I will always accept it, the present VOX or the present Rita the Cantaora. The shame would have to give you not to support this motion, sincerely. [[Greetings.]] More stuff. Mr. Cuevillas, I'm going to be running out of time, because you haven't told a single truth, and I'm going to go... point by point. According to you, the PP did not facilitate the promotions of mossos d'ésquadra. Lie – lie. After eleven years without calling places, it was the Government of the People's Party that favored a new promotion of five hundred places. So, first thing you said, lie. I remind you: in 2017, fifty replacement places and another 450 new promotion places. [[Widow's remorse.]] By the way, 750 places were approved for 2018. Why did only the Generalitat summon 437, Mr. Cuevillas? They just like to say a lot of things that are later not true. Fighting theme... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Madam President, there's a freak in here...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.145.0	Quiet, and please. Yes, they ask the deputies to access the room that they do in silence and with respect for the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.146.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Cuevillas, are you leaving, or...? I don't know if he's gonna let his partner through because he doesn't want to hear the reality. Like, for example, what you have said, too, about the fight against terrorism. The People's Party also facilitated the collaboration of the Mossos d'Esquadra with the Centre for Intelligence Against Terrorism and Organized Crime. And, if not, ask Mr. Cèsar Puig, who you so named in your speech. It's a real shame. And, above all, I do not allow you to say that at some point I referred to the Mossos d'ésquadra as ‘coupists'. You thumpers, condemned for sedition and misrepresentation. [[Widow's remorse.]] You're the ones who have to apologize to the Catalans, not the others. [[Greetings. Joan Garriga Doménech asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.147.0	Yes, Mr. Garriga?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.148.0	Votes separated from points 5.i and 5.k.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.149.0	Okay. Thank you very much. [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]] Mrs. Roldán?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.150.0	Yes, President. Because you are reading point 3 and point 5, the letter to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.151.0	Three and five, letter a. I am acclaiming, because this has happened before, that when there are no texts passed for the papers..., that do not have all the deputies, when the reading of the point is asked is the reading of the file of the Ple, that is that they have all the deputies and also the people who follow us. Now let's make sure we read the correct text. [[Marta Vilalta and Torres ask to speak.]] Mrs. Villalta...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.152.0	Yes, President. For a separate vote on item 3 and sub-items 5.a, 5.c, 5.g, 5.h, 5.o, 5.p and 5.q. All of these can be grouped together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.153.0	Five. b and 5.d?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.154.0	No, no, no: 5a, 5.c, 5.g, 5.h and 5.o, p i q.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.155.0	Q and q, all right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.156.0	Yeah, it's long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.157.0	Yeah. No, it makes me easy, yeah, yeah. P and q, all right. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mr. Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.158.0	You see, we ask for a separate vote on points 3, 4, 5a, 5o and 5.q, which could go together. I, for another band, voted separately, that they could also go together, these two, the 5.b and the 5.d.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.159.0	Okay. We'll start reading point number three. Please ask the secretary to read it to us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.160.0	"Strongly condemn the violent attacks and attacks against officers of the Squad Coast, local police and the rest of the security forces and bodies of the State. In this sense, Parliament encourages them to continue working with the same professionalism, dedication and dedication as they have done so far.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.161.0	We're voting for this point number three. The vote begins. This point did not go forward, with 51 votes in favour and 82 votes against. We're voting points 1 and 2. The vote begins. These points have been put forward, with 124 votes in favour and 9 votes against. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has gone forward, with 116 votes in favour and 17 votes against. We're voting point number five now, letters to, or, p and q... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No: a, or i q. Did you ask for the reading of this point, too, Mrs. Roldán? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Point 5a, all right. So ask the fourth secretary who proceeded to the reading.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.162.0	Third secretary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.163.0	Oh, I didn't know who did it, now. Third. Come on, Pau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.164.0	« Give support to members of the Squad Coast, local police and the rest of the forces and security of the State in complimenting their functions, and work together with the rest of the administrations present in Catalonia to restore and strengthen their authority.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.165.0	So, let's go to the vote on point 5, letters to, or q. The vote begins. That point doesn't pull forward. It had 51 votes in favour and 82 votes against. Let's vote now on point 5, letters b and d. The vote begins. This point went forward, with 116 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 8 abstentions. We vote point five, letters and k. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 113 votes in favour and 20 votes against. And, finally, we put the vote on point 5, letters c, e, f, g, h, j, l, m, n, i. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I've already voted for it. Ah, no, we have to vote apart, okay; g i h... we can do c, g, h i p. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, let's take this vote, then. The vote begins. This point... these letters have not been approved, with 59 votes in favour and 74 votes against. And finally, we're doing the rest of the letters on number five. The vote begins. These sections have been approved, with 124 votes in favour, 8 votes against and one person who does not vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.166.0	You didn't vote, you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.167.0	I didn't vote? [[Pause.]] So... the president didn't vote. The memory that the numbers exist, in the band of the letters. We suspend the session until two-quarters of the late four. Thank you. She chairs the President of Parliament, accompanied by all the members of the Bureau, who is assisted by the Secretary General, the Major and the Xavier Muro and Bass.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.168.0	Let's resume the session with the twenty-three point of the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the taxation of Catalonia]] [[302-00035/13]] The motion following the inquiry to the Government on taxation in Catalonia, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. And he has the word, to expose it, Mr Joan Canadell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.169.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Deputies, deputies, councillors... To defend this young man, first of all let me make a statement: the Spanish State discriminates against Catalans. And, to justify this statement, we just ask ourselves a few questions: why is the degree of implementation of the State's assumptions in Catalonia in the last two years not above the mid-seventy-four_per_cent? Why does Madrid exceed one hundred per cent every year – and has there been a year that has exceeded one hundred per cent? Why do we continue to receive the twelve_per_cent of investments, when we are the seven_per_cent of the population, the ten_per_cent of GDP and the twenty-i-five_per_cent of exports? Why does the State invest 10,4_per_cent in airport infrastructure in Catalonia, when we have 20_per_cent of passengers? This represents 0,8_euros to pass and year in Catalonia before 1.5 to the total of the Spanish State and 2,6_euros in Madrid – the triple. Why do we get the new percent in investments in reels, when we have the fifteen percent of the heavy traffic? Why do we get €1.7 for a train to Catalonia when the Spanish average is €3? Why, while keeping the High Court's judgment in order to complete the third additional of the Statute – after having been filled, for sure – have the 3,200_million compromises been incomplete? Why is the shortage of infrastructure, investments, from the state to Catalonia in the last two years already rising to 28,000_million euros? And why is the accumulated public investment in Spain similar to the European medium, and, in change, in Catalonia, in order to be located at this medium, would we need to invest €45,000_million in Catalonia? All these questions are statements of the reports and studies made by the social and economic agents of this country: Circle of Economy, Chambers of Commerce, Promotion of Work, Cecot, Pimec, Collegiates of Economists... What strange, everyone agrees, in these conclusions. Why, even the repeated cries of girls from civil society to solve this problem, in the past few years we have not advanced, are we still the same? Why recently, 2019, the execution of state investments was also completed in the sixty-two-per-cent – it is to say, under the middle of the last two years – 2020, in the seventy-three-per-cent, and 2021 – at the time! – in the thirteen_per_cent until June? They go on with it all the time. Well, actually, we're still worse. Why, Mrs Romero, Socialists, on 1 September 2007, in the mandate of President Montilla, was there a demonstration to protest against the lack of investment in infrastructure with 700,000 people and has not changed anything? The answer to these questions is one: the State discriminates against Catalans, because it is in our need, and, in fact, it has always done so. I said Machado: « Miserable castle, dominating yesterday, wrapped in its rags despises all that it ignores. As much as Castella has written the story of Spain, the reality is that Catalonia has ignored our interests, our projects, our illusions, and the only one that has interested him is our money – today, in the form of a fiscal deficit, which affects forty-two percent of all Catalan taxes. To the unionist groups of this chamber the memory that the Spanish Constitution says, in its article 14: "The Spaniards are equal before the law, without being able to prevail no discrimination by reason of birth, race, sex, religion, opinion or any other personal or social condition or circumstance. You see, this Constitution is a dumb paper, when it comes to the rights of Catalans. That's why there's nothing left to do, with Spain, except the definitive separation. And this will end like all the independence processes: with an active and passive distribution. So, as President Puigdemont said, let's get ready. We know that Spain is one of the most indebted states in Europe, with more than one hundred and twenty-two per cent of GDP, but Catalonia will not be able to accept the equivalent share without taking into account the infrastructures that have not been made and that suppose a real historical debt that can be quantified. In the same way, it will also be necessary to value the fiscal deficit accumulated during all these years, these decades, which will certainly be over €300,000_million. For all this, we urge the Government of Catalonia to prepare itself for this real negotiation – this will be the real negotiation – and quantify the extent of State discrimination in terms of infrastructure to take it into account at the final stage as far as independence is concerned. Finally, on the additions presented by the Esquerra and the common companies, we will obviously accept that of Esquerra's companies – and I understand that the Saved company will defend it – and reject that of the common ones, and then, at the counter-replication, I will explain why. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.170.0	Thank you very much. Next, and to defend the proposed statements, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.171.0	Well, good afternoon. He's got me in the middle of something, 'cause he didn't know the exact order... but fine. (Pause.) So, in relation to the motion presented, we have presented a statement. In principle, what would be point 1, we would vote in favour. We will vote in favour, among other things, because discrimination has two meanings, right? : 'discriminate may be separate, 'distinguish, 'distinguish, 'discriminate' also means inferiority. In any case, I believe that the first point that basically lies is that we quantify, analyze, we know..., with the will to transform and correct. So, let's just say, we agree, obviously, that we need to quantify something that we understand... that we believe exists, that this discrimination is. So, quantify, analyze. Analyze it in a plural, diverse way, as much objective as possible. And, if we are to do so, we also look at the specific shortcomings of our own investment capacity, such as the Generality of Catalonia, which we also have a great deal to desire, sometimes, in our investment effort and in the execution of our investment effort. Therefore, point 1 will be voted in favour. Point two, we'll vote against it. Point 2 will be voted against by principle. We were, not all governments are the same. It's like saying that all policies are the same. It is an excessively hard and clear line of union between positions of a right each time more extreme. Not all governments are the same, not all governments do the same politics. Not all politics is the same. Not so much if they don't. We'd be happy to have the government we have in the state. Or maybe we'd rather have another government in the state? I think it's different to have a coalition government in the state between the PSOE and the United States. We can and can have a government in the state between the People's Party, Citizens and VOX. It's possible that you like it better; it's possible that you seem to like it all the same, but it's not all the same. You can say that everything is the same, and others also say that everything is the same, that they are those who, in principle, are against politics by definition, because they want other things. Therefore, point 2 will not be voted in favour. Point 3, obviously, we will vote in favour. The deal they made with Esquerra Republicana's proposal... That's right, the issue of the Court of Auditors with regard to the issue... We said that at the time. So I'm not. Now, we've presented a message that we were pleased to have accepted. Because there is not enough to find that there is discrimination, there is not enough to quantify it; we have to solve it, we have to solve it. And one of the best ways to solve it is to approach a fund negotiation of a new funding model that addresses fund issues. And it's worth it, because we have to. First, because what we have in 2009, which at the time was very positive, has expired since 2014 and is beginning to have elements of perversion and negativity. It would be a good thing if we did a fund negotiation, because in this fund negotiation we can try to solve all these problems that we can be detecting and that we see that we can solve, because we resolve them with an agreement or we continue to install in the non-agreement. Because our will is to do politics, and to do politics is not just to show the problems. To make politics, or at least the politics that we want to make, is to transform reality. And to transform reality, there is not enough victimism, there is not enough to say that we are ill. We have to transform what we don't like. And to transform what we don't like we need this agreement, this new funding model. And it was good that a proposal for a new funding model that we have been asking the government for a while now is presented. And there is not enough with a new funding model – which is important –; also, when we talk about investments, what is very important is to address the mechanisms of better institutional cooperation. Because a good part of the problems we have do not only obey and exclusively the curses of the current funding model, but also, possibly, the non-existence or fever of the mechanisms of cooperation between institutions. Because many times, in time above all to speak of executions – not of endowments, but of executions –, a good part of executions end up not materializing for a bad cooperation between the different institutions involved in the execution of certain investments. Therefore, our proposal, our proposal to move forward – which, unfortunately, you do not want to accept – went in the line of seeking solutions to a problem detected. However, it will be useful for us to install ourselves in the problem detected to make victimism and plaramic if, at the same time, we do not put forward a concrete proposal that allows us to solve the issue with a financing model and with an institutional cooperation that has the investments that we believe are necessary to be able to follow the industrial engine, the economic engine of the joint venture of the State, and, at the same time, that has a certain relationship with social justice that we all want to be able to achieve, obviously, also with a better financing model and with coherent investments with what we represent and are. All right, all right, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.172.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.173.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... Mr. Canadell, all the autonomous communities, by definition, have a lack of infrastructure, and they all want more, don't they? [[Widow's remorse.]] It is true that... I must recognize that, during the governments of the People's Party, the reversal in Catalonia fell to a percentage of the total investments of the State. But whether you like it or not, with the governments of Pedro Sánchez this situation began to reverse. And we've walked further if the 2018 assumptions have approved them and not left them behind – and now I'm going to explain why they left them behind and we went to general elections. And it is true that there are several statutes of autonomy – not just that of Catalonia – which, in their additional provisions, require that investments equivalent to their contribution to gross domestic product be made. Not just Catalonia..., well, there are some statues that were made after that of Catalonia that collected this disposition. And it's true that, as an organic law, it has to be completed. And when they are not complete – that the government of Mariano Rajoy did not complete – the Supreme Court – exactly as you say – issued a judgment that required..., the delays that there had been, or the non-congratulation, to take them into account. If you look at the presupposition of 2019, that of 2021..., that of 2019 not, because it was extended, but..., that of 2021 and that of the year you see, you will see that the position that Catalonia occupies in the general presuppositions of the State is the first position, for which it does the investment in infrastructures. We try to complete, in absolute and percentage terms, the third additional provision. In fact, on the assumption that they are now in parliamentary session at the Congress of Deputies, Catalonia is still the first community on the investment list. And so, I'm already telling you from this Faristol that for the Government of Spain, Catalonia is a priority, it's the priority at these times, isn't it? You told us... oh, let's give them a little memory. The presupposition of 2018 remained..., it was not approved, among other reasons, because in the negotiation that there was you, instead of recovering the money that this feeling of the Supreme attributed to the Generality of Catalonia in infrastructures..., the one who today is president of the Generality of Catalonia blocked the agreement because what it demanded was not infrastructure, but money to cover the holes and the deficits that the presupposition of the Generality had. Tell us everything, huh? And, it's true, it's not the same assumption as the bid and executed. Yesterday the vice president was talking about it, in a parliamentary question that you yourself put to him, and today you also tried to reopen the key. If I didn't get it wrong, he was telling us that the presupposition was seventy-four percent. Did I hear that? [[Pause.]] Well, now I'll talk about the numbers – I recognize that it's a low cipher, we should go more, but... –, now I'll talk about some numbers that you haven't explained to them and didn't want to hear them or not to hear them. I'll tell you what, huh? Presupposition of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Infrastructures. Exercise 2019, auctioned and executed. Reels, a 71,68_per_cent of what was in the presupposition. Any 2020, a 72.35_per_cent. The one we wear till today, because I've been looking at it, from 2021, a 44.62. Rail infrastructure. Railways of the Generality of Catalonia – this assembles in Renfe, right? It would be comparable. Any 2019, bid and execution: thirty-nine_per_cent of what I had assumed. Any 2020, forty-two per cent of what I had assumed. Or that, in comparative terms, I look, it turns out that the State is still winning, to you, in bidding and execution. We could get into the causes, huh? , because sometimes projects cannot be bid in time and form. I, respect the airport – in these new _seconds that remain with us – perhaps you should ask your parliamentary or government partners why the execution or the need for enlargement at the airport of Barcelona, 1,700_million euros, cannot be done and you have renounced it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.174.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the deputy Lluís Salvadó has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.175.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, very late. The motion presented by the company Joan Canadell asks for a xifra, an icon, that exemplifies the economic abandonment in the matter of investments and infrastructure of Catalonia by the State. And surely, as Canadell's company will have to recognize, he quantifies a part, only, of a much harder problem, of a problem that fills many other areas of the economic aspects of these relations between Spain and Catalonia. That, to a good extent, it is certainly a very important part that justifies the fact that independence in this chamber came years ago practically was extra-parliamentary and in these moments we represent more than half of the Members and Members and more than fifty-two per cent of the votes. A mistreatment that, as everyone is not aware, beyond infrastructure, also speaks of a fiscal deficit. And some may question the methods and the figures, but what is official, because they are the figures that publish the ministry..., Catalonia occupies the third position of the tax receipts per capita, and, after all the mechanisms..., to apply the mechanisms of the financing model, if we make the correction of the price differential, we occupy the penultimate position of the group of autonomous communities. And that's official figures from our own ministry. Maybe some of them might seem normal. It doesn't seem like it, and it certainly doesn't seem like it's fifty-two percent of the country's citizenship either. It is also important to quantify the 4,000_million euros that the State does not place in the law of dependence; or the 5,000_million euros of public health deficit that the Health Circle recently quantified of annual deficit; or smaller, not so far-reaching amounts, such as the 700_million euros of infra-financing of the Mossos. And there is no escape or vital minimum income: the Spanish State at this time is incurring 2.5_€ per month per inhabitant of midjana at the conjunct of the Spanish State– 2.5– and here we are in a 0.9. We could go a long way and put a lot of examples of this fine one, but I think I can also refer to the concrete subject to which the reason for this is that we are faced, and it is these investments, this infrastructure deficit. Mr. Terrades spoke very well of the assumptions. And it's obvious that the assumptions, as the President of the Government of the General said yesterday, are very easy to paint, and the executions are much more complicated. Surely the one that generates rebuig, deep rebuig, is the differential. And it's true that in all administrations, from the smallest to the largest, there are parties that can't be executed, for a lot of reasons. But when it turns out that you find that Catalonia in midjana is inverted fifty_percent of what is inverted in Madrid, and that it is inverted fifty_percent of what is in Madrid, obviously this, as with comparative effects, is quite difficult. And, for another band, it's kept out of the way. And it is true: as Mr. Gallego says, it is very certain that it is not the same Spanish government of the PSOE and of the commons as a Spanish government of the PP and VOX. It's not the same; but, unfortunately, in infrastructures it assembles enough – it assembles enough. I give an example: 2019, the time of President Zapatero, present a plan of railway infrastructure of rolling stock of Barcelona with 4,000_million euros. At the end of..., 2017, President Rajoy presents another plan with 3,900_million euros, which seem to be equal, even figures, practically equivalent investments. On the other hand, as has been said, we have incorporated..., we have made a proposal of a theme that is certainly deviated from the central theme of the young man, but we seem to be more of an expression of mistreatment and espousal towards our country in this deep state. It is a point that we propose to reject the decision of the Court of Auditors not to accept the endorsements of the supplementary grounds of risk which we approved in this Chamber a few weeks ago– two hundred votes in favour, twenty-eight votes against–, and with the absolute coverage of the Council of State Guarantees – legal coverage, extensive coverage of the democracy expressed through this Parliament. But, despite everything, as usual, when you lose votes, you end up fixing some friends to quit. But, as always, solidarity in the independence movement will prevent and prevent the repression of individual character..., we can prevent it if collectively we can catch a hand. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.176.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, Mr Antonio Gallego has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.177.0	Thank you very much, President. Members... Well, today we attend..., today Junts presents us a new ration of child tear victimism, the star dish of the house. They are specialists in babbling, whining, complaining and twisting reality to present themselves to the world as the poor little ones mistreated by this « evil Spain that oppresses and crushes them so much. For Junts everything goes so far as to continue to fuel their hatred of the Spanish nation and to stir up the clumsiness of the story that led them to give a coup d'état in 2017. When I read the motion – he said "on taxation, the holder" – for a moment I thought: "Man, maybe we're talking about taxes, right? ; maybe we're talking about the fiscal hell that Catalans are suffering, right? Because of you, because of your bad management. I thought all that, naive of me. I thought maybe Junts was going to come up with some proposal and reduce some kind of tax or tax, etc. But, well, it wasn't that way, was it? The thing was, as I said before, to complain and cry about the scarce investment in infrastructure by the Government of Spain. Well, six considerations. In the analysis..., in your motion..., I do the analysis of your motion, and you skip a few things, right? For example – non-minor issues, huh? , I will refer to non-minor issues – that Spain, from 2008, suffered an unprecedented financial crisis that prevented investment in infrastructure at the desired levels. You are still alien to reality, but that happened here and in Extremadura and elsewhere. Maybe they haven't invested..., the percentage hasn't come close to a hundred_per_cent of the expected, has it? , but there is one issue that also omits this motion, and that is that Catalonia is the region with the most public debt in Spain ; that it has not broken precisely thanks to the help of the « evil Government of Spain ; that the Generalitat owes to « evil Government of Spain 60,000_million_de_euros, precisely because of its harmful management. Yes, the debt is 80,000 – of the Generalitat de Catalunya – but 60,000 are held against, say, the Spanish Public Treasury. Third. That you appeal in the text of your motion to the Spanish Constitution, you, it is a trache – of article 14, you speak –; it turns out that from time to time you like the Constitution. It is also difficult to complain about the infrastructure deficit by some gentlemen who have behaved as in the Marx brothers' cabin during the last few weeks following the 1,700_million investment of the airport. « They don't invest in Catalonia, they don't invest in Catalonia... When they make a proposal, they go and fight, like kids. But it's okay, it's two weeks and we come here to complain to us again. I recommend that you read a study called "Infrastructures of transport carried out by Airef – the Independent Fiscal Responsibility Authority – which says, and makes it clear to me that Catalonia was the region of Spain that had received the most nominal gross investment in the period 1985-2018, with 15.8 of the investment in the whole of Spain. That's what Airef says. You will say that Airef is facha, too, but the first community in public investment in democracy in Spain has been Catalonia – Catalonia. Therefore, all the literature you have presented here, in short, does not make much sense or much economic rigour. The report also says that, in terms of average investment per capita, Catalonia is also above the Spanish average, and that we are the autonomous community that concentrates the most net stock of infrastructure, with almost seventeen_per_cent. The Airef – the Airef – is not an opinion of VOX, it is not... ; it is the Airef. I believe that it is a body that is respected and respectable for the quality of its reports. So, Mr. Canadell, everything you've said or much of what you've said is a lie. I understand that you continue with your Chinese story to continue making separatists, which is your business, but the story is as false as your institutional loyalty. They say that the governments of Spain do not invest in Catalonia. Well, you've all approved, well, eighty per cent of the general budgets of the state in democracy. You'll have some responsibility, won't you? Or is it always the fault of others, which is what you always do? Sixth – and with this I finish – I don't know what an amendment by Squerra Republicana writes about bail to endorse the coup fines in a motion we're talking about taxation. And I'm done. Your speech is always the same, Mr Canadell: "If Catalonia were independent we would be rich, handsome, nice and so on. Anyway, we'd be milk. It's like you're... well, if you were tall, handsome... you'd be a Hollywood actor. Yes, yes, but it's okay, from time to time, to land, settle down, act responsibly, have moderately mature speeches and stop crying. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.178.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.179.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Mr. Canadell, I have to say that your young lady took me off a little bit. You make an inquiry where you practically want to assimilate to Ireland, but then, I don't know if by fate or disgrace, the taxation disappears from the motion. Well, it's on the title, it's on. Clearly, I have some doubts about what you expressed fifteen days ago, because... they're worrying. You insinuated that we could make the IRPF disappear, the corporation tax and the estate tax, as at least I read from the transcript of his intervention. The question is, do you want Catalonia to become a tax haven? Because that's what he meant the other day. And I think it would be good to have the answer. But luckily, he didn't touch the lady. So, we're staying here. Talk about infrastructure and state investments in infrastructure in Catalonia. In my view, there was already a demonstration in this country on 1 September 2007, which said: "We are a nation and we are good enough. We have a right to decide on our infrastructure. Fourteen years later, we're on the same page. As a matter of fact, even the year 2007 was a year when the State's investment deficit in Catalonia was being denounced and it demanded the publication of fiscal balances – a little like its own motion. In fact, it is obvious that there is a shortage of investments in infrastructure. I don't think anyone gets away with it, if he takes a train of rollers in the morning, or, better said, tries to take a train of rollers to go to work, that he will see the structural deficiencies of a network that for years has not rejected the necessary investments. And we could talk about many other infrastructures in which there has been a systemic shortage of investments. But it's also important that we talk about what the character of these infrastructures is. And when we talk about investment deficits, we also focus on whether, when we get more investments, we want them to continue to burden the arches of big companies or if we want them to promote a public transport of quality that is universal and that really makes it easier for workers in this country to access their jobs in decent conditions; if, when we get more investments for infrastructure, we are talking about more investments for high-speed trains or we are talking about this network of rolling stock, right? That's to say, what we ask and what we defend, which is the model of infrastructures we want. Is it necessary for the State to reverse it? Yeah. We also need to define which model we want. And when we talk about which model we want, we also realize that the investment deficits or structural problems of some of these infrastructures are also a small responsibility of the Generality, because line 9 of the metro..., years and years of line 9 of the metro, with more than 2,500_million euros overcost or overexpenditure, and still these heights of line 9 of the metro are not finished. And here there are shared responsibilities for many of those in this hemisphere. We also need to see this. That's why we're going to abstain at the first two points, because we share a part of what you're saying, but there's a series of things that aren't said to be said either. So, here we abstain. And, of course, we will vote in favour of the Republican Left, because we have seen more of these days as justice or as justice, when they are not a real court of law, applying the enemy's right, on the ground, sending still a series of families and people who have done their work in accordance with their political responsibilities..., they seize the benefits and they continue to pose many completely disproportionate and unfair. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.180.0	Then, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.181.0	Thank you, President. Well, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We already have here a new Junts motion for Catalonia which is the update of the mantra, the main hit of Catalan nationalism, which is the "Spain in clothes". In this case, the tax policy of which Mr Canadell overtly speaks, which is one thing – let's say again, an idea that I have already repeated in the last interventions – that is not normal for any democratic parliament in the world either: the fact that the speech of the North League – of the North League – is normalized in a parliament. Your fan of constant victimism, continuous complaint, your only political argument. A person very much admired for some in this chamber – among others, I count Mr Salvador Illa and some other Members of Parliament sure that, also, from the rest of the parties, and also from the Socialist Party – Ernest Lluch, said that the constant nationalist complaint was an ideological one for coexistence in a political community. And, indeed, his constant complaint is constantly appealing to a supposed persecution of Madrid, to a supposed hatred of the Catalans by Madrid, to a supposed under-privilege of the State towards the Catalans. It's ideological for cohabitation. You don't do politics for Catalans, you don't do a constructive policy for a financing system that is better for the citizens of Catalonia and that doesn't necessarily have to be worse for the rest of Spanish citizens, but simply do serve the narcissism of the small difference, hatred, discrimination, constant victimism, in order to try to precisely trigger the confrontation, divide it that they need in the Catalan society itself. In any case, I insist on the idea that you defend the speech defended by the North League of Lord Salvini, who was first an ultranationalist from the great Padania and now is an Italian nationalist. Because that, obviously... when one is a nationalist like there isn't, like Mr Salvini, he's the same as he's from great Padania or he's from great Italy. But anyway, I want to give you a couple of thoughts on the question that we were supposed to be dealing with, the tax issue. You, who govern with the greatest number of taxes in Spain... Catalonia is the autonomous community with the largest number of taxes in Spain, with fifteen taxes; certainly two more, they would say, if we also count the two who are declared unconstitutional for the « evil Constitutional Court, which is precisely who is in charge of vetting because it is not trampling the rights and freedoms of the citizens, also of the citizens of Catalonia. We should be very grateful to the Constitutional Court..., the citizens of Catalonia we should be very grateful that, if not, you have declared unconstitutional two of the said taxes that you, the Lords of Junts for Catalonia, the Republican Left and with the support of the UPC, have created for the citizen of Catalonia in this authentic fiscal hell to which they support us at the conjunction of the citizens of Catalonia. I also want to remind them of a fundamental economic principle: taxes do not pay the territories, they pay the citizens. Therefore, the redistribution of wealth in a democratic and social state of right as Spanish is produced among the citizens, and not among the territories. A principle so fundamental, so basic, so elementary of the economy you seem not to understand. And, when the citizens of Catalonia are in the middle of Spain in reverse per capita, I have not just heard this claim to turn the relationship between Catalonia and the rest of Spain into a supposed spoli. Therefore, I would like to finish this intervention again quoting Ernest Lluch. Ernest Lluch used to say something that's very helpful to me. For many years now, I have had it as a speech reading, his books on the history of Catalonia and, above all, on the Catalan economy, and, concretely, an article that wrote the year 92 to La Vanguardia, which was entitled, precisely, "Spoiled Catalonia. He said that it is never possible to separate the debate from the fiscal deficit from the question of the trade surplus. You, who are constantly calling upon the supposed separation of Catalonia from the rest of Spain as the manna that will fall from the cell, and Mr. Canadell says that you do not... Go, I, really, do not just understand if you really believe that in a Catalonia separated from the rest of Spain our gross domestic product, and therefore the ability to exaccete taxes that would have the Administration, the new administration of the new state, the flame of the Catalan state..., would have the same ability to exacce taxes that we have now with the GDP that we have in Catalonia, the GDP that we have in Catalonia when our main trading partners are the rest of the autonomous communities. And I recommend that you read an author who is not from Salamanca, but is said to be Pankaj Ghemawat, who is Indian, and will say: Catalonia's main trading partners are Aragó, Balears, the Valencian Community and the Madrid Community. Therefore, stop dreaming of trout and start to make real politics for the citizens of Catalonia. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.182.0	In the last place, and on behalf of the Joint Group, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.183.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Today we are presented with a motion on taxation which, as a matter of taxation, does not talk about it, nor does it mean anything, which is not surprising, is it? And, in the end, when you read the three points of the young lady, you can see that she is a young man presented exclusively to continue feeding the report, which seems to have been said, and we must continue to make the speech that "Madrid steals from us. So no. And I'll give you a thought that I think it's important that we start to have it present: Madrid doesn't rob us; Madrid what it's doing is it's passing through our faces, because there they know how to manage an autonomous community and they know how to exercise their skills, which here, many years ago, has not been done. You, through this motion, want to link an additional provision of the Statute that a ruling of the Constitutional Court said was not binding. And I also have to tell you one other thing, for your reflection: what the third additional provision of the Statute says is achieved in a single way: negotiator–negotiator. It's how things get done in politics, negotiating. But you carry many years of insulting those with whom you have to negotiate. They must agree with me that it's a politics a little strange negotiation; as the tactic leaves much to be desired, frankly. Then they'll complain. You can't permanently insult the State, you can't permanently insult the Government of the State, and then go there and say, "What are women to me? That doesn't work that way, gentlemen. It doesn't work like that. They come here to complain about the lack of investments, when you have just rejected the major reversal of the last two years for Catalonia. And they turned him down, we don't know how well yet. Through a tweet blows up everything, a presidential tweet, boom, blows up everything, 1,700_millions. And we're starting to think, some of us, if they blow up this reversal because that's why they're missing their report, and we'd rather keep seeing the report that "Madrid's stuff than accepting a 1,700_million euro reversal that Catalonia needs, because, if not, I still don't see the explanation there. They're talking about comparative heaviness. And everybody gets into this game, we have a problem, we have a hard problem. Because, in the end, you – Generality, Government of the Generality – distribute investments by regions. We have forty-two comarques. And I'll tell them that, of the forty-two comarques, thirty-two do not reach two percent of the total inversion per comarques. And if we start to lower the level of the comparative weights here, we can end up finding that the High Ribagorça will come to tell us that it has a weight compared to the Lower Blobregat, and to see how you take it. Let's follow a coherent little thing with what it is to manage and what it is to distribute. And I insist: do you want more resources? Without doubt, we all want more resources, of course we do want more resources; negotiating, not insulting. Finally, a motion that was supposed to be fiscal, but that speaks of "Madrid steals from us..., end with an additional item and point that speaks of the decision of the Court of Auditors that you want to fail and refuse. Well, I translate what the Court of Auditors says to them, because it seems to me that you haven't understood it yet. The Court of Auditors tells us: who has been the victim of an embezzlement cannot endorse the embezzlers. It's so clear. And it's thought that this is not so, and that whoever has been the victim of a misrepresentation can endorse the evildoers, and that this is correct, it's a political disproposal, which you also need to reflect on. Therefore, we will vote against all the motion in all its points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.184.0	Thank you very much. And, after the turn of the groups, has now the word, to pronounce on the papers, the deputy Mr Joan Canadell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.185.0	Thank you, President. How difficult to sum up, in such a short time... Escortin, we are in time of assumptions both in Spain and Catalonia. So now it's time to talk about history, now it's time to fix this situation that's been going on for so many years. And this has to be done before we close the premise and not after, because we know that the Spanish State always finds excuses to fail, when it comes to Catalonia. In fact, the trading houses in 2019 said one thing, they did a study and said one thing: "To reverse the situation we have now, to match the situation of the rest of Spain and the middle of Europe, what should be done is, during the next twelve years, to invest 3,800_million in Catalonia. They've seen how they've been the first three years. Mr. Terrades, when you say that this issue is..., "now yes, eh? , does a little..., nunyism, huh? , at..., « this year yes... Listen'm, « this year yes no. We carry twenty years with this problem, or more than twenty years with this problem. So, let's not go to the topic of this year, neither the rain of millions nor the historical memory, because this already we know and we have always finished the same, the reality is very rough. Mrs. Reguant, when we talk about taxation... I set an example the other day... I said: "The Catalans, if we want, without fiscal deficit, we could hold the taxation of Ireland. I'm not saying... I said, "It's not the model that we have; so I'm not getting over it. I, about the infrastructure model, listen to me, more than we've talked about here, betting on roulettes, it seems to me that few have talked about it. And, in addition, the vice president... totally compromises with the whole government that this is a reality as soon as possible. Mr Martín Blanco, listen to us, what we do is provide data from social workers. And you, like you don't know how to beat them, say you're lying, when lying is you. So, you're making it look good, 'cause the data is from social workers, don't make it up to me, huh? What else? Listen to me, the saying has already been said: if they deceive you once, your fault; if they deceive you two, the fault is of the other. What if they fool you for years? So listen to me... it's just that I would add that if you've been fooled for years now, what we have to do is change the strategy, or let's fold. Therefore, we are the fifty-second-per-cent government to change the strategy, to, once and for all, reverse this situation. And this, as we all know, goes through independence, through the negotiation of actius and passius, and to solve the historical debt that we have. And I don't have any more time. I know it's hard, but I don't have any more time. Thank you. [[Greetings. David Cid Colomer asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.186.0	Yes, Mr. Cid...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.187.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.188.0	Point 2. Any more petitions? (Pause.) Yes, Mrs. Regant?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.189.0	To ask for separate votes from points 1 and 2, which could go together, but no longer, and from point 3, for another band.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.190.0	Perfect. So we're voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved, with 73 votes in favour, 51 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2 has been approved, with 65 votes in favour, 59 votes against and 9 abstentions. And now we're voting point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved, with 82 votes in favour and 51 votes against. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the loneliness and defence of women victims of male violence]] [[302-00036/13]] Let's move on to the twenty-four point of the order of the day, the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the loneliness and defence of women victims of male violence, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. [[Widow's remorse.]] You have the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs Gemma Lienas. Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.191.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, good afternoon. I want to begin the defense of the young man who insists on vulnerability, defencelessness and the loneliness of women who suffer from male violence. And it is that our laws, effectively, give solutions on the paper to many situations that after, to real life, are not solved. To our law we need deployment, personnel resources and economic resources. As far as the economic adviser is concerned, I also warn him, taking advantage of the fact that he is here. [[the speaker laughs]] – that it is struggling with the assumptions, that it is already very late, and that it needs to provide an important amount to fight against male violence. We, from my group, will be paying attention to everything you do and, obviously, everything you don't. The consequences of these shortcomings are the victims of male violence. That's why we present a young man with the thread of which is the follow-up of the victims. A follow-up that should take place in a figure of reference – a psychologist or a social worker – that makes all the way to the victim's side: to the police station, to the hospitals, to the jutjats, to the house of gathering. Are you imagining the psychological state of a woman who, after years of all-time rape on the part of her partner and having an emotional bond of submissiveness, decides to denounce her? This is the most critical moment of the whole process, and it's the moment when the woman needs more empathy. If you can't imagine them, I recommend reading a novel by an Irish author, Roddy Doyle, which is entitled The woman who met the doors, which is not translated into Catalan. It's a great novel to hear what's going on with male violence. They think of a woman, in this emotional state, who enters the police station alone, and, once there, they tell her that she has to wait three or four hours..., to the lawyer of the offices; that they let her sit in a chair in the middle of a pass while wondering if she is doing well or if she is doing badly, what will happen to her and her creatures. They don't freak out if I tell them to get up, they say they're gonna have a coffee and they're not coming back. That's why we ask this referent figure who can accompany them from the minute u. And we also ask for decent spaces to wait and telematic means to the clerks to skip, if necessary, the waiting time to have an interview with the lawyer or lawyer of the offices. And the referent figure has to accompany the abused women in their recovery, especially the psychological one. That is why we have demanded that the attention of women who suffer as a result of violence be guaranteed, and especially those who can be chronised. We do not currently have data on the impact of male violence on the physical and psychological salvation of women. For this reason we have asked for specific studies from Health. This figure also has to be able to accompany them to the court, because the woman needs help not to be drawn back, she needs empowerment to be convinced that what she is doing is good for her and her children. Certainly, the judges also operate there – and the commissioners and the health centers – harm them: if the woman has few cultural resources, if she has any intellectual deficiencies or if she has an unstandardized aspect, this goes against her. Often the women withdraw the complaint, but this does not mean that the complaint was false; it means that we have failed, because it has not had a help to reach the end. And this figure of reference must also be able to accompany, to her and her daughters and children, to the houses of collidation, and should help her solve all the procedures that she will have to do. For what he does to women victims of sexual rape, we need him to go to a hospital that has specialized units, with staff that he is prepared and that he is very empathetic and knows how to listen empathically, and that he never judges them, but treats them as victims that they are. There is one aspect that they did not put in this young man, which was already very long, because they made a motion for a resolution that we hope is soon seen in the Commission of Igualtat, and it is that Catalonia integrates into the Viogen system of the Secretary of State of Security, that aggregates all information on male violence and that can be consulted and followed from anywhere in the State. Catalonia puts at risk the women, not being in this system, who are going to live outside Catalonia. And, finally, we do not want to fail to remind the Councillor of Equality and Feminisms that since the department, from its department, they have to execute the premise, and it is that August's month had only executed 24.8_per_cent. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.192.0	Now the word, to defend the papers presented, the deputy Anna Grau, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.193.0	Thank you, President. Well, sometimes in Parliament one question is whether we all come here to enjoy or to waste time. This Socialist Group motion that we are debating today would be, from our point of view, a perfect example of public malaguanyate time. The loneliness and defencelessness of the victims of male violence is a rather big and important issue as to justify a twenty-three point motion – a marathon one, which is said by Mr Cuevillas – or much more. It's a lot or a few, depending on whether they bring anything. To our liking, the original writing of the young man was an easy and simplistic sic, frequenting amateurism, at times. And it has already been seen, when amateur feminism tries to give lessons to lifelong feminism; that I ask Mrs. Carmen Calvo if she was happy with the experience of governing in coalition with Mrs. Irene Montero. It's not that this young man says disarrays like those who feel like he's talking to the Ministry of Equality; on the contrary, he's full of good intentions a little naïve of times, a little presumptuous of others, like when they try to give lessons to the judicial bodies without looking at the very first who has the competence of it – it's you see that everything here gets less beautiful – or they take care of reports assuming it before they do them, or as if Catalonia is being or is not being held in order to leave. In short, as the same lady Lienas said, many solutions about the paper. We have presented a humble bunch of ideas with the idea of costing not so much the literal motion, which from the very first moment seemed to us overworked and right, as to the good intention of funds that we attribute to it. We asked for small things, such as that studies are carried out with statistical criteria, not with ideological apriorities; that respect the law of criminal procedure, the independence of judicial bodies. Even so, we gave some good faith advice based on direct victims of violence, which, for example, suggested that separate spaces for victims of violence be well signified and that the justice staff know where they are, more quickly so that they can indicate how to go there. And, already put, that jutjats like Sabadell's, Rubí and Martorell are conditioned overcoming the indignity in which they are found after years of miserable maintenance on the part of the Generality. Well, all this is said to be no, not no, sometimes with explanations as curious as it is seen that signaling well the protected spaces of justice would be dangerous for women – they'll tell me why. At the same time, we wanted to deal with giving a hand of painting to the most atrotinate judges, but it is seen that, to accept it, it is necessary to eliminate all mention of the Generality's negligence in its maintenance. And, look, maybe we could have made the big eyes and said, "Come on, come on; but, all of all, because it comes and it's nothing, which is what invariably always happens, and about not being able or saying that the Generality lets the jutjats of physics and feeling die, so look, no. The worst of all is that, comparing the writing of the initial motion of the Socialist Group with the finally accepted papers, all coming from the Invincible Armada d'Esquerra and Juntes, and finally falling the anima at a glance. It is true that the whole youth was, to a great extent, a toast to the sun, a flying pigeons, a touch of feminism's clarinet of mouth, much in the line of what was seen at the last PSOE Congress, but at least some points had their point of demand. Now... it's not even that. In all and every of the questions that the current Government of the Generality could feel neither minimally disturbed nor ashamed of what it does, and above all, what it does not do in defense of the victims of violence, the Socialist Party has invariably fallen down I don't know if the pants, the skirts or some piece of more end and all. In the end, a few points have been left so steep and twisted that they don't even know each other or make laughs. How can it be, for example, that the state of the victim of the crime "ensures something to be demanded that the "continue guaranteeing"? Was he at the safe house? There is also a gulf between demanding the transparency of the risk test from the commissioners and requiring that this test be filled in front of the victim to be satisfied with reviewing the risk assessment indicators from the commissioners – Angela Maria! You love to presume to be more progressive and more feminist than anyone else, but when it comes to planting faces, go to Podemos in Madrid, go to the government of the Generalitat, do not look for them. For all this, look, we thought we would make the effort of good will to ask for a separate vote from the points that seemed to us to be more potable and to vote for them, and to abstain only in those that seemed to us to be more sterile, but given the attitude, how we lose time and little gain from going to work, so, you know, hard enough, we will abstain at all points. We'll have better time and better times. Good afternoon. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.194.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, has the word, now, the deputy Mrs Ester Vallès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.195.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, councillors, deputies and deputies... At first place, from Junts to Catalunya we celebrate any initiative that is brought to Parliament in defense of the women who have suffered male violence. We come from a tradition, a history and an education that still make us prune attitudes that are close to a patriarchal society, and this is a problem for everyone. We have to bear in mind that male violence is not a problem that some women have, but that it's the reality of women, it's day by day, and we have to move forward like society to reverse it. I, to do so, must educate with value, with respect and empathy. And the theory we all know, but the practice is another. We need to act with all the tools, all the resources and from all the institutions so that we can eradicate this scourge of our society, and deal with it in a brave and effective way. It must be borne in mind that male violence is not only given in the sphere of the pair or in the face of it, but also in the family, in the field of work and in the socio-Community sphere. And when we look at the data from 2019, we are alarmed: 50,9_percent of women have been victims of sexual attachment to the length of their lives– 50,9_per_cent–, and 11,9_per_cent have not suffered in the past year. Members of Parliament, of course, we all have in mind proper situations that have made us suffer, to have..., and we cannot remain impassable, we must act. It is obvious that, in order to provide the necessary tools and resources for women who have suffered male violence, it is necessary to invest in it, because when a woman takes the decision to take a step forward and tricks or is addressed to a commissioner to report a situation of male violence she must have all and the best help we can offer her, and that, in fact, she is offering herself: translation services, an exit to file the complaint, advice, a worthy space and a long etc. We are aware that there are still shortcomings to be detected and resolved, and, in fact, they are already being detected, such as improving the adequacy of space to ensure that the victim has a safe and friendly environment. And it's obvious that we still have to go further, and we'll go further, but there's no doubt that we'll get it together. That's why we've brought 15 items to the twenty-three points with the will to do everything possible to end this society chess. We appreciate the Socialist Group's willingness to accept most of the items, even though you have not accepted all of the proposals put forward by the Spanish Government. Because we have skills, but not all; it is what has been part of the Spanish State. And urging the Spanish government and reminding it that it has to do the work or let it do what we want to do is also part of the task of all parliamentary groups. Because when you talk about allocating more resources..., I would like to know if I am aware that the judicial taxes, those that Catalans pay, that it is about 60_million euros, 60_million euros that should be used for the expenses of infrastructure, personal and material, and that we cannot dispose of it..., I am aware of that? I am aware, as Councillor Ciuro has already claimed on more than one occasion to the Ministry of Justice, as did Councillor Capella, that these taxes should be returned in order to be allocated to the financing of the department? And do you know what reality is? It does not return a single euro to the Generalitat. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.196.0	I, finally, in this first block of defense of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, the deputy Mrs Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.197.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. Well, I recognize that we have an uneasy feeling before this proposal. For a band, happy – I recognize this – to talk again about public policies that want to advance in terms of equality and feminism, because a few weeks ago we had a general policy debate and the great oblivions were the specific policies on equality. And, therefore, all those LGTBI policies, anti-racists and anti-male violence have this point more discreet and... happy, as I said, to be able to speak to it again. But, as I said, the feeling is bitter, because we find that this proposal does not propose a change in quantity, quality or depth of the Catalan model of attention to victims of male violence, and that there is a certain emptiness in this young man, despite the fact that now Congresswoman Lienas has spoken of the Catalan law, but in all twenty-three points we have not found that it is a reference to this pioneering Catalan law that we have in Catalonia. I am talking about the Catalan model because, as I said, one of the great errors of this proposal is that the Catalan model was obvious. In fact, during the general policy debate, the PSC proposed a Catalan pact against male violence which, in fact, did not develop or explain what it should be like or how it should be done, but we already know how this imitation of the recent policies ends. And I'm not talking about a topic that's neither so competitive, nor so alone about a theme like the government, but of an optical, of a certain way of doing politics that is followed by that which is done in Madrid. And it's funny – and now the Junts deputy said – that, despite everything, all the proposals that the Spanish government had called for have not been accepted to the papers. She said that we have parliamentary groups in Madrid to be able to make all these proposals, but we cannot ignore – and, in fact, this is one of the themes for which many of us are independent – state restrictions. And, therefore, neither can we stop complaining, also from the Parliament of Catalonia, certainly questions to the Spanish State. And if not, they offer all the competitions. Despite the emptiness, some of the petitions that make this proposal drink from the experience of reforming the law of male violence that we approved in the past legislature, all the while obviating it in the motion. And I put it in value because at these points it doesn't appear, and I think it's no less. We have a law of Catalan masclist rapes that was already a pioneer in 2008, which was approved with the consent of the feminist movement and which we expanded and improved only a few months ago. We deepen the law; this is our proposal. We go deeper, we spread the law, we put human resources and economic resources in it. What I put in the attention network for victims of male violence is to improve the tools we already have, to deploy the laws we already have and to have a presumption that we can keep it in the shortest possible time and to execute it. Therefore, our proposal – which is not a good one for this young man, although we will vote for a majority of points – is this. And, in fact, the compromise announced by the government the other day is that we can make this presentation of the laws with this proposal that we made, presented for the commons, to improve, to expand, to renew and to update, to bring to the 21st century the law of 2008 of male violence, that what we intended to do was to remove the male violence from the private sphere, from the sphere of the pair and from the outside, and, therefore, to understand that there are multiple forms, multiple backgrounds, that there is not only the violence between the sphere of the pair. And therefore, with this will, we believe that the catal model of attention to victims of male violence is good. What is needed is that we deploy this law, this reform of the law, which has only a few months. And this is our proposal. Despite the fact that Mrs Grau believes that with our discussions we have lowered the proposal of the PSC, I, in turn, have the feeling that this proposal was less than what the Government of Catalonia is proposing to respect the attention of victims of male rapes. And, therefore, our expectations consider that they are much higher than these twenty-three points. Also, after all..., even though I've accepted many of your reviews, Mrs. Grau, it's our proposal, it's not the PSC's. Therefore, we will vote for the majority of points in favour. Even so, we appreciate the possibility of being able to disagree and to talk about these issues in the Parliament of Catalonia, but we consider that this proposal is the only one that is re-centralizing, putting pieces, and that does not go to a structural change in the law of male violence that we have very well connected to the last legislature. And, therefore, we believe that this is the line: to deploy this law, to make it effective and that it is not, as always, a recommendation, but an obligation. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.198.0	And then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mónica Lora.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.199.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Well, the Socialist Party is presenting us with a motion on the loneliness and defence of women victims of violence that you label as ‘machist'. And there are realities that they do not seem to be interested in talking about, but that doesn't mean they don't exist. Because ill-treated men exist, just as ill-treated children and elders do, but all of you obviously talk about it. Yeah, they used to talk about it. And as what is not named in this Parliament seems to exist, for you, I want to take advantage of my intervention from the speaker who gives us this atrium, since it has never been done until VOX arrived, to make a defense and a recognition to all victims of domestic violence, without exception. And we want to show our full solidarity and support with all the victims. [[Some applause.]] When will we see a parliamentary initiative that speaks specifically about domestic violence? When will we see it, for example, promoted by parliamentary parties such as the Socialist Party or other political formations? It's sad, but I doubt it will. But from our Parliamentary Group in VOX we have already recorded a number of proposals in this regard, in which all of you will be able to rectify your sectarian position and will have the opportunity to position yourself in favour of all victims of domestic violence so that they have equal protection and defence. They will have the opportunity, for example, to support measures such as providing coverage, protection and assistance to all persons, as well as within the family nucleus, to suffer some form of violence; to publish figures, statistical data and reports on all types of domestic violence, regardless of who the perpetrator is and who the victim is; to repeal Law 5/2008 of 24 April on the right of women to eradicate macho violence in order to draft a law on domestic violence; and to amend Parliament's duel protocol to set the minutes of silence in this Parliament for all victims of domestic violence. And we will not tire of saying that violence has no sex. And that there are people, regardless of their sex, who exercise violence, and other people who do not. And because there are some men who exercise violence, that doesn't give them the opportunity to criminalize and point out men. And that's something you understand up to a five-year-old. And we deeply regret that we are being offered proposals such as this, which continue to foster inequality among citizens. Because the measures they propose only increase hatred of men, and also make a partisan use of the drama of abused women. And it is that from our parliamentary group we will always support all those proposals that collect equality between all Spaniards before the law; that they also defend the presumption of innocence, the hardening of penalties and closing their chiringuitos to allocate those resources to what really matters and to protect all victims equally. And, in this sense, we do want to leave you a very clear message, as many of you are experts in media manipulation: that there is no gender-based violence does not mean that there are no abused women. And that is very clear to us, and we want to send all our support to these abused women. [[Some applause.]] And we ask all of you to stop once and for all using all of your social and media engineering artillery against VOX. Because you know what? In the end it is not against VOX; it is against the common sense of the majority of Catalans, including many of their voters, whom you treat as lambs, until they get tired and tired and abandon them. Then yes, gentlemen, common sense will have triumphed. And whether or not you vote for VOX, that will be our big win. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.200.0	All followed, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the words of Mrs Basha Change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.201.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, we've been surprised by the motion for a resolution, not because it's not necessary, which is very necessary, and more at the gates than we are, right? On November 25th, dealing with this issue... We were also surprised by the fact that it is twenty-three points because, as we always say, it is a common practice of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to make proposals for a resolution very long, but yes... What surprised us is to find some things that we could positively value in a feminist view that, from our parliamentary group, we always used to criticise hard, right? Therefore, I will start with the positive things that this motion for a resolution does have, which, in general, is very small for us, and, in general – as I say – we will vote for most of the points in favour. Indicates better service. A very remarkable point: the personalized follow-up service, which we believe, therefore, is very necessary and that every effort must be made to deploy it and to last it to the end for the same reasons – we agree – which the deputy Gemma Lienas, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, argued. Unifying protocols to the service also seems very important to us to be able to meet the same criteria and target all survivors of male violence, and also to optimize their resources. Improve the facilities of the commissioners and jutjats. The continuing training of professionals and the celebrancy in legal assistance... seems positive to us, because it dignifies the process and facilitates the complaint process, doesn't it? That's a triangle, that's a key point, that's a very important moment. And there's a problem associated with this sub-denomination that we think these measures, so, somehow, can help to deal with. About the diffusion of existing services and the best of colliding services..., it seems to us positive, because it gives estabilized for survivors of male violence. And it's that one of the problems we currently have is that, when a complaint situation is given about a situation of violence, it's usually the woman who has to leave the municipality, because the resources we have right now in the abst remain in another municipality, etc., and this woman, therefore, loses all of the network, the whole support system, etc. So everyone who goes to fill these resources seems to be a positive issue. Now, there's a point in the denial... two, concretely. Well, there are two points that make reference to the question of wrists for abusers. Why do we consider this to be denied? Because we consider it a punitive approach to the management of masculinist rapes. And it is that one of the questions that is essential for us at the time of the treatment of cases of male violence is to do everything possible to guarantee non-repetition. And a guarantee of non-repetition implies a prevention, for a band, and, when the fact has occurred, a re-education, doing everything possible not only to prevent them from getting back in touch, victim and attacker, and that the victim, therefore, is in the best possible condition, but to focus, spend resources on this attacker so that you understand what he has done and can prevent him from repeating himself in other people. Now, you also have a lot of shortcomings, this motion for a resolution. And there's a lot of shortcomings that we didn't want to reverse or visibly review because we think it's a question of background and look, of feminist vision, let's say, of the proper articulated or the proper written. For example, functional diversity and mental health are lacking. If we are talking about defence and women's loneliness, we must take into account the situations in which women, because of their disability and mental health, do not have independence in communication or access to resources. There are also gender-dissident identities, with their concrete defencelessness; irregular administrative situations, where it is a habit to report for one for a start of a deportation journey; criminalization and persecution, and, above all, the lack of youth in one month in which we have seen how especially – and I will be there later in the youth movement – young women younger than twenty-one years are affected in a very difficult way, according to the latest data. We believe that it is a very difficult fault of this motion for a resolution, but that it can go forward in the future. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.202.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.203.0	Thank you, President. I think I'll take the risk, too, of being a little repetitive with other interventions that have taken place before. Indeed, she is a long young woman who seeks to be complete and who seeks to touch many themes related to attention to victims of male violence. You have chosen, we understand, to be exhaustive, but to us, therefore, you have also called us a little attention that has been forgotten by a small thing, as is to do with the Catalan legislation of struggle against masculinist rapes. And it's that the point of the end is like... I mean, one read it and said, "Oh, well, it's interesting things, "That's, well, I have to think about it... But then, you get to the end and say, "Based all the actions on women victims of male violence on the convention of Istanbul – agree – "and on the Law 4/2015, of April 27, of the state of the victim of crime – agree – "taking into account that violence against women is the result of the education of a patriarchal system – yes", and the Law 8/2005, which was one of the pioneer laws in the State, a law that was the fruit of a whole process involved with the feminist movement, that is one of the languages that was in the past? In fact, the state law up after, and there are some things that incorporate the Catalan law, as it was said – take the violence from the space of the pair – that are not incorporated yet, that progresses with the law that is beginning to be processed now at the Congress, and that the Catalan law incorporates. But it's not just that. It is then, in effect, after several years of having this law in force and there have been reports and assessments that what they showed was that it could not be fully deployed because it had not been provided with the necessary resources to do so, the assessment that it was done years after the application of the law basically said that there were things to change, that there were things that had been left out at the time, just looking for a consensus that at that time, therefore, was not given – as, for example, institutional rape – but, above all, that no resources had been allocated. Then, from our group we presented the initiative to reform this law to improve it, to expand it and to strengthen it. And it's a law that was approved not yet a year ago, because it's Law 17/2020, and its text doesn't refer to it either, despite the fact that many of the things that exist between this text are in fact already reflected in the law that was approved last year's dismemberment. So, it seems to me that it's like a little weird, trying to talk about male violence, without being clear about the Catalan mark. A law, certainly, the 17/2020, which, for a band, has been resorted to by the Constitutional Court for the People's Party, which, once more, does not like to lose votes very much, while they voted many points in favour of this law when we did the debate and worked hard enough on it during the questioning, but, still, they have decided to put their pledge there to bring it to the Constitutional. And, indeed, there is an initiative of VOX – to which we, as it could not be surprising either, we have presented a goal to the totality – that what it wants is to repeal the laws of male violence that there is in Catalonia. There is one thing that is said by the majority of Parliamentarians. And I would say that the common sense of Catalonia's citizenship is not precisely for what the eleven deputies of VOX say, but for what we give the rest of the parties that we are represented in this chamber, that we mostly believe that violence is masculist, mostly, and that it obeys a patriarchal system. So, that's what we're talking about: victims of male violence. As I said, there are many points in this motion that are gathered into the law, and we insist that what is missing, what has been missing so far, is political will and resources to deploy it. It is true that the law reforming 8/2005 is recent, a few months ago that it is on the march, but – we have spoken to the council several times in interventions here in the plenary – one of the great – with forgiveness – tests of the side of its council will be seen if there is a sooner and later on in this political will and in these resources destined to deploy it in the update of the March Protocol for the approach of masclistic rapes, which we understand has already been announced that it will be on the march. And we have said this a number of times: we believe that he has had the ability and the ability to take advantage of people who are experts in this matter, people who were there when Law 8/2005 was made, and therefore we have asked him many times that there is this ability on the part of the Government to give an answer to what really needs to be led by the Council. As I say, a lot of points we'll give you support, and there's no other people we don't see clearly. For us, in change, the first point of the agreement has various problems. We don't just hear the figure that's being raised, because, in the end, it's incorporating a new figure into the attention patterns that now, for example, would not be necessary in SIES, because there's already a attention pattern and there's a social worker working with the victims of male violence. What SIES require are resources, we insist, resources to get to more women – therefore, territorial equity in access to specialized intervention services – but also dignify the profession and dignify the working conditions of people working at SIES. SIADs..., would not be a turn of offices for twenty-four hours if SIADs recover what is their function, which is an information service and attention to women – they are not a service for attention to the emergence of victims of male violence. So I wouldn't have heard a turn of offices for twenty-four hours, seven days a week, in an information service. As we say, some things we will vote for; of other things... we have a lot of doubts. But, above all, we believe that there has indeed been a lack of a global view of attention to women victims of male violence. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.204.0	And finally, on behalf of the Joint Group, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.205.0	Thank you very much, President. You see, today you're raising a young man here who, if there's no doubt, is a very worrying issue, and the focus is only on women, but I think that this is a problem that is not excluded from women. There's rape against the great people, there's rape against the children, there's rape against the disabled – they don't fight, it's a very serious issue – there's rape... [[Widow's remorse.]] No, no... I know it's hard, it's disrespectful, that when I talk about violence against the great people, I talk about violence against the children, I talk about violence against the disabled and I talk about violence against the men, that also exists, you're infume – infume. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm sorry, it's a reality. And that he's wanted... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Please, I haven't interrupted anyone, I've been very polite. And when you want to discriminate...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.206.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.207.0	...this public debate is making a mistake. It's not all right. [[Greetings.]] Many laws have been made, very many, many organizations have been created, many economic resources have been allocated to them – which I would like to know how many of these economic resources actually end up in the victims of genere – but the problem is still here, we have not eradicated it. We have not eradicated it, this type of violence – we have not eradicated it. And why haven't we eradicated it? Because we are not making the right approach to this problem, and we need to do a rethink. But it's that I got to the point of thinking that you care more about the report than the problem. This is an educational problem and it is a lack of values problem. May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, And it can't be a political lobby. It's a tough problem. And, as I say, they are much more concerned about the approach to this topic from the report than from the reality of what's going on. If not, how do they explain that today's speech continues to push against men in general, to whom they directly link with violent attitudes? I don't know, the men who are here, how they accept this, passively... you are all possible aggressors, you are all potential attackers, you are all potential attackers, you are all potential abusers and you are all potential rapists. It's barbaric. And you tell them someone who has lived in Barcelona City Hall, in a center where you say you have to re-educate the man – re-educate the man. Are we in the Republic of Xina or where are we? It's a barbarity, the speech they're making. He who assaults is an aggressor; he who mistreats is an abuser; he who kills is a murderer. And this is not man-excluded assets – it is not man-excluded assets. And they're wrong– they're wrong– hardening the speech with heteropatriarchal systems, with the man..., with his testosterone and his violent attitude. It's not true – it's not true. We all live together among people... people who are not violent, who are not aggressors. The lady's fine. The lady's fine, and we'll give her support. In the end, it proposes measures that are common sense and that do not only favour victims of gender-based violence: they favour any victim who enters a police station or who has to go to a court or who has to have an attorney's assistance for any type of violence. There's a lot to do, that's right. They sweep things that they don't want to see with gender-based violence, but in the end it's something that's a lot on top of it. But, really, trees don't stop them from seeing the woods. We won't prevent rape, no kind of rape, and we won't prevent male rape criminalizing the man. He's not going through here. At least they won't find me in this. We must have a rigorous debate about how to fight something that is tiring – that is tiring – and that is to fight and that is to be condemned..., but rigorously, and not limiting it to the speech – which seems to me to be the most important thing – to keep seeing a report that, in the end, gets bogged down by a big lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.208.0	Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy Gemma Lienas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.209.0	Thank you, President. I will not pronounce on the papers, but on the invectives, which there have been many. Mrs. Change, I'll do a fifty-point motion next time so I don't have to leave anything. Madam Segovia, it is that the mark of reference was not all: it was the loneliness of women who suffer male violence. Mrs. Diaz, you surprised me all of you today, after all so moderate yesterday, when we tried... when we traded, when we were negotiating. In fact, today's what I always correspond to, is what I know. [[Rialles.]] The motion regresses the demands of everyone and all the professionals with whom I have interviewed myself during the months. We have a magnificent law, but without unfolding, and soon it will be a year. [[Greetings.]] During this year, eight women have been murdered – eight women. Mrs. Grau, waste of time? It's unbelievable. It's an indignity to say that. I should have thrown his face at the shame of thinking about all the murdered women and victims of male violence. [[Greetings.]] My feminism is the same feminism as that of Mrs. Calvo, it's the feminism of equality. And I don't know a new girl in feminism, I've been a militia for sixty years, and I have a lot of books published about feminism. I did realize that you don't know anything about feminism. And I want to recommend it... when I was told yesterday that you wanted me to get rid of that male violence from patriarchal education, and I told you that we wouldn't get rid of it because it was truncated for feminism, he told me that you couldn't hear patriarchal without matriarchy. Well, it became clear to me that you have no idea about feminism. And I recommend that you read the Gerda Lerner, the creation of patriarchy. Well, that's all. [[Greetings. Basha Changue Canalejo asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.210.0	Mrs. Changue?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.211.0	Yeah. Our parliamentary group calls for a separate vote on points 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.212.0	Twenty-four. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Mr. Cid?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.213.0	Yeah. To ask for a separate vote on points 1, 4 and 23, which could be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.214.0	Perfect. All right. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Vilalta?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.215.0	To ask for separate vote also from points 1, 3, 4, which could go together, and point 14 and 23, which could also go together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.216.0	Okay. So let's start the vote. We're voting points 1, 3 and 4. [[Pause.]] Has the 3rd asked you separately? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] U, 4 and 23, I have, for a band; 13 and 14; 14 and 23. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, perfect. We're voting points 1 and 4. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That's right, thank you. Begin. Points 1 and 4 were not approved, with 43 votes in favour, 76 votes against and 14 abstentions. We're voting point number 13 now. The vote begins. Point 13_has been approved, with 107 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 15 abstentions. We're voting on the 14th point now. The vote begins. Point 14_has received 42 votes in favour, 12 against and 78 abstentions. We're voting point number 23. The vote begins. Point 23_has received 43 votes in favour, 11 against and 79 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has received 51 votes in favour, 76 against and 6 abstentions. And now we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points were approved, with 116 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 6 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into inclusive school and the fight against school segregation]] [[302-00038/13]] Let's move on to twenty-five on the order of the day, the motion following the Government's inquiry into inclusive school and the fight against school segregation, presented for the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win. To give us the presentation, Mr Carles Riera has the word. [[Pause.]] Deputy, if you want to do..., if up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.217.0	Well, thank you, President. As the counselor must remember, we asked him an inquiry in which we placed the focus on the school model, on the education model. In that model that, from our point of view, better fights segregation and better guarantees inclusiveness and equity. And, therefore, we also wanted, obviously, and consequently, that the motion is focused on issues that for us are key, they are essential, from the point of view of the educational model, if not, that we defend. And to talk about inclusive school, let's ask ourselves what inclusive school is. So, it seems an obvious thing: the one that I include; that effectively integrates the entire studentship with all its diversity– and subratlo‘with all its diversity– and that makes this inclusive of diversity as a value, not as a problem; as an educational value, as a social value, as a school value, in short. And that includes all the diversity of its reference territory and of the educational community – therefore, of all its surroundings. And, before this definition of "inclusive school," we have to ask ourselves whether this is what is currently going on at home or not. Our conclusion is that this is not what is happening at our house, or that we still need much to get to what would be desirable or what would be ideal. From our point of view – we have had occasion, counselor, to discuss this in the inquiry – it is the current model of education, based on three types of school, which is at stake and it is a root cause that we do not meet desirable levels, or very few ideals, of inclusiveness and struggle against segregation. Why? So why are there two types, of these three that constitute the current model of education in Catalonia..., that are not inclusive and that are segregating: much of the concerts and all the private ones. They are choices that do not include, do not integrate, that do not incorporate in an equal, equitable way, all diversity, all the diversity of the educational community and its surroundings. And what's still worse: the right and the extreme right are defending that this segregation, that this inequality, that this does not include, is necessary and desirable, because it's what best serves the reproduction of the model of society that they defend. And we also have to ask that, for some sectors of the left or for some liberal sectors, this included this segregation, this lack of equality, it is tolerable – it is tolerable – it is to be assumed at a certain level; it is considered structural, necessary and normal, it is natural. Well, we don't agree. We consider it necessary to combat any degree of inequality, injustice, exclusion, non-inclusiveness and segregation. It does not seem to us to be tolerable, neither necessary nor consumable at the level of segregation, and for this reason we go to the arena, to the cause, putting into discussion the current educational model. For us the solution is obvious – we have always said it, we repeat it again –: a single, public, universal and free network for everyone, in which all, absolutely all the schools and without exception lock and assume all the complexity, all the diversity that is around it – all the diversity, I insist, without exception. And for us, a school that is truly inclusive is one in which inclusiveness, inclusiveness, does not rely on the over-effort and over-burden of educational professionals, teaching staff, or on the resistance and heroization of families who are to bring their children with special educational needs to the schools. The inclusion cannot be a race of obstacles; it cannot be a race of obstacles that students with special educational needs and that their families must overcome step by step. Obstacles that each time are higher and harder to overcome as the cycle of education advances. And, in this sense, inclusion is still more difficult at secondary school than at primary school, and not to speak of post-compulsory school. And why is that? So because there aren't enough resources, because our school doesn't enjoy enough resources, the resources needed to ensure this inclusiveness, to ensure this inclusiveness. That's the problem. And this is the question that we plant through this motion and the different points that we plant: the reversal of this model and the defense of a model that is truly inclusive and that guarantees fairness in our educational system and, consequently, in our social system. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.218.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, to defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.219.0	Well, thank you and good afternoon. In the first place, two thanks to Carles, to Mr. Riera. One for the taranna, say, in the debate at the time of incorporating the items, of making transactions. And the second, for the text you define that carries us, that I think is an important text. It's important, because it's evidence that you need to go to an inclusive school and fight against school segregation. I think this is a strategic element for the country and a foundational element. Because, really, if we want a society of men and women, of citizens and citizens, more equal, more free and more fraternal, we need a determined bet for a school or for a democratic education and for a critical education, as the young man put forward. Because men and women with a democratic education and a critical education are able to analyze the reality to transform it; they are able to hear that not everything goes, that it is not all the same; they are able to hear that nothing is predetermined, because there are no unalterable dogmas, but that it is applied science that allows us to transform reality into the benefits of social justice, of social adventure, of progress, in short, of society. This is why it is important to start the movement by clearly placing these values of school, democratic education and criticism, based on knowledge, cures and work – which is important to bear in mind – and, above all, collected in a curriculum that takes into account the values of feminism, anti-racism and anti-physicalism, as key elements to advance, say, to this society, every more democratic, freer and equal time. For this reason, more than reinforcing the curricula and so on, I believe that the young person is clearly situated in order to advance in this school model, in this inclusive model, in this non-segregative model, we need to act on the programming and general organization of the education system, and to bet on an education system where the public school follows the fundamental articulation of this education model and, therefore, that it is limited, that it is avoided, that all segregative education is eliminated. I believe that this is clear in this bet decided for the priority of the public school as the articulating nuclei of the educational model that is desired. And, therefore, guarantee the sufficient resources and equipment necessary to equip this public school with the necessary quality and educational care that avoids any type of discrimination. But I also understand that, beyond the narrow school environment, there is non-formal education, out-of-school education, which also educates and can also secrete if we don't do it well. And that's why it's also important that the motion incorporates the need for extra-curricular activities to be recognized and that it is an element that avoids any type of discrimination for economic elements or for any type of discrimination, that there are many, unfortunately, in our society, and that can act decisively from public powers to avoid it. And it is important that, in this sense, I put it clearly, the subject of the motion. In the same way that the elements referring to acting on the programming of the equipment of the school buildings are located on the site. Because discrimination isn't just, sometimes, how we organize the education system, it's not just, sometimes, how we apply the curriculum; it's also certain types of construction, certain educational equipment, where in the path, for example, it generates segregation between children and children at the time of sharing the game's path and spaces. It is also important that, when making school equipment, we take into account that school equipment must also fulfil a function of integration, non-segregation, maximum educational integration. That's why I think this is a very important young man, because you define a country strategy of a determined educational model that is the foundation of the foundation if we want to build a society of men and women, citizens and citizens, freer, more equal and more fraternal. If we do not have an inclusive school and a segregating school, society will not be inclusive and society, unfortunately, will be segregating. Therefore, it is important to bet on inclusiveness and non-segregation in the educational model. Thank you, Carles, for the grace and effort you've made.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.220.0	Then there is the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.221.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Counsel, Members and Members, the motion presented today by the CUP addresses two issues that seem to us to be priorities, such as inclusive school and struggle against segregation; questions that have been worked by the Socialist Group Unites per Avançar for some time, and we will try to follow it contributing and pushing, given its importance. They are two challenges that are still unsolved by the education system in Catalonia, which have not been driven with determination by the latest governments and the solace of which we can no longer keep up if we believe that education is synonymous with progress, equal opportunities, cohesion and, therefore, if we believe in equal educational opportunities. We hope that the proper presupposition agreement will include the resources needed to make decisive progress in this direction, which we have not seen in the last presuppositions approved neither with the CUP nor with the common ones. And so it seems to us, in the first place, that it is essential – it is a question that raises the motion – that the educational centers of the Education Service count with the teaching and support resources sufficient to attend adequately to this growing diversity – and concretely, therefore, the student with specific educational needs of educational support –, and to gather thus also the teacher with them, with more training, to be able to accurately make the early detection that allows after having diagnostics and treatments before now and, therefore, to advance towards this fully inclusive education system. We also share with the CUP that the Department of Education must provide the necessary public offer of schooling in a vicinity, must avoid reclosing lines of P3 or groups, as they have done in many municipalities, and address, once and for all and in a context of davallada of birth, a general reduction of ratios, agreed, obviously, with the local world and the educational community. Probably this is the measure that the most consensus generated between this community, like co-docency, isn't it? , allow more individualized attention and this necessary attention to diversity. And, on the other hand – and in this point, thanks to the CUP that has accepted our message – it is essential to guarantee this public and free place to the student in the zero-three stage of education, advancing in universalization, in gratuity, which is a truly decisive stage. And that is why we need to put sufficient resources at our disposal in the next fiscal year. I'm warning you that we don't expect you to cheat at the cost of the square, as I can see, because there's just not enough to take on two-thirds of the funding for this school. That's a necessary condition, but it's not enough. I can also create new public places, because with the current ones there is not enough. And, therefore, this must be done ahead of schedule, depending on the territorial and social needs. We also hope that the Government will pass the regulations of the decree of the fooder, which the educational community rejected years ago on various occasions. Here I want to remind you that there are still many gatherings that are paying for monitors and monitors that pay attention to the student with special educational needs to the fooder. And above all that is recovered, as we have agreed, the service of fooder to the institute and, obviously, the aids linked to this service, which are the ones that the Government of Artur Mas, with the support of the PP, have been carrying for years. Likewise, therefore, we want a public policy of the department to promote and guarantee access to extra-curricular activities, since the band's Bretxa does not read every time is more important and generates more inequalities. And, for what she does to the concert, we obviously defend co-responsible centers, compromised with the public education service. And we share, as it cannot be otherwise, that concerts should not be renewed to schools that do not comply with any of the public service objectives, such as co-education through mixed schooling, in the case of schools that secrete by sex, or others that may refuse to attend certain student profiles, which are certainly minority. But we think that this decision has to be reinforced with the decree of concerts that we still don't have, which they announced years ago. Now we have the basis of the LOMLOE, of the new educational pact, but we also need to strengthen legislation in Catalonia. And at this point, then, we have to say that we are surprised that they did not accept the slogan, when they talk about eliminating the payment of quotas to the concerted centres. To us it seems very good, because, obviously, it has to be advanced in the gratuitousness of education, of which we are still far away. But how do we think we do it if we don't provide the necessary funding? We believe that, in fact, the funding of the joint education system – which is underfunded – needs to be improved, and that a greater amount of this funding should also be provided to the concerted centres to compliment the anti-segregation pact, to provide resources to adequately cater for that student with specific educational support needs. Because, if not, it could precisely pass those most co-responsible schools, with a more social composition, set the least viable economically and, surely, those with the most risk of closing the doors. And in change, those most elite survive, who are the ones we don't want to finance with public money. That is to say, we share the objective, but that is why we need to put more resources on the table. And that's what we've been asking about the issue that hasn't been accepted, and that's why we're abstaining at this point. And here's to say there's also going to be a different vote of units to move forward. As for the català, we believe that the proposal is reasonable because it confirms what establishes the law of education in its title II, which fixes the català, which is the language normally used as a vehicle and learning. In this sense, we also appreciate the transaction. And this does not exclude that there are others, such as the castle, which also has to be settled perfectly, like the català, at the end of the ESO, and obviously we would add a third language. And, obviously, therefore, we agree to continue to promote the social use of català in the school environment, as has been done years ago, but increasing resources to that effect. And, therefore, we will vote mostly on the joint motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.222.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.223.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon. Well, today we have a CUP motion that has really interesting elements. In fact, it is a motion on which we will vote in favour at various points; we will abstain at other points, and we will also vote not at some of the points. When we talk about inclusive school, I think it's a..., I think it's interesting, because it's a topic that's very topical in our community, and it makes me realize that it's a question that really matters. Many times we regret that it is not about questions that really interest citizens, and I think that the issue of inclusive education, including people with some kind of disability in schools, let's say, from the public or concerted network, seems to me to be a topic that needs to be discussed. Yes, it's true that... I'm going back here to look at Congresswoman Niubo, because it's a subject we're often talking about. I from this point of view and my parliamentary group have a position perhaps a little more eclectic, a little more heterodox, which is that we do not consider, let us say, in absolute terms that inclusive education must be a total objective, holistic, global; it must be, I believe, a desire. And it is true that the aspiration is reasonable to achieve that people who have some kind of disability are able to incorporate into the mainstream schools, but it is true that there are certain cases of people with disabilities in which it is precisely possible to maintain, protect and preserve those schools of differentiated education or special education for people with this kind of problem or with this kind of disability, in concrete terms. Some of us also say this from the personal standpoint, from the fact that we have met a person or have a person in the family, that we are aware that the families, some of the families prefer, in fact, the fact of preserving these schools of special education. And, therefore, we do not add to the idea, let us say, that inclusiveness must be a total objective and that it cannot have nuances; on the contrary, we believe that it must be preserved, it must be guaranteed the continuity of special education schools, meaning harm to the objective of inclusiveness, which, in fact, seems to me to be feasible and to share it in good measure. On the other hand, there are other things of this kind that seem to be acceptable to us, such as guaranteeing universal access to the student's service as a school waiter, as well as guaranteeing out-of-school activities for students. There are no other changes – I said that this morning and I would not like to repeat it – with which we are in complete disagreement. When we talk about sex-differentiated schools, I think that here there is an authentic – I said this morning – Croatian against this class. From the agnosticism and from my personal position, let's say, that we do not consider the best form of education differentiated by sex, I believe that the holding of concerts, also from concerts with these schools, was precisely for the pluralism of a society that respects the right to choose from the peers, and this right is a recognized right for all international conventions, and I believe that, from this point of view, we would do little favor to pluralism and the same coexistence continuing with this Croatian. And, in fact, I think it's to regret the fact that the government has announced this will to end, cancel, these concerts with the concerted schools that differ by sex. Finally, the question of language. For us, it is a laudable goal to promote the social use of Catalan language in school, whenever this does not imply, or much less, normalize things like the Platform for Language, with its unacceptable espionage to the classrooms and to the legs of Catalan schools. And, on the other hand, we consider that it is perfectly compatible to encourage the use of català with encouraging the use of castle. I suppose it is a battle, with separatist parties, lost, but I personally believe that, like the city of Catalonia, I feel that I am morally obliged to try, to the extent possible, to teach the idea that it is perfectly possible to have a balanced life of bilingualism, to have a balanced life and to consider perfectly compatible the use of the catal and the use of the castle and the encouragement of all two languages, which are the majority of our community, together with the Aranes, the school and all the public and private spheres. For this reason, I believe that the promotion of the use of the Catalan language must also be accompanied by the promotion and use of the other language of the citizens of Catalonia, which is the castle. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.224.0	Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Anna Erra has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.225.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, today presents us a motion the CUP, which above all we could divide into three large blocks: a serious the català, included it and school segregation. And in many of these points we can find and feel very comfortable there, especially with the defense of the català, to work in the social use of the language, because in the schools follow the vehicle language, so that we can truly guarantee a knowledge of the català and, above all, the language is, therefore, the most used both inside the school and outside, especially when we are talking about what extracurricular activities or readings are. For us, català is a foundational pillar. And, above all, it is connected with Catalonia, which we are very concerned about is also linguistic immersion, this great social and political consensus that there was in Catalonia and that now it is to be said that with LOMLOE to us, like Junts per Catalunya, it makes us not to remain completely protected, after the aggression that constantly has the Catalan language. With all this, we with what language is would totally agree. And the other side that they also work on is what inclusive school is. We all believe in moving forward with what inclusive school is. We know that, obviously, there has to be the presuppositional endowment that you want to do better before that, but we know that everything that includes all the personal diversity that can be in the schools, that's the only thing you do is enrich, in the background, the educated world. And, above all, that you also say in the youth, which is included to the beggars, to go trying to recover all that is the school beggars, as also in which is the extracurricular activities, that here there is the great work that is done above all from the educational plans around, that in the local world is a glue of activities to promote these activities so that they are for everyone. And with all this we're going to the other side that you work above all else, which is school segregation, isn't it? , the fair distribution, the real cost of the school square, resources, quotas, concerts... We here, like Junts, believe that we have to work – and it seems to me that we are working – against what school segregation is, but we have very clearly that in order to advance in this aspect we have to make good what the Education Servant of Catalonia is in the mark of the LEC, in the mark of the law of education of Catalonia. We want to overcome this dichotomy between public and concerted centres, and really advance towards a real integration, because it is with the Education Service of Catalonia and with a better of which is funding, as it was agreed when, from the school segregation pact, it was well known the cost of the square, that we could advance above all in school segregation, in making a good balanced distribution and providing the necessary resources to weigh all the schools according to their complexities. This is what gave the school segregation pact, and it seems to me that it was the one that had a great political and social consensus and that we feel very comfortable. And with all this I would like, and above all speaking of school segregation and perhaps because today also referred to the deputy Swordler, to be able to get, therefore, a recognition to which would be a mayor of Vic, Mr Jacint Codina, who we lost last week as a citizen and who left a very important arrival in many things, but especially in what was his social and educational vision. Because what was a project referring to Vic, but what was referring to all of Catalonia and what we went forward in what is school segregation, above all is the nickname Vic model. That pact that all the schools, all the network in the city, five public schools and five concerted schools..., we made a city pact, an anti-segregation pact, and what we demonstrated was this intent on social cohesion, equity and progress, above all, because there was no segregation. With all this, we..., we want to move forward, obviously, against school segregation, and we also know that this will help us to this step that the Councillor has already moved forward and that also, like the government pact, we also work on it, that it is achieving universalization of zero at three years, but obviously – obviously – with all centers supported or subsidized with public funds. What we know is that we have to keep all the school map there can be. With all this, what I want to comment on in this young man is that we, like Junts for Catalonia, feel comfortable there, because they are talking about a young man who talks about investing more in education, giving more resources, who is more financially, with teachers, with whom he is most needed; with advancing into this universalization from zero to three years, advancing into inclusive school, with defense, above all, of Catalonia. We feel very comfortable with this, but we have some red lines like Juntes for Catalonia. And it is good that we are in the framework of the Catalonia Education Law that we have approved, with a clear defense of the Catalonia Education Service and also with the impulse and defense of the pact against school segregation. With all this, before the young man there are many points that we have agreed and in some we will abstain and in some we will vote against. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.226.0	I, finally, in this first block of defense of the papers presented, has the word now the deputy Najat Driuech, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.227.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. MPs, MPs... well, I never get used to it, because I think we already know each other here, and a lot of you already know me from the previous legislature, but I think the issue is going on. I deserve it. I will begin my intervention by talking to you about a story about a girl, a girl that on March 15, 1990 up in Catalonia, like so many other girls, from a very small rural area, next to the city of Tangier, named Mzoura. By the time he was nine years old, he had already recorded two different educational systems: the rural and the city of Tangier. Now, he was trying a third in a very different context. In this third year she felt accompanied and, above all, empowered; in fact she allowed a year and a half to be at the same level as the rest of the class's companies. This is the model of school we want, the one that puts the student and his needs in the center. Schoolgirl's a space of equal rights and opportunity. These are the values that accompanied her throughout her education, from school to college. Diversity, interculturality, multilingualism, social cohesion, inclusiveness, solidarity... Key values that define the model of school we want: more democratic, social, feminist, green and Catalan. [[Greetings.]] The child protagonist of the experience I just explained to you. [[Greetings.]] And if I could get to the soc, it's mostly thanks to the model of the Catalan school, and that a lot of them attack because it hurts that this story is a reality. [[Greetings.]] MPs and MPs, we will continue to work because any student in Catalonia who passes through the Catalan education system can have the same opportunities as the rest. We know that we still have a lot of way to go, we're conscious and most of this room is, too. Because we need to make it clear that if we don't do everything we can today, the school will determine the society of the future, and I think most of this hemicicle is clear. If a segregated school is not inclusive, and it will be difficult to guarantee equity and equal opportunities for an inclusive and cohesive society. And this will have a direct impact on all areas of our society. And by passing on to the motion that you present to us today, Companions of the CUP, you know, and we have shown it – you know, we have shown it – that our commitment has always been to make things happen. And that's what we're doing. Now they also have the opportunity to do so with us, approving or supporting the approval of the premise. For what he does at point 4 of the young lady, they know that we can't finish today's concerts tomorrow, and that there's a firm commitment on the part of the counselor – yesterday itself made it clear repeatedly, several times – that there will be no renewal of the concert for a final time. With regard to point 4a, we cannot vote in favour either; it goes against all the procedure of incorporation of the professorship of the public network. Another thing is those centers that fit into the department's public network and where, obviously, there's an agreement that says that no one lost the job as a result of the change of title. With regard to point 7, you know perfectly well the will of this Government to move progressively towards the gratuity of the zero-three-year stage for families, as you also know perfectly well that the competence to plan this public offer does not correspond to the Generality, but to the municipality. That is why, because we share the essence of the proposal, we will abstain, but we cannot vote in favour of it because it is not the exclusive competence of the Government. In the proper assumptions we incorporate the P2, and to go walking the rest, obviously we will not have to keep talking. For what it does to the rest of the points of the motion, advance that we vote in favour of the remainder, and thank Deputy Carles Riera for his willingness to accept the papers. And finally – I know I'm running out of time, President – I would like to dedicate two or three words to a person, a teacher who I've had since these nine years that I arrived, the Vázquez Ampero, who did an ingenious job against segregation and in favor of equality and the culture of pau for my municipality, for Masnou, and who last September 13th left us. There you are, Amparo, I wish only one thing: that poetry did not fail to accompany you. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.228.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, and to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.229.0	Well, thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Counselor, honourable Members... In this motion they are mixed up with totalitarian delusions, which is a consequence more of the ears that you carry embedded in your eyes, which prevents you from seeing beyond your compulsive tribal independence. They say it deals with inclusive school and the fight against school segregation, but they don't mention a single word about how to stop school harassment and its dramatic consequences, such as suicide. Gentlemen of the UPC, you who were present in the previous legislature, why have you not launched the decalogue that Parliament approved in 2020 thanks to the organisation Nace, No to Harassment? Doesn't your inaction against this infamous form of school segregation, which is school harassment or bullying, seem shameful to you? By doing the dirty work that his heads of government have dictated, they demand the extinction of concerts to schools that segregate by sex. Man, and we demand it too, there would be more to it! 'Cause you guys, huh? , tortically use, in a sinister way, the term «segregate, with the criminal and criminal connotations that it has, to refer to the differentiated school, a model of education, of school, which is implanted on the five continents and endorsed by the UNESCO International Convention against School Segregation, signed by all the states of the European Union. It is also a model of success, whether you like it or not. The Fuenllana school, of differentiated education in Madrid, has obtained in the last two years the award of being, according to PISA, the best school in Spain. You have started a witch hunt against thousands of Catalans, teachers, students, families, administrative staff, maintenance staff, kitchen and cleaning, calling them criminals or collaborating with criminal actions, even trying to deprive them of the right to work and education that they consider more appropriate for their children, according to the correct reason, common sense, and article 27.3 of the Spanish Constitution. Is also the wife of her boss, Mr. Aragonès, a less egalitarian woman with stereotypes and sexist? No, I'm asking because he also studied in one of those different schools. [[Some applause.]] By the way, the draft judgment drawn up by the Constitutional Court's presentation anticipates VOX's victory in his appeal against the Government's announcement not to renew the concerts. I'll let you know. I have developed my academic background and teaching at the public school, the mixed concertation, the differentiated concertation and the private mixed school. I can say, with knowledge of cause, that they are all – and I repeat: all – models of success necessary and adequate, essential in a plural society like ours – or it should be. It is shameful that you dogmatitzin say that what is not unique, public and secular education is segregating. Mirin, enough to keep your ears on fire, as we say to my people, huh? Visit the schools, colleges, and they will get the good of the eyes of their harm. You say special education is segregating. Look, it's the parents who have to determine whether they want an inclusive school or a special school, because there are very problematic, very difficult situations, huh? – very difficult –, which require the collaboration of a special school to really relax effective social inclusion. What is to be done is to demand that the resources of Decree 150/2017 are complementary, since most of these resources have not reached the ranks. Finally, about the anxieties of chasing the students who speak castle in the col·legi only a comment: You do not support freedom. The castle is an outlawed language, minority in Catalonia. Do I have to remind you that trades can't retrieve in castle? Do the Noranta-Five_per_cent of public schools only contemplate the castle as the vehicle language? Finally – I finish with this, already – they say you want a tolerant democratic school. Quin cynicism! But how are you going to give lessons of tolerance and democracy when you encourage the violence against whom you are going to disagree with your ideas? During the last plenary session, Mrs. Reguant applauded the violent storm against the organization It's over! at the Autonomous University of Barcelona. In conclusion: doctor heals you yourself. Or if they prefer it: preaching is not giving blat. The best, Mr. Pellicer: out of his Faixist speeches of the Parliament. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.230.0	Finally, and on behalf of the Mixed Group, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.231.0	Thank you very much, President. I, in fact, have to say that it's a big deal today, because you in this young man have put forward some good social proposals – and, in fact, we're going to give it our favorable vote – but you come here and sweep it away with a speech that reflects a sectarianism that I really, really, can't... is that I can't, I can't share it from the bottom of my head. You don't defend public school. You attack the concerted school, which is very different. And, besides, they attack him because they're not polite. And you connect the public school with the state school, which is very different. They are two absolutely different concepts, because I remind you that the concerted school is also a public school. So, when you talk about public school, actually what you want to say is state school. The proper education system must never be attacked by a public channel – never. You always have to defend yourself. And attacking from institutions the education system is the most vicious self-destructive exercise a society can do. And that's what you're doing here today and you've done in various debates that we've had about the concert and the concert school. And in the end, don't be mistaken; you, in the background, don't attack the concerted school, you're attacking the families, you're attacking the couples. And today they have to deal with the couples who take their children to a Catholic concert school, because it's Catholic. And tomorrow, the parents who take their children to a private school will have to suffer, because, according to you, he is elitist. And tomorrow, the parents who take their children to a foreign school will have to suffer, because there are many languages that are not the català, or you see which other reasons will be invented. And in the end, what you really want is to force the parents to take to the school that you have decided is the only one that is valid. And I repeat what I said in the last intervention that we talked about the theme of concerts: the Administration does not have to decide in the place of the pairs; it is the couples who decide where their children are taking to study. The concertation is protected by the Constitution; the right to choose an educational centre is protected by the Constitution, and you today make a statement to the totality. And all those who support the charging of educational concerts are making a statement to the totality to a right that is guaranteed to the Constitution. And what they want is to reform the Constitution by the back door. Well, no, sirs, that's not the way it is. And in the end, they don't deceive us, they come here, they talk about fighting segregation, that there are no elites and that there are no elites and that everyone can study on equal terms. If you eradicate and eliminate and carry the concerted system, what you will do is exactly what you don't want, which is to create elite schools. What do they think the concert school is only for the high classes of Catalonia? It's not true – it's not true. The concerta exists, precisely, in order to be able to give cabuda to many families who, if the school was not arranged, could not bring their children to that center. And, in the end, so much of trying to fight segregation, what they would achieve is segregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.232.0	Finally, to position himself on the exams, has the parable of the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.233.0	Thank you, President. Well, this young man, obviously, and with the format of his definite text, what we would now vote on, is not our political agenda, it is not our electoral program, sense of doubt, but we wanted to make an effort to incorporate, to deal with issues of almost all groups, so that, without giving up any of our fundamental principles or any of our objectives, the end of which is approved in this motion means a progress, an adventure, even though it is partial, even though it is gradual, to those objectives that we do defend, and I will not repeat because we have already explained them in my previous intervention. We have not been able to include the Ciutadans Group's views, because, effectively, if we have admitted them, they are absolutely against what we are defending as an educated model in this country to fight against segregation and in favour of inclusion. We have tried to include papers, incorporate, deal with papers from the rest of the groups, so as to give more strength, more consistency to this young man, and that his approval, or approval of the points that ultimately exceed the vote, really remains solid, consisting and makes the Government, that the Department of Education must take much into account for its application. If not, we'll get old because that's the way it is and we'll do the right follow-up so that it's applied. And just set them up again, outlining again an idea that we've already raised in the previous intervention and that's been a little in the middle of the debate. Look, we consider that no inequality, no inequality is tolerable, no inequality is tolerable, neither is tolerable. And the school system, the school, has a fundamental role to play so as to match what society unequals, so as to contribute to an equal, just and equitable society. And we think our model is the best to do it. Thank you. [[Eva Parera and Escrichs ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.234.0	Yes, Mrs. Parera?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.235.0	It's to ask for a separate vote...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.236.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.237.0	...of the 4th and 5th, which they could go together, and after 7, 8th and 9th, which they can also go together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.238.0	All right, thank you. [[Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Martín Blanco?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.239.0	Yes, President. I hope not to overembolize the exchange, but demand separate vote from points 1, 2, 3, 5 and 7, which could be joint, the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.240.0	One, two, three, five and seven. No, they can't be, because the 5th and 7th also requested them from the Mixed Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.241.0	Okay. [[The timer laughs.]] So this, so separate... I would vote all the separate points, but go...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.242.0	Let's see. Wait. [[Raúl Moreno Montaña asks to speak.]] Mr. Moreno?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.243.0	President, point 4; point 4 was voted on separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.244.0	Any more petitions? [[Marta Vilalta and Torres ask to speak.]] Mrs. Vilalta?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.245.0	We also want the 4 bis. And also repeat the 7th petition, but in the band, without grouping together with any other points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.246.0	Yeah. We've got it. No more petitions? [[Carles Riera Albert asks to speak.]] Mr. Riera?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.247.0	Thank you, President. It is to be asked, if possible, that before their vote points 4 and 5 are read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.248.0	All right, thank you. [[Pause.]] All right, so let's start the vote. We will vote first on the points 1, 2 and 3. The vote begins. These three points were approved with 114 votes in favour, 13 against and 6 abstentions. We now ask the first secretary of the Bureau to read point 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.249.0	« Finalization of concerts with elite schools, discriminations and exclusions with diversity and that secrete by sex. Prohibit and eliminate the compulsory or covert payment of quotas in the concerted centres.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.250.0	We're voting now, so point number four. The vote begins. Point number 4 has not been approved. It received 17 votes in favour, 85 against and 31 abstentions. We're voting now for the four-a-point. The vote begins. The 4 bis point has also not been approved. It received 55 votes in favour, 76 against and 2 abstentions. Now ask the fourth secretary who proceeded to the reading of point number 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.251.0	"Provide public schools with all the teaching and educational resources necessary to ensure their inclusion, according to the objectives and criteria of the inclusive school decree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.252.0	We're voting point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has received 82 votes in favour, 11 against and 40 abstentions. We will now vote on point number 7. The vote begins. Point 7_has received 51 votes in favour, 11 against and 71 abstentions. We're voting 8 and 9 points now. The vote begins. Points 8 and 9 were approved with 122 votes in favour and 11 against. And finally we vote for the rest of the points, which are number 6 and number 10. The vote begins. These points were approved with 114 votes in favour, 13 against and 6 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation of young people]] [[302-00039/13]] Let's get to the twenty-six on the order of the day, the motion following the question to the government about the young people's situation. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Pomem, has the word Ms Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.253.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, today we are debating a motion to talk about the future of our country, because talking about young people is talking about the project we have with the country. And considering that we are carrying more than two years of abandonment to a generation that has experienced precariousness as its only life experience, patenting two economic, social and now also climatic crises, we believe it is time to get to work. This young man, as you know, is a follow-up to an inquiry he made in Comú Podemos in the plenary before the Government. But it would be rude and unfair to say that we alone are concerned about the problems of young people, and the parliamentary groups that have raised and, therefore, improved the content of this young man, also share the concerns that the National Council of Youth of Catalonia, today in this Chamber, has brought us here during the meetings that we had during the last weeks. For many years the institutions have been part of the problem and not part of the solutions, but we still believe that from the government and from Parliament we are in time to give a breath and legislate in favor of this generational justice that we still have pending. And that is why we are presenting this young man, not only with the vocation of this Government, but also with the desire to go further and that this Parliament of Catalonia is approaching a specific plethora of young people to listen and above all apply everything that for so long the youth entities have brought us to the political forces, but that we still have an application pending, as we have registered with other parliamentary groups that have put forward the proposal. It is necessary to put youth policies at the centre, which move us, the same young people, these needs, and how the prospects for the future that the young people are approaching at zero and, on the contrary, the needs and demands that they make are sufficient to them, that pass through the spheres of emancipation, that includes occupation and access to housing, education, culture, struggle against racist rapes, LGTBóbiques, masclists; the need for the promotion of youth associationism, mental health, among many other themes, we believe that it must be young people, in this plenary that is done, who have to explain and spread them. Therefore, I in my speech will simply state three aspects which seem to us, from our parliamentary group, to be key. In the first place, we set a maximum date for this Ple. We believe that the current context makes it urgent that it is celebrated on this date and that it is not drifting. In fact, let us also take advantage of the fact that the specific ple of mental salvation that President Aragonès has requested today places a specific aside to deal with juvenile mental salvation, not only with assumptions, but with timetables and concrete actions. Second place, precariousness and occupation. Here we highlight point 12a, which has certainly been mentioned for the parliamentary groups that are part of the government and, therefore, we understand that with the will of compliments, we promote a tool that centralizes all the information relating to work practices for young people, in coordination with the Department of Enterprise, Research and Universities and Education, led by the Department of Social Rights. In this sense, Councillor Torrent also spoke yesterday of the 216_millions of a plan of shock against youth that includes helping businesses to contract young people. And here we'd like to make a couple of points. U: that we expect it to be produced from social concertation, that it is spoken to unions and entrepreneurs. Two: we are aware that the help given to businesses is no higher than the salary actually received by young people, and we are also careful to perpetuate the temporality. Many times, when these aids were received, the hours of the contract of employment ended. And in the third place..., and before we continue with the third, we would like to put in value the reform of the foreign rule, which, for one band, we consider to be directly abrogated, but that we cannot fail to recognize that there is a little in the rights of young guardians and extolls, who also belong to this young man of this country. And in the third and last place, the alternative oci plan, which we stress must take account of young people not only as consumers. And here the model proposed by the Federació d'Ateneus de Catalunya in terms of contributing the..., providing the amount – forgiveness – of youth dynamitzadores and dynamitzadores, could be a strategy to explore. We encourage you to vote in favour of this young man and to stop normalizing the precariousness to which the young man has been exposed during the last decades. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.254.0	Next, he has the word to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr David González. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.255.0	I don't think I'm the tallest deputy who's ever been through this room. [[Dream of the Rialles.]] Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. The Group of Common We can present to us today this young man, with whom we share the diagnosis that brought us to the debate that we have today. The situation of the young woman in Catalonia is not good, unfortunately, and it is not news for any of this fact. In fact, some people of a given age find it very easy to remember only situations that are not good for young people. When we talk about policies in the youth field, we talk about a set of very different areas that need to be coordinated in order to allow public policies to be applied across political institutions and governments. The Socialist Group has made its proposals public many times. We have talked about the need to achieve a monogram ple in this Parliament before the end of the year. We have talked about education with the innumerable shortcomings that our education system suffers in the field of VET, for example, but also about the precarious situation of the Catalan university system. We have spoken of oci and culture, with the explicit need of our young man to diversify the present night oci and give support to the world of culture, because young men and women also have to enjoy culture. We also talked about stigmatization; I don't know if everything would be warm. We can't keep stigmatizing young people. A vast majority of them and they have been deeply exemplary in their behaviors, in the compliments of all the restrictions marked for the pandemic of covid-19. And also, why not say so? , we have been immunized massively at the time we had the opportunity. As I say, if we're talking about the young man, in fact, we're talking about a lot of things. But we, the Socialist Group, who likes to do politics constructively, we are very aware that we always have to prioritise some questions about others on the political agenda. And, in this sense, the three priorities of the Socialist Group are clear: occupation, emancipation and prevention and detection of young mental health. And all three pillars have one or two things in common, actually. The first is that the three themes are worked, marked and defined for the Socialist Youth of Catalonia. And the second, that all three, unfortunately, are failures of the Republican Left Government and Juntes for Catalonia not this time, but of the last two years. I don't know if we're fully aware of the message that's going on throughout a generation, when after years and years of asking for training and responsibility we can't offer them decent work options. I want to remind you that the norm of temporary contracts is young people. I don't know if we are fully aware of the consequences that a whole young generation is incapable of emancipating themselves, to begin living independently and independently. The youth emancipation rate is in our country's lowest history, around a dinosaur_per_cent. The young woman has to choose between emancipating herself or sharing piss forcibly, even though this does not follow her will. I don't know if we are fully aware of the difficult problem for the future of a society of normalizing a tempered trend of mental salvation that afflicts younger people. Anxiety or depression are some of the shocks that have increased exponentially and have also made suicide attempts in Catalonia by 2020, a twenty-i-set_per_cent more than in the previous year. For this reason, we have presented the message that we have presented to the Comú Podemos motion, and we have called for the creation of a campaign of awareness, awareness, formation and eradication of social stigmas respecting the mental health of young people. As a matter of fact, it's a first step in this direction that we haven't talked about. I finish, because, as I say, we have presented a statement, the Group of Common We can accept it and, therefore, we are very grateful and grateful. We also expect this predisposition on the part of your group when our proposals arrive, which, of course, we expect will be so. And we will vote in favour of this young man, we will vote in favour, in fact, of all the proposals that are always in favour of the best young man in this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.256.0	Next, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Grau has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.257.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, from Ciutadans we will vote in favour of some points of this motion, we will abstain in others and want some of us to serve to open a deep reflection on the parliamentary compromise and the importance of political seriousness in general. For example, good intentions are not enough. As Simone de Beauvoir said..., she, charged with good faith, said that gender equality would be solace when an incompetent woman could achieve a prominent place in perfect equalitys that an incompetent lord. There are many incompetent women in places of responsibility and we follow where we were. Well, focusing on the young man, let's just say first that he knows a lot about us that our goal at point 4 has been ignored. It seems to us good to ask for rigour in the analysis of the sometimes explosive ways in which the discomfort of the young people is manifested and to condemn the use of the partisan of the aldaruls. But what exactly does it mean for you to use the partyer? Let a political party think about the aldaruls or that they directly expect the young people to promote – « press! - Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, When I've tried to make it clear, our task has been left unanswered; or so, you can count that we will abstain at this point. Also in other ambiguous writings. It is not clear to us whether some points recommend a social park to logger or call for covert occupation. Nor have we just become clear as to why universal basic income has to go to about thirty per cent of people up to twenty-nine years. Who determines that this is the best criteria and why? According to your vagina modulating clarity to the length of this debate, we are modulating the volume of our abstentions and some negative vote. For example, we would not vote for the tourist tax either, but for a question of general principles. We must say, in principle, that we intend to vote in favour of more than half the points of the motion, as well as one of those that we will abstain from – point 10 – seems especially sensitive to us, especially after seeing..., well, to feel the representative of the Socialist Party speaking of making a campaign of awareness, awareness, formation, promotion of mental salvation and presenting it as a first step on a topic that has scarcely been discussed. We can't take advantage of everything we've ever done, talked and approved in this Parliament to fight for the mental salvation of our young people, to put in effective and real resources because they don't lead their lives? Yesterday, we were talking in this very same school settlement group, and I reminded them of Motion 153 of the last legislature, driven by Ciutadans, from the decaleg of the Association No to School Harassment. With pens and jobs, that program of minims was approved by consensus to effectively, transparently and professionally prevent sexual attachment and its sometimes harmful effects. Now I sleep in the cove of the righteous, and perhaps, if it's served, we shouldn't regret cases like Kira Lopez. Yesterday I didn't have time to detail what this young man says, because here, if you don't say "Spain, poop, and cut the micro quick; but, well, today I would like to take advantage of the time I have left. He's coming for you, Kira. And say this motion, among other things: to provide official data on school attendance, such as the number of victims, the number of protocols that occur, the result that was obtained, with the necessary derivations to the health centres; to make visible the problem of school attendance as a first step to put it; to include the treatment of school attendance in the centre projects and in the tutorial plans; to incorporate emotional education, emotional and sexual education during all compulsory education, from the children's stage, to help avoid situations of masculistic and seating violence; to promote teacher training in the prevention of school attendance; to provide school centres with prevention plans for school attendance, to create school attendance, to create school attendance, to create a school curriculum. All this is already done, it's already approved, and it would just be good to go through with it, put it into practice. Already put, also the recommendation that, before spending innovative fulls on the prevention of suicide, make memory of another motion approved the last legislature, concretely number 122, presented for the student deputy of Ciutadans Blanca Navarro. There's all the more we can talk about suicide plans now; I don't want to innovate. I would also like to ask you to use my last words to ask all groups whether they vote or not to vote on this motion, which, if we really care about the state of our young people and our children, we ask for information on whether it is true, as the newspaper El Mundo reported yesterday, that Catalan health is leading to children suffering from cancer in Switzerland, Germany, Italy..., finally, to the fifth pine tree, before Madrid, with the extra cost this entails for families. What else is going to happen, if that's true, why are we putting the piles between all folds? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.258.0	Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Ms. Judith Toronjo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.259.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, today we pose a question as important as the motion on the situation of young women in our country. A question raised two weeks ago by Mrs Gonzalez, but in addition to the teamwork of many of the young Members of this House with the National Council of Youth of Catalonia, I have had the opportunity to participate actively and, in this case, from youth association to the JNC, in many fights shared for the young people of our country. In fact, the young collection will not surprise anyone that we are one of the most affected by the difficulties of the context. Some difficulties that we are already facing from the 2008 financial crisis and which have been exacerbated by this health crisis, this economic and social crisis, with structural inequalities at the level of occupation, emancipation, training, mobility, reading, culture, and from a large etc. I also love myself in mental health, which often remains invisible, often remains stigmatized by many. For example, the overwhelming data of belonging to a state that places young people in thirty-three per cent of the time, have reached the top of Europe of more than forty per cent; the temporality, of course, also of contracts between young people; the increase in the outpouring of the poor, or the rise of the youthful suicide, which rises to 198 per cent among young people in our country up to the age of three. Worrying. From Juntas per Catalunya we are aware of this context, and for this reason we want to work together with the Department of Social Rights to guarantee a future of progress, a future of opportunities, a future of guarantees for the new generations. And, in this sense, we have granted a series of papers in the joint work with the Republican Left and accepted by the Parliamentary Group of Common We can. I won't have time to comment on all of them, but, if not, the most important ones, which I think I have to put in full. In the first place – it has been mentioned – we share this need to celebrate, once and for all, a monographic ple of young people with urgency during this political course; a proposal that, in fact, we have already presented no more or less than the 17th May in the government agreement between Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana. So let us celebrate the addition of the rest of parliamentary formations. But, in addition, a monogramme ple that must not interfere with the celebration of the Youth Congress, which is currently the only space, is the only participatory process where all young people in the country and all the entities can work, and which obviously has to bring to a new national youth plan and to the internal reflection and dues that we have from this chamber of the new youth law this legislature. For another group, we also share the need, such as the expansion of resources in youth policies, the drug plan, addictions, mental health, the anti-youth plan, which yesterday presented the appropriate counselor and which will benefit 25,000 young people, the creation of a centralized base with work practices, the stake for housing policies, access to emancipation, with these European foundations, with 20_million euros from the Next Generation and 140_million euros in promotion of social housing also for young people, with the gradual increase in the length of the legislature or, among other proposals, the enhancements in mobility and, of course, the T-Youth, so demanded for youth association, so as to arrive until the thirtieth anniversary, which implies at least one of the successes of the previous generation. Only, as we have commented with Mrs González, will we reject the point, paragraph 15– so, I am already making progress to the President – regarding the creation of a tourist tax to allocate it to emancipation. We ask for the separate vote because, bearing in mind that this fund could only be used for tourism policies as the tax category different from the tax category, we consider, therefore, that it must be worked and that we should be able to do so in the framework of the Single European Act or also in the Committee on Youth. And finally, as you see, before the immobilism of many, let us celebrate that today there is a consensus of the chamber, a consensus by the parliamentary forces and that it is a part of the government's action, a part of the investment agreement, because from Junts we are very clear: this must be the legislature that places all young people at the centre of public policies, this must be the legislature that places young people at the centre of the parliamentary debate, at the centre of the political agenda, at the height of repression, at the height of stigma, at the top of labels. Because a country of opportunity is a country of tomorrow for our young people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.260.0	I, finally, in the block of defense of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, the deputy Mrs Alba Camps.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.261.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, good afternoon. The young people of this country – and they are, at least, two generations – have made resignation their lowest common denominator for a social, economic and political context. To deny it is to deny the reality of a young woman who, least of all since 2008, has made a great deal of economic and social crises, and some live in a limited situation, without a job perspective, with difficulty or impossibility, in fact, to emancipate themselves, pending from an uncertain future, in the full regression of democratic, civil and political rights. And here, in addition, there is a global pandemic, a social and family alliance hard at a stage of complicated personal development. I repeat from here what has already been said by some company or company that preceded me. If Catalonia has been able to control the pandemic, it is also thanks to the young people of this country and their efforts. Resilience, empathy and sacrifice were three of the adjectives that defined them. Not all of them did, it's true, but not all of the adults did it in an exemplary way, we're not still illusory. And precisely because of this we cannot fail them now in this public recognition, in being empathetic and in being understood. Above all, because the impact of the pandemic on the emotional level has been analyzed with adult centerism, as well as the importance of the loss of social contact and the importance of the own space. We've seen the mass as if it were responsible for the pandemic's pain, and that's not fair. We do not lose sight of the fact that the young people's pandemic situation has names and surnames, and also figures, which, as in adults, have a direct impact on individual and collective mental health. To give some data, the Hospital Sant Joan de Deu has reached forty-sep_per_cent more mental health emergencies in the first quarter of 2021. The pandemic has multiplied food disruptions among young people by three times, according to the Association Against Anorexia and Bulimia. They're real data. We have to listen to them, be there for them and for them, be more empathetic than ever. We know – and we know it firsthand – that the way to keep young people from failing is to equip them with political and economic sovereignty so that they can claim a worthy future, regardless of where they come from and where they go. But we also know we can't have it, so we can't have it tomorrow. It can generate new dynamics of participation in the decision-making process that directly affect them. We get out of this paternalistic view, we get out of this childish view of the young people of this country, and, above all, we are consistent. We can't interpret them as a problem and then hold them accountable for the future of everyone. This brings us to the huge need to write the following chapter. A chapter that has to bring us political initiations that shake this decadent situation. Measures such as the recent approval by the Generalitat of an item with EUR 216_million in active employment policies specifically targeted at young people. Because it's not about protecting, it's about recognizing, it's about empowering a young woman who's already a citizen today. Congresswoman Grau is asking, isn't she? , why did thirty_per_cent specifically require universal basic income for the youth collection. So the answer is because it's the age group that took the situation the most in the past few days. It is said to combat discrimination through public policies. We welcome, therefore, the acceptance of our views – we celebrate it, from the Republican Left Group – and, therefore, we will vote in favour of most of the points of this motion. We just want to do it at a point, which is point 1, that the answer is, from the Republican Left, if I round to the young man's monogram; so, if I round to point 1 of this young man. In fact, we have already jointly registered the petition with other parliamentary groups, so a while ago. Even so, we believe that you have been better able to match the monogram ple with the Youth Congress that is planned for the next 2022, which is where politics really needs to be defined in terms of youth of the next years. Because when we talk about empowering young people in this country, we talk about making decisions about their future. MPs and MPs, in short, do not deceive each other, the conditions of precariousness as a young person are constantly reddened and become structural in the long run of life. There's masculinism, there's racism, there's edatism, and there's a long way to go, and most of the cases are shown at the time. We have many examples, unfortunately. These lines of discrimination represent for the Republican Left everything that can be fought from the Parliament, from the institutions and also from the street. Young people already have the speech; young people have opinions, and they also have a strategy to follow. In the end they only occupy the space to right the neighbor. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.262.0	And now to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.263.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone, ladies and gentlemen. I'm happy to come up to this rostrum today and talk about the problems, aren't I? , which concern young people, because the truth is that the situation of young people in Catalonia is, frankly, dramatic. It is urgent to alleviate the effects of socialist and separatist policies that have led Catalonia to lead the lists of unemployment and youth insecurity. And it is that, at the moment, we already rozato forty_per_cent of young people without work in Catalonia. A figure that is far above the European average. What I regret is that the motion we are debating and voting on today is, therefore, a whirlwind of confused ideas and biased ideological concepts. You are demonstrating once again that you do not care about the prosperity of young people, but only to promote once again their ideological delusions. From the VOX Parliamentary Group, as it cannot be otherwise, we agree and will support any measures aimed at alleviating the effects that restrictions on freedoms imposed by the illegal state of alarm have had on young people. An illegal state of alarm, by the way, that has dried up our freedoms, and that many of the groups here voted in favour, and thanks to VOX's appeal was declared illegal. Young people are experiencing difficulties, great difficulties, and in this line we believe that we must work for the problems of addictions and for the problems of mental health, which in many cases end up leading to suicide; a cause, a problem that already stands as the first cause of death among young people in Catalonia, above even traffic accidents. We also believe that it is vital to promote policies that help young people to emancipate themselves, to be able to carry out their life plan and to create the right conditions for them to establish their family as well. And that goes by expanding the public housing park and facilitating its access to young Spaniards, instead of coercing the owners with totalitarian impositions, which in the end is a reduction in supply. Helping young people goes by reversing their policies, which are destroying our economy, causing the loss of thousands of jobs and many young people who have been forced to emigrate to third countries in the European Union because they did not find their jobs they were looking for here at home. We must all strive to get talent back home. It also reverses its ecological policies, which far from protecting the environment, what they do is ruin the rural world and make it increasingly difficult for the generation to take over, forcing many young people to leave their villages behind and emigrate to the big cities. Those of us who are concerned about issues such as extreme youth unemployment are outraged that their only concern is to take advantage of these important issues to impose their ideology. Unworthy to see how, under the slogan of encouraging youth associationism, they claim to be watered with public money ateneos and radical left screen associations, the self-managed groups of young people, as you call them, who, in short, are already known to us all, the Arran quemacoches, the universities of the SEPC. We've got these faces all over the place. In short, his project for young people is based on raising taxes and imposing a new tourist rate, watering with public money the screen associations of the radical left, and launching a universal paycheck that, in addition to increasing the deficit, only seeks to buy four votes at the cost of ruining the rest. But in the face of its sectarian and irresponsible project, from VOX we reaffirm ourselves as the patriotic and social alternative of the young people of Spain. Young people must be offered an alternative to the future that will truly bet on youth, freedom and opportunities. Because unlike you, we are not moved by a partisan project. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] We are not moved by a partisan project, of course; what moves us is a sincere commitment... [[Greetings.]] Give it up, thank you. To us does not move a partisan project, to us what moves us is a sincere commitment to the homeland, freedom and true social justice. [[The remorse of the voice persists. Greetings.]] Thank you very much. And that's because while the left wants to turn young people into ninis and buy their vote with paguitas, we will continue to bet on the value of our young people, we will continue to bet on opportunities, on housing and on the family as the central pillar of our nation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.264.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word Mrs Basha Change's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.265.0	Thank you, President. Well, we have seen a great deal of need also for this motion on the situation of young people, because we have already been dealing with this issue for weeks now; in fact, Mrs Jess, from the Parliamentary Group of the Common People's Party, has also mentioned, at the request of the Single European Act, that we have entered various parliamentary groups in the Chamber, in order to coincide in the urgency of the approach to these questions. To point out that it is certain that there was an extensive debate on the date of this monographic plenary, and we gather the petition of the youth civil society that motivated us to make this petition of the monographic plenary, to do it as soon as possible, in this case, before the year ended. To highlight from the proposal various questions that we find positive, that if it is true that in view of what we consider to be courageous and transformative policies is very short, we will support it because we consider it to be very small, no? , the young lady; but fine, go ahead. We believe that it is positive, above all, because of the part that has been spoken to a lot today: the condemnation, stigmatization and criminalization of the young man organized. Obviously, we consider organized youth to be the foundational pillar of the future of this country, and without this organized and self-managed youth, so little can be done. So, we find this part very positive. Incorporating the youth's voice into the oci model, specifically the octurnal one, with all the attacks that are having the issue of the bottles and the alternate oci, we also believe that it is essential, as you see, let's say, mainly affected by the problem. And I will not be much more because the question of mental salvation has been dealt with in various interventions. What I would like to do more extensively is to mention the shortcomings that this young man has for us. For a gang, general rape. Yes, it is true that the question of mental salvation, the question of drugs and the approach to be taken is mentioned enough; with the thought that we have presented the governing groups has improved and concreted. But when we have four_percent of lower-twenty-one-year-old gender-based violence deaths; a manifestation of gender-based violence in the specific digital environment and in social networks, with mechanisms that escape from the protocols that are currently being used; an increase of one-hundred_percent of suicide attempts; an increase from the year 2020 in the incidences and demands attached to the call for attention, 016. Of the 1,628 tricks, 603 were of less than twenty-one years old. Therefore, we have a very difficult problem of gender-based violence in the youth sector. And mainly this problem is fueled by denials and by the lack of perception of young people and young people as victims or as aggressors. It is something that they do not detect, at what point these dynamics are beginning to be produced, and, therefore, all possible resources need to be put in place to identify these issues in a way..., adapting the language of communication, adapting the communication channels, and adapting all these resources to the interlocutor, in this case to young people younger than twenty-one years. We value models like the Barnahus that is in Tarragona, which is a service let's say, of complete coordination for all affected people, understand victims of juvenile violence as childhood and adolescence, and need to protect themselves specifically. And it is one of the questions that we understand that in a monographic ple can be filled in depth, that between the Youth Commission they can also fill in depth, and in this National Youth Council, so they can also fill in. Simply put the proposal into value. It is true that it is necessary to do so as soon as possible better, but we cannot leave behind, in any case, the treatment of gender-based violence in this age group, because among all the issues that have been mentioned today, which are specifically important, we see that many parliamentary groups have also failed to mention this issue that we consider appropriate. We shall therefore vote in favour. And we hope to continue working among all available spaces Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.266.0	On behalf of the Group Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.267.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, we're going to vote yes to many of the points in this motion of... well, of this motion. It is true that we find it unambitious. The truth is that we lack a little more concrete proposals, I do not know why they are waiting for this monographic plenary, which is one of the points that we are going to vote for, although I tell you that it is not the first monographic youth plenary to be held in this Parliament. I would like to recall the first monographic plenary session on youth which was held, because if I remember correctly, it has already been three legislatures, which do not amount to twelve years, because here we already know what the legislatures are going on. I think it was in 2013, if I'm not mistaken. And if we look back and look at the demands that have already been made at that time, many of them also collected by some of the associations that have also promoted this plenary today, as they coincide. The situation is practically the same or even worse, if we talk about issues of occupation, if we talk about education, etc.. I would even say, I insist, that it is not that we are the same, but that we are even worse. Therefore, if we are to hold this monographic plenary, which seems to be yes – a little for the speeches we have heard here, it seems that there is going to be consensus – I ask the Government to then implement these proposals, to listen to that mandate of Parliament, because it seems that some mandates are more priority than others. And, therefore, we will see the effectiveness of that monographic plenary session. I am telling you that it is not going to stay for us and we are going to vote in favour of this proposal. They talk too..., there are some points with which we disagree. For example, at paragraph four of this motion, you speak of what..., says here "that which has been described as the expression of the discomfort of young people. I do not know exactly what they mean, if it is you who have the monopoly to express what the discomfort of young people means. They speak specifically, for example, of what comes from the situation of precariousness and lack of positive expectations, of disappointment with the political decisions that affect your future... Man, the truth is that, to me, coming from the group of the commons, that you hold the portfolio of Work in the Government of Spain, what do you want me to say? What do you want me to say? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's just that Spain is the country with... I would ask you, please, Mr. Cid, to respect my turn as I respect yours, if you don't mind. I understand that they do not like the data, but it is that Spain is the country – it is the country – with the highest rate of youth unemployment in the OECD. You're responsible for the work portfolio. Therefore, if it is true that the issue of unemployment, which I do not doubt, is obviously creating frustration in young people, which is so, then do something. More than coming here to bring, I insist, points which are, therefore, a little toast to the sun and which make absolutely nothing concrete. I believe that you have the full competence to take action in this regard. So, at this point, I... honestly, we're not going to give support. There are others who do. For example, the one who talks about the subject of transferring this commission to the Conseil de l'Audiovisual de Catalunya for the image projected from young people; we agree. It is true that, especially in recent times of the pandemic, there has been an attempt to stigmatize the youth collective, especially as a result of the closure of night leisure. We don't agree. Obviously, young people need alternatives. Some of them are asked in this motion and are points that we are going to support as well. It is clear that nighttime leisure has been closed and, therefore, other alternatives must be given and not simply be left to criticism and to point out and stigmatize young people. I think we all remember our youth age and being locked up at home seems to me that it is not a viable option for the youth collective and, above all, I insist, after the pandemic. You also talk about mental health issues. It is true that there has been an increase in mental health problems. We were already dragging problems in this direction. We are talking about the very high rate of youth suicide, a subject that we are also concerned about. Therefore, whatever it is to give more resources to these issues, we will, of course, vote in favour. Also the issue of food disorders. We haven't talked about this in a while, and maybe we should go a little deeper. I hope that we can take advantage of this monographic plenary to also talk about the shortcomings we have in the health system with what disorders. Then you talk, for example, about housing issues, about the difficulty of access to housing. We agree. So much so that one of the proposals we put forward in the general policy debate was precisely to request further deductions from the IRPF for the rental of children under thirty-five years of age. It is an issue that we are concerned about and that, I insist, we have made a flag on this issue. The public housing stock should also be increased. Not only can we say that there is no housing, it costs access when there is no public housing. And to finish, then, I insist, I think there are things that we've been dragging for a long time. I ask the government to put the batteries in this direction. And, above all, one last point, the tourist rate. Man, more taxes, no. Let's get out of somewhere else, but no more taxes, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.268.0	Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.269.0	Thank you, President. It is worrying, sometimes, when there is so much consensus on one subject in this Parliament. We see how from the right, who has not endured the laughter and everything in his speech – the extreme right – to the left, we have gathered all, all the proposal, with enough breadth..., enough breadth, so to speak. But that's the same thing with the poor child; that's the same thing with the dead at the residences. Because it's too bad to say that we don't have any consent to respect the poor child or the dead to the residences or to the youth emancipation or to the precariousness of the young person in general. Let's just hope this young man didn't play dumb. We hope that the Ple that will be held effectively will bring a premise, too, that I accompany concrete policies that ultimately change the economic model, the model of employment insertion, the diversity of our young man, and that actually involve a change for the young man of this country. That's fast. Talk about aldarulls, of course he can talk. In fact, this House has seemed like a specific plethora of security; or else, it has been talked about a lot. Then, of course, we need to talk; just don't buy Ciutadans's visit. To the government parties. We have entered this proposal jointly with the CUP and the Socialist Party. What we did not share was that the institutional logic of the Youth Council – and this discussion has already touched it – had to condition the date of the specific Ple. The comment made by the MP of the CUP... the rape report from Save the Children came out a long time ago. We obviously share this view of genera's rapes. We would have appreciated some of the items that we have not rejected on the part of the group. In any case, we take advantage of this consensus to get us to work, because the young man in this country needs victories and does not just need words, and we are still in time to give the answer that the young man in Catalonia needs. Many thanks, and thanks for the vote in favour of all the groups that will raise this motion. [[Greetings. Joan Garriga Doménech asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.270.0	Yes, Mr. Garriga?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.271.0	Separate vote. It could be together l'1, the 6, the 7, the 8, the 9, the 12, the 14, the 16 and the 17. I the 2, the 10, the 13. I, for another band, could be together 3, 4, 5, 11 and 15. Thank you. [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.272.0	Mrs. Roldán?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.273.0	Yes, President. Maybe I'll complicate it a little more, but we'd call a separate vote on the 4th and 15th, which these could go together. I don't know if...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.274.0	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.275.0	Okay. So 4 and 15, and number 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.276.0	And number three. Any more petitions?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.277.0	We would call for a separate vote on point 15. And, on the other hand, we asked for a separate vote from the following points, which would be able to vote in bloc by our side, which are set at 4, 6, 10, 14 and 17.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-21-1503.278.0	Okay, four, six, 10, 14 and 17. [[Long break.]] We're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're... We will now vote points 1, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12 and 16. The vote begins. These points received 121 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point number 2_has received 132 votes in favour. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has received 119 votes in favour, 11 against and 2 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has received 113 votes in favour, 13 against and 6 abstentions. We're voting points 5 and 11 together now. The vote begins. These points received 121 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting points 6, 14 and 17. The vote begins. These points received 115 votes in favour and 17 abstentions. We're voting point number 13 now. The vote begins. Point 13_has received 132 votes in favour. And finally, we vote on point 15. The vote begins. Point 15_has received 18 votes in favour and 114 votes against. Therefore, when this vote is over, the sitting is adjourned. Thank you very much.
